---

title: 4-substituted pyridin-3-yl-carboxamide compounds and methods of use
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08435976&OS=08435976&RS=08435976
owner: F. Hoffmann-La Roche
number: 08435976
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100908
---
This non provisional application filed under 37 CFR 1.53 b claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 240 474 filed on 8 Sep. 2009 which is incorporated by reference in entirety

The invention relates to 4 substituted N pyridin 3 yl carboxamides of formula I which are useful as kinase inhibitors more specifically useful as Pim kinase Pim 1 Pim 2 and or Pim 3 inhibitors thus useful as cancer therapeutics. The invention also relates to compositions more specifically pharmaceutical compositions comprising these compounds and methods of using the same either alone or in combination to treat various forms of cancer and hyperproliferative disorders as well as methods of using the compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells or associated pathological conditions.

Pim kinases are family of three highly related serine and threonine protein kinases encoded by the genes Pim 1 Pim 2 and Pim 3. The gene names are derived from seminal experiments by Anton Berns et al. seeking oncogenes causing lymphoma and the names are derived from the phrase Proviral Insertion Moloney as they were discovered as frequent integration sites for murine moloney virus wherein the insertions lead to overexpression of Pim s and either de novo T cell lymphomas or dramatic acceleration of tumorigenesis in a transgenic Myc driven lymphoma model revealing not only a strong synergy with the oncogene c Myc but also a functional redundancy among Pim kinase family members and suggesting that inhibition of the Pim s may have therapeutic benefit. Cuypers et al 1984 Cell vol. 37 1 pp. 141 50 Selten et al 1985 EMBO J vol. 4 7 pp. 1793 8 van der Lugt et al 1995 EMBO J vol. 14 11 pp. 2536 44 Mikkers et al 2002 Nature Genetics vol. 32 1 pp. 153 9 van Lohuizen et al 1991 Cell vol. 65 5 pp. 737 52 .

Mouse genetics suggest that antagonizing Pim kinases should have an acceptable safety profile a Pim 1 Pim 2 Pim 3 mouse knockout is viable although slightly smaller than wild type littermates Mikkers et al 2004 Mol Cell Biol vol. 24 13 pp. 6104 154 . The three genes give rise to six protein isoforms that are little more than a protein kinase domain. In particular they are without recognizable regulatory domains. All six isoforms are constitutively active protein kinases that do not require post translational modification for activity thus Pim kinases are regulated primarily at the transcriptional level Qian et al 2005 J Biol Chem vol. 280 7 pp. 6130 7 . Pim kinase expression is highly inducible by cytokines and growth factors receptors and Pim s are direct transcriptional targets of the Stat proteins including Stat3 and Stat5. Pim 1 for example is required for the gp130 mediated Stat3 proliferation signal Aksoy et al 2007 Stem Cells vol. 25 12 pp. 2996 3004 Hirano et al 2000 Oncogene vol. 19 21 pp. 2548 56 Shirogane et al 1999 Immunity vol. 11 6 pp. 709 19 .

Pim kinases have been shown to function in cellular proliferation and survival pathways parallel to the PI3K Akt mTOR signaling axis Hammerman et al 2005 Blood vol. 105 11 pp. 4477 83 . Indeed several of the phosphorylation targets of the PI3k axis including Bad and eIF4E BP1 are cell growth and apoptosis regulators and are also phosphorylation targets of the Pim kinases Fox et al 2003 Genes Dev vol. 17 15 pp. 1841 54 Macdonald et al 2006 Cell Biol vol. 7 pp. 1 . Pim 1 kinase promotes inactivation of the pro apoptotic Bad protein by phosphorylating it on the Ser112 gatekeeper site suggesting a role for the Pim kinase in cell survival since phosphorylation of Bad increases Bcl 2 activity and therefore promotes cell survival Aho et al BMC FEBS Letters 2004 vol. 571 1 3 pp. 43 9 Tamburini et al 2009 Blood vol. 114 8 pp. 1618 27 . Likewise phosphorylation of eIF4E BP1 by mTOR or Pim kinases causes depression of eIF4E promoting mRNA translation and cellular growth. In addition Pim 1 has been recognized to promote cell cycle progression through phosphorylation of CDC25A p21 and Cdc25C Mochizuki et al 1999 J Biol Chem vol. 274 26 pp. 18659 66 Bachmann et al 2006 Int J Biochem Cell Biol vol. 38 3 pp. 430 43 Wang et al 2002 Biochim Biophys Acta vol. 1593 1 pp. 45 55 .

Pim kinases have been implicated in multiple human oncology indications. Pim kinases show strong synergy in transgenic mouse models with c Myc driven and Akt driven tumors Verbeek et al 1991 Mol Cell Biol vol. 11 2 pp. 1176 9 Allen et al 1997 Oncogene vol. 15 10 pp. 1133 41 Hammerman et al 2005 Blood vol. 105 11 pp. 4477 83 . Pim Kinases are required for the transforming activity of oncogenes identified in acute myeloid leukemia AML including Flt3 ITD BCR ab1 and Tel Jak2. Expression of these oncogenes in BaF3 cells results in strong upregulation of Pim 1 and Pim 2 expression resulting in IL 3 independent growth and subsequent pim inhibition results in apoptosis and cell growth arrest Adam et al 2006 Cancer Research vol. 66 7 pp. 3828 35 . Pim overexpression and dysregulation has also been noted as a frequent event in many hematopoetic cancers including leukemias and lymphoma Amson et al 1989 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA vol. 86 22 pp. 8857 61 Cohen et al 2004 Leuk Lymphoma vol. 45 5 pp. 951 5 H ttmann et al 2006 Leukemia vol. 20 10 pp. 1774 82 as well as multiple myeloma Claudio et al 2002 Blood vol. 100 6 pp. 2175 86 .

In prostate cancer Pim 1 has been shown to be overexpressed and correlated to disease progression Cibull et al 2006 J Clin Pathol vol. 59 3 pp. 285 8 Dhanasekaran et al 2001 Nature vol. 412 6849 pp. 822 6 . Pim 1 expression increases with disease progression in mouse models of prostate cancer progression Kim et al 2002 Proc Natl Acad Sci USA vol. 99 5 pp. 2884 9 . Pim 1 has been reported to be the most highly overexpressed mRNA in the subset of human prostate tumor samples which have a c Myc driven gene signature Ellwood Yen et al 2003 Cancer Cell vol. 4 3 pp. 223 38 . Pim 3 has been also been shown to be overexpressed and to have a functional role in pancreatic cancer and Hepatocellular Carcinoma Li et al. 2006 Cancer Research vol. 66 13 pp. 6741 7 Fujii et al 2005 Int J Cancer vol. 114 2 pp. 209 18 .

Therefore multiple lines of evidence exist to support the possible therapeutic value of Pim kinase inhibition in oncology. Beyond these applications Pim kinases could play an important role in normal immune system function and Pim inhibition could be therapeutic for a number of different immunologic pathologies including inflammation autoimmune conditions allergy and immune suppression for organ transplantation Aho et al 2005 Immunology vol. 116 1 pp. 82 8 .

The invention relates generally to 4 substituted N pyridin 3 yl carboxamides of formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof with Pim kinase Pim 1 Pim 2 and or Pim 3 inhibitory activity. The compounds of the present invention are useful as inhibitors of Pim kinase. Accordingly the compounds of the invention and compositions thereof are useful in the treatment of hyperproliferative disorders such as cancer.

The present invention includes a composition for example a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition for example a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic agent. The present compositions are therefore useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal for example human such as cancer.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder in a mammal for example human such as cancer comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions. The compositions and methods of the invention may be useful in the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy such as non Hodgkin s lymphoma diffuse large hematopoietic lymphoma follicular lymphoma mantle cell lymphoma chronic lymphocytic leukemia multiple myeloma AML and MCL. The compositions may inhibit tumor growth in mammals and may be useful for treating human cancer patients.

In one aspect the invention includes a method for the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy comprising administering a therapeutic combination as a combined formulation or by alternation to a mammal wherein the therapeutic combination comprises a therapeutically effective amount of a compound having formula I II III IV and or V and a therapeutically effective amount of a chemotherapeutic agent selected from a PI3K inhibitor such as 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine US 2008 0076768 U.S. Pat. No. 7 750 002 Folkes et al 2008 Jour. of Med. Chem. 51 18 5522 5532 also known as GDC 0941 Genentech Inc. and having Formula A or S 1 4 2 2 aminopyrimidin 5 yl 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one US 2008 0242665 having Formula B.

Reference will now be made in detail to certain embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying structures and formulas. While the invention will be described in conjunction with the enumerated embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to those embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover all alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the scope of the present invention as defined by the claims. One skilled in the art will recognize many methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein which could be used in the practice of the present invention. The present invention is in no way limited to the methods and materials described. In the event that one or more of the incorporated literature patents and similar materials differs from or contradicts this application including but not limited to defined terms term usage described techniques or the like this application controls.

The term alkyl as used herein refers to a saturated linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of one to twelve carbon atoms. Examples of alkyl groups include but are not limited to methyl Me CH ethyl Et CHCH 1 propyl n Pr n propyl CHCHCH 2 propyl i Pr i propyl CH CH 1 butyl n Bu n butyl CHCHCHCH 2 methyl 1 propyl 1 Bu i butyl CHCH CH 2 butyl s Bu s butyl CH CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 propyl t Bu t butyl C CH 1 pentyl n pentyl CHCHCHCHCH 2 pentyl CH CH CHCHCH 3 pentyl CH CHCH 2 methyl 2 butyl C CH CHCH 3 methyl 2 butyl CH CH CH CH 3 methyl 1 butyl CHCHCH CH 2 methyl 1 butyl CHCH CH CHCH 1 hexyl CHCHCHCHCHCH 2 hexyl CH CH CHCHCHCH 3 hexyl CH CHCH CHCHCH 2 methyl 2 pentyl C CH CHCHCH 3 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CH CH CHCH 4 methyl 2 pentyl CH CH CHCH CH 3 methyl 3 pentyl C CH CHCH 2 methyl 3 pentyl CH CHCH CH CH 2 3 dimethyl 2 butyl C CH CH CH 3 3 dimethyl 2 butyl CH CH C CH 1 heptyl 1 octyl and the like.

The term alkenyl refers to linear or branched chain monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon spdouble bond wherein the alkenyl radical includes radicals having cis and trans orientations or alternatively E and Z orientations. Examples include but are not limited to ethylenyl or vinyl CH CH allyl CHCH CH and the like.

The term alkynyl refers to a linear or branched monovalent hydrocarbon radical of two to twelve carbon atoms with at least one site of unsaturation i.e. a carbon carbon sp triple bond. Examples include but are not limited to ethynyl C CH propynyl propargyl CHC CH and the like.

The term cycloalkyl refers to a monovalent non aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated ring having 3 to 12 carbon atoms as a monocyclic ring or 6 to 12 carbon atoms as a bicyclic ring. Bicyclic carbocycles having 6 to 12 atoms can be arranged for example as a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system and bicyclic carbocycles having 9 or 10 ring atoms can be arranged as a bicyclo 5 6 or 6 6 system or as bridged systems such as bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane and bicyclo 3.2.2 nonane. Examples of monocyclic carbocycles include but are not limited to cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl 1 cyclopent 1 enyl 1 cyclopent 2 enyl 1 cyclopent 3 enyl cyclohexyl 1 cyclohex 1 enyl 1 cyclohex 2 enyl 1 cyclohex 3 enyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptyl cyclooctyl cyclononyl cyclodecyl cycloundecyl cyclododecyl and the like.

 Aryl means a monovalent aromatic hydrocarbon radical of 6 14 carbon atoms derived by the removal of one hydrogen atom from a single carbon atom of a parent aromatic ring system. Some aryl groups are represented in the exemplary structures as Ar . Aryl includes bicyclic radicals comprising an aromatic ring fused to a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Typical aryl groups include but are not limited to radicals derived from benzene phenyl substituted benzenes naphthalene anthracene indenyl indanyl 1 2 dihydronaphthalene 1 2 3 4 tetrahydronaphthyl and the like.

The terms heterocycle heterocyclyl and heterocyclic ring are used interchangeably herein and refer to a saturated or a partially unsaturated i.e. having one or more double bonds within the ring carbocyclic radical of 3 to 14 ring atoms in which at least one ring atom is a heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the remaining ring atoms being C where one or more ring atoms is optionally substituted independently with one or more substituents described below. A heterocycle may be a monocycle having 3 to 7 ring members 2 to 6 carbon atoms and 1 to 4 heteroatoms selected from N O and S or a bicycle having 6 to 10 ring members 4 to 9 carbon atoms and 1 to 6 heteroatoms selected from N O and S for example a bicyclo 4 5 5 5 5 6 or 6 6 system or a bridged 2.1.1 2.2.1 2.2.2 or 3.2.2 system. Heterocycles are described in Paquette Leo A. Principles of Modern Heterocyclic Chemistry W. A. Benjamin New York 1968 particularly Chapters 1 3 4 6 7 and 9 The Chemistry of Heterocyclic Compounds A series of Monographs John Wiley Sons New York 1950 to present in particular Volumes 13 14 16 19 and 28 and J. Am. Chem. Soc. 1960 82 5566. Heterocyclyl also includes radicals where heterocycle radicals are fused with a saturated partially unsaturated ring or aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. Examples of heterocyclic rings include but are not limited to pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl dihydrofuranyl tetrahydrothienyl tetrahydropyranyl dihydropyranyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl piperidinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl thioxanyl piperazinyl homopiperazinyl azetidinyl oxetanyl thietanyl homopiperidinyl oxepanyl thiepanyl oxazepinyl diazepinyl thiazepinyl 2 pyrrolinyl 3 pyrrolinyl indolinyl 2H pyranyl 4H pyranyl dioxanyl 1 3 dioxolanyl pyrazolinyl dithianyl dithiolanyl dihydropyranyl dihydrothienyl pyrazolidinylimidazolinyl imidazolidinyl 3 azabicyco 3.1.0 hexanyl 3 azabicyclo 4.1.0 heptanyl and azabicyclo 2.2.2 hexanyl. Spiro moieties are also included within the scope of this definition. Examples of a heterocyclic group wherein ring atoms are substituted with oxo O moieties are pyrimidinonyl and 1 1 dioxo thiomorpholinyl.

The term heteroaryl refers to a monovalent aromatic radical of 5 or 6 membered rings and includes fused ring systems at least one of which is aromatic of 5 16 atoms containing one or more heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur. Examples of heteroaryl groups are pyridinyl including for example 2 hydroxypyridinyl imidazolyl imidazopyridinyl pyrimidinyl including for example 4 hydroxypyrimidinyl pyrazolyl triazolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl furyl thienyl isoxazolyl thiazolyl oxazolyl isothiazolyl pyrrolyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl indolyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl cinnolinyl indazolyl indolizinyl phthalazinyl pyridazinyl triazinyl isoindolyl pteridinyl purinyl oxadiazolyl triazolyl thiadiazolyl furazanyl benzofurazanyl benzothiophenyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl quinazolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl and furopyridinyl.

The heterocycle or heteroaryl groups may be carbon carbon linked or nitrogen nitrogen linked attached where such is possible. By way of example and not limitation carbon bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 2 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridine position 3 4 5 or 6 of a pyridazine position 2 4 5 or 6 of a pyrimidine position 2 3 5 or 6 of a pyrazine position 2 3 4 or 5 of a furan tetrahydrofuran thiophene tetrahydrothiophene pyrrole or pyrrolidine position 2 4 or 5 of an oxazole imidazole or thiazole position 3 4 or 5 of an isoxazole pyrazole or isothiazole position 2 or 3 of an aziridine position 2 3 or 4 of an azetidine position 2 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of a quinoline or position 1 3 4 5 6 7 or 8 of an isoquinoline.

By way of example and not limitation nitrogen bonded heterocycles or heteroaryls are bonded at position 1 of an aziridine azetidine pyrrole pyrrolidine 2 pyrroline 3 pyrroline imidazole imidazolidine 2 imidazoline 3 imidazoline pyrazole pyrazoline 2 pyrazoline 3 pyrazoline piperidine piperazine indole indoline 1H indazole 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine or 4 oxo 1 4 dihydropyridine position 2 of a isoindole or isoindoline position 4 of a morpholine and position 9 of a carbazole or carboline.

The term halo refers to F Cl Br or I. The heteroatoms present in heteroaryl or heterocyclyl include the oxidized forms such as N O S O and S O .

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug may reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms abnormal cell growth and hyperproliferative disorder are used interchangeably in this application. Abnormal cell growth as used herein unless otherwise indicated refers to cell growth that is independent of normal regulatory mechanisms. This includes for example the abnormal growth of 1 tumor cells tumors that proliferate by expressing a mutated tyrosine kinase or overexpression of a receptor tyrosine kinase 2 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant tyrosine kinase activation occurs 3 any tumors that proliferate by receptor tyrosine kinases 4 any tumors that proliferate by aberrant serine threonine kinase activation and 5 benign and malignant cells of other proliferative diseases in which aberrant serine threonine kinase activation occurs.

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Tumors include solid and liquid tumors. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma myeloma and hematopoietic malignancies including leukemia and lymphoid. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer for example epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer malignant brain tumors melanoma endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma head and neck cancer acute myelogenous leukemia AML chronic myelogenous leukemia CML acute lymphoblastic leukemia ALL chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL T cell lymphoma and B cell lymphoma including all of the B cell lymphoma subtypes including but not limited to follicular lymphoma FL diffuse large B cell lymphoma DLBCL marginal zone lymphoma MZ mucosal associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma MALT mantle cell lymphoma MCL other less frequent subtypes of lymphoma and plasma cell disorders including multiple myeloma MM and Waldenstrom s macroglobulinemia.

A subject or mammal is successfully treated for a hematopoietic malignancy such as non Hodgkin s lymphoma if after receiving a therapeutic amount of the therapeutic combination according to the methods of the invention the patient shows one or more of i observable and or measurable reduction in the number of cancer cells or absence of the cancer cells ii reduction in the tumor size inhibition i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop of cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs including the spread of cancer into soft tissue and bone iii inhibition i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop of tumor metastasis iv inhibition to some extent of tumor growth or v relief to some extent of one or more of the symptoms associated with the specific cancer including reduced morbidity and mortality and improvement in quality of life. To the extent the therapeutic combination may prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it may be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. Reduction of these signs or symptoms may also be felt by the patient. The above parameters for assessing successful treatment and improvement in the disease are readily measurable by routine procedures familiar to a physician. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR . Metastasis can be determined by staging tests and by bone scan and tests for calcium level and other enzymes to determine spread to the bone. CT scans can also be done to look for spread to the pelvis and lymph nodes in the area. Chest X rays and measurement of liver enzyme levels by known methods are used to look for metastasis to the lungs and liver respectively.

The term hematopoietic malignancy refers to a cancer or hyperproliferative disorder generated during hematopoiesis involving cells such as leukocytes lymphocytes natural killer cells plasma cells and myeloid cells such as neutrophils and monocytes. Hematopoietic malignancies include the diseases listed below I IX the WHO classification of Human Hematopoietic Malignancies Tumors of Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues Jaffe E. S. Harris N. L. Stein H. Vardiman J. W. Eds. 2001 World Health Organization Classification of Tumours. Pathology and Genetics of Tumours of Hematopoietic and Lymphoid Tissues. IARC Press Lyon with the morphology code of the International Classification of Diseases ICD O . Behavior is coded 3 for malignant tumors and 1 for lesions of low or uncertain malignant potential.

A B cell is a lymphocyte that matures within the bone marrow and includes a na ve B cell memory B cell or effector B cell plasma cell . The B cell herein is a normal or non malignant B cell.

A chemotherapeutic agent is a chemical compound useful in the treatment of cancer. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C chloranmbucil 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine ifosfamide mitoxantrone novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 difluoromethylornithine DMFO and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifine citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors for example ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Examples of a chemotherapeutic agent also include a DNA damaging agent such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkylating agents for example cis platin carboplatin cyclophosphamide nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard busulphan nitrosoureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine and temozolomide antimetabolites for example antifolates such as fluoropyrimidines like 5 fluorouracil 5 FU and tegafur raltitrexed methotrexate cytosine arabinoside hydroxyurea and GEMZAR gemcitabine antitumour antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics for example calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 anthracyclines like adriamycin dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin and zorubicin antimitotic agents for example vinca alkaloids like vincristine vinblastine vindesine and NAVELBINE vinorelbine and taxoids like taxoids for example TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France topoisomerase inhibitors for example RFS 2000 epipodophyllotoxins like etoposide and teniposide amsacrine a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan and irinotecan and SN 38 and cytodifferentiating agents for example retinoids such as all trans retinoic acid 13 cis retinoic acid and fenretinide and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

A chemotherapeutic agent also includes an agent that modulates the apoptotic response including inhibitors of IAP inhibitor of apoptosis proteins such as AEG40826 Aegera Therapeutics and inhibitors of bcl 2 such as GX15 070 Gemin X Biotechnologies CNDO103 Apogossypol Coronado Biosciences HA14 1 ethyl 2 amino 6 bromo 4 1 cyano 2 ethoxy 2 oxoethyl 4H chromene 3 carboxylate AT101 Ascenta Therapeutics ABT 737 and ABT 263 Abbott and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

A chemotherapeutic agent that can be used in combination with the present compounds also includes inhibitors of MEK MAP kinase kinase such as GDC0973 XL518 Genentech Inc. Exelixis Inc. and AZD6244 Astrazeneca inhibitors of mTor mammalian target of rapamycin such as rapamycin AP23573 Ariad Pharmaceuticals temsirolimus Wyeth Pharmaceuticals and RAD001 Novartis inhibitors of PI3K phosphoinositide 3 kinase such as SF 1126 PI3K inhibitor Semafore Pharmaceuticals BEZ 235 PI3K inhibitor Novartis XL 147 PI3K inhibitor Exelixis Inc. GDC 0980 Genentech and GDC 0941 Genentech inhibitors of Akt and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

The term prodrug as used in this application refers to a precursor or derivative form of a compound of the invention that is capable of being enzymatically or hydrolytically activated or converted into the more active parent form. See for example Wilman Prodrugs in Cancer Chemotherapy Biochemical Society Transactions 14 pp. 375 382 615th Meeting Belfast 1986 and Stella et al. Prodrugs A Chemical Approach to Targeted Drug Delivery Borchardt et al. ed. pp. 247 267 Humana Press 1985 . The prodrugs of this invention include but are not limited to ester containing prodrugs phosphate containing prodrugs thiophosphate containing prodrugs sulfate containing prodrugs peptide containing prodrugs D amino acid modified prodrugs glycosylated prodrugs lactam containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenoxyacetamide containing prodrugs optionally substituted phenylacetamide containing prodrugs 5 fluorocytosine and other 5 fluorouridine prodrugs which can be converted into the more active cytotoxic free drug. Examples of cytotoxic drugs that can be derivatized into a prodrug form for use in this invention include but are not limited to compounds of the invention and chemotherapeutic agents such as described above.

A metabolite is a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Metabolites of a compound may be identified using routine techniques known in the art and their activities determined using tests such as those described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation hydroxylation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of compounds of the invention including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

A liposome is a small vesicle composed of various types of lipids phospholipids and or surfactant which is useful for delivery of a drug such as chk inhibitors disclosed herein and optionally a chemotherapeutic agent to a mammal. The components of the liposome are commonly arranged in a bilayer formation similar to the lipid arrangement of biological membranes.

The term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

The term stereoisomer refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution and connectivity but different orientations of their atoms in space that cannot be interconverted by rotation about single bonds.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties for example melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers may separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as crystallization electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention may contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and 1 or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or 1 meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer may also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which may occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

The term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons. For example any reference to a structure of 2 hydroxypyridine include its tautomer 2 oxo 1 2 dihydropyridine also known as 2 pyridone and vice versa.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable salt as used herein refers to pharmaceutically acceptable organic or inorganic salts of a compound of the invention. Exemplary salts include but are not limited to sulfate citrate acetate oxalate chloride bromide iodide nitrate bisulfate phosphate acid phosphate isonicotinate lactate salicylate acid citrate tartrate oleate tannate pantothenate bitartrate ascorbate succinate maleate gentisinate fumarate gluconate glucuronate saccharate formate benzoate glutamate methanesulfonate mesylate ethanesulfonate benzenesulfonate p toluenesulfonate pamoate i.e. 1 1 methylene bis 2 hydroxy 3 naphthoate salts alkali metal for example sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal for example magnesium salts and ammonium salts. A pharmaceutically acceptable salt may involve the inclusion of another molecule such as an acetate ion a succinate ion or other counter ion. The counter ion may be any organic or inorganic moiety that stabilizes the charge on the parent compound. Furthermore a pharmaceutically acceptable salt may have more than one charged atom in its structure. Instances where multiple charged atoms are part of the pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have multiple counter ions. Hence a pharmaceutically acceptable salt can have one or more charged atoms and or one or more counter ion.

If the compound of the invention is a base the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method available in the art for example treatment of the free base with an inorganic acid such as hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid nitric acid phosphoric acid and the like or with an organic acid such as acetic acid methanesulfonic acid maleic acid succinic acid mandelic acid fumaric acid malonic acid pyruvic acid oxalic acid glycolic acid salicylic acid a pyranosidyl acid such as glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid an alpha hydroxy acid such as citric acid or tartaric acid an amino acid such as aspartic acid or glutamic acid an aromatic acid such as benzoic acid or cinnamic acid a sulfonic acid such as p toluenesulfonic acid or ethanesulfonic acid or the like.

If the compound of the invention is an acid the desired pharmaceutically acceptable salt may be prepared by any suitable method for example treatment of the free acid with an inorganic or organic base such as an amine primary secondary or tertiary an alkali metal hydroxide or alkaline earth metal hydroxide or the like. Illustrative examples of suitable salts include but are not limited to organic salts derived from amino acids such as glycine and arginine ammonia primary secondary and tertiary amines and cyclic amines such as piperidine morpholine and piperazine and inorganic salts derived from sodium calcium potassium magnesium manganese iron copper zinc aluminum and lithium.

The phrase pharmaceutically acceptable indicates that the substance or composition must be compatible chemically and or toxicologically with the other ingredients comprising a formulation and or the mammal being treated therewith.

A solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

The term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functionality while reacting other functional groups on the compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl SEM and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and t butyldimethylsilyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis John Wiley Sons New York 1991.

The terms compound of this invention and compounds of the present invention and compounds of formula I II III IV or V compounds of formula I II III IV and or V unless otherwise indicated include compounds of formula I II III IV and or V and stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites salts for example pharmaceutically acceptable salts and prodrugs thereof. Unless otherwise stated structures depicted herein are also meant to include compounds that differ only in the presence of one or more isotopically enriched atoms. For example compounds of formula I II III IV or V wherein one or more hydrogen atoms are replaced deuterium or tritium or one or more carbon atoms are replaced by a C or C enriched carbon are within the scope of this invention.

The present invention provides 4 substituted N pyridin 3 yl carboxamides of formula I and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof as described above with Pim kinase inhibitory activity such as Pim 1 Pim 2 and or Pim 3 inhibitory activities. The present compounds are particularly useful as pan Pim kinase inhibitors.

In certain embodiments of the present invention X is N or S and all other variables are as defined for formula I . In certain embodiments of the present invention X is N and all other variables are as defined for formula I . In certain embodiments of the present invention X is S and all other variables are as defined for formula I . The dashed lines between X Y and the carbon atom bearing X and Y indicate the inclusion of formula Ia and Ib isomers as compounds of the invention. Each represents a single bond or a double bond and with the proviso that these bonds between X Y and the carbon atom bearing X and Y are not both double bonds and are not both single bonds.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Y is NH and all other variables are as defined for formula I or as defined in one of the embodiments described above. In certain embodiments of the present invention Y is S and all other variables are as defined for formula I or as defined in one of the embodiments described above. In certain embodiments of the present invention Y is O and all other variables are as defined for formula I or as defined in one of the embodiments described above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention a compound is of formula II III IV or V and all other variables are as defined for formula I .

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H alkyl cycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl wherein said alkyl cycloalkyl aryl or heteroaryl is optionally substituted with one to three Rgroups and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H or NH and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris H and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above. In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris NH and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris halo or N R wherein two Rgroups are taken care to the attached N atom to form a 5 6 membered ring having additional 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N said ring being optionally substituted with one to three Rgroups and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris halo and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above. In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris Cl and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

In certain embodiments of the present invention Ris N R wherein two Rgroups are taken care to the attached N atom to form a 5 6 membered ring having additional 0 2 heteroatoms selected from O S and N said ring being optionally substituted with one to three Rgroups and all other variables are as defined in formula I II III IV or V or as defined in any one of the embodiments described above.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes title compounds described in EXAMPLES 1 66 below.

The present compounds are prepared according to the procedures described below in the schemes and examples or by methods known in the art. The starting materials and various intermediates may be obtained from commercial sources prepared from commercially available compounds or prepared using well known synthetic methods. Accordingly methods for making the present compounds of formula I according to Schemes 1 5 are within the scope of the present invention.

The compounds of the present invention are tested for their capacity to inhibit Pim kinase activity and for their biological effects on growing cells as described below in EXAMPLES i and ii. The compounds having Ki ICECof less than 10 M preferably less than 1 M more preferably less than 0.1 M even more preferably less than 0.01 M most preferably less than 0.001 M in assays described in EXAMPLES i and ii are useful as Pim kinase inhibitors Pim 1 Pim 2 and or Pim 3 .

Exemplary Formula I compounds in Table 1 were made characterized and tested for inhibition of Pim kinase according to the methods of this invention and have the following structures and corresponding names ChemDraw Ultra Version 9.0.1 CambridgeSoft Corp. Cambridge Mass. .

The present invention includes a composition for example a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier . The present invention also includes a composition for example a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof and a carrier a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier further comprising a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. The present compositions are useful for inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder such as cancer in a mammal for example human . For example the present compounds and compositions are useful for treating multiple myeloma lymphoma acute myeloid leukemia prostate cancer breast cancer hepatocellular carcinoma pancreatic cancer and or colorectal cancer in a mammal for example human .

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder such as cancer in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof. For example the present invention includes a method of treating multiple myeloma lymphoma acute myeloid leukemia prostate cancer breast cancer hepatocellular carcinoma pancreatic cancer and or colorectal cancer in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof.

The present invention includes a method of inhibiting abnormal cell growth or treating a hyperproliferative disorder such as cancer in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein. For example the present invention includes a method of treating multiple myeloma lymphoma acute myeloid leukemia prostate cancer breast cancer hepatocellular carcinoma pancreatic cancer and or colorectal cancer in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as those described herein.

The present invention includes a method of treating lymphoma in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof either alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as an anti B cell antibody therapeutic for example Rituxan and or Dacetuzumab gemcitabine corticosteroids for example prednisolone and or dexamethasone chemotherapy cocktails for example CHOP cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine prednisolone and or ICE isfosfamide cytoxan etoposide a combination of biologics and chemotherapy for example Rituxan ICE Dacetuzumab Rituxan ICE R Gem and or D R Gem an Aid inhibitor a PI3K inhibitor rapamycin a MEK inhibitor for example GDC 0973 a Bcl 2 inhibitor for example ABT 263 and lymphoma directed antibody drug conjugate for example antiCD22 antibody drug conjugate including but not limited to antiCD22 vcMMAE and or antiCD79b antibody drug conjugate including but not limited to antiCD79b vcMMAE .

Formula I compounds may be employed in combination with certain chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of a hematopoietic malignancy along with pre malignant and non neoplastic or non malignant hyperproliferative disorders. In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is combined in a pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen as combination therapy with a chemotherapeutic agent that has anti hyperproliferative properties or that is useful for treating the hematopoietic malignancy. The chemotherapeutic agent of the pharmaceutical combination formulation or dosing regimen preferably has complementary activities to the formula I compound and such that they do not adversely affect each other. Such compounds of the therapeutic combination may be administered in amounts that are effective for the purpose intended. In one embodiment a pharmaceutical formulation of this invention comprises a formula I compound and a chemotherapeutic agent such as described herein in a combined formulation. In another embodiment the therapeutic combination is administered by a dosing regimen wherein the therapeutically effective amount of a formula I compound is administered in a range from twice daily to once every three weeks q3wk and the therapeutically effective amount of the chemotherapeutic agent is administered separately in alternation in a range from twice daily to once every three weeks.

The present invention includes a method of treating multiple myeloma in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof either alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as melphalan Imids for example thalidomide lenalidomide and or pomolidamide corticosteroids for example dexamethasone and or prednisolone and bortezomib or other proteosome inhibitor.

The present invention includes a method of treating acute myeloid leukemia AML in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof either alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as cytarabine araC anthracylines for example daunorubicin and or idarubicin anti myeloid antibody therapeutics for example SGN 33 anti myeloid antibody drug conjugates for example mylotarg .

The present invention includes a method of treating chronic lymphocytic leukemia CLL in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof either alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as fludarabine cyclophosphamide anti B cell antibody therapeutics for example Rituxan and or Dacetuzumab .

The present invention includes a method of treating chronic myeloid leukemia CML in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof either alone or in combination with a second chemotherapeutic agent such as a BCR abl inhibitor for example imatinib nilotinib and or dasatinib .

The present invention includes a method of treating myelodysplastic diseases MDS and myeloproliferative disorders including polycythemia vera PV essential thrombocytosis ET or myelofibrosis MF in a mammal for example human comprising administering to said mammal a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I II III IV and or V and or solvates hydrates and or salts thereof or a composition thereof either alone or in combination.

The present invention includes a method of using the present compounds for in vitro in situ and in vivo diagnosis or treatment of mammalian cells organisms or associated pathological conditions.

Certain chemotherapeutic agents have demonstrated surprising and unexpected properties in combination with formula I compounds of the invention in inhibiting cellular proliferation in vitro and in vivo. Such chemotherapeutic agents include PI3K inhibitor Formula A compound known as GDC 0941 Genentech Inc. and named as 4 2 1H indazol 4 yl 6 4 methylsulfonyl piperazin 1 yl methyl thieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 4 yl morpholine registered as CAS Reg. No. 957054 30 7 described and claimed in US 2008 0076768 disclosed in Folkes et al 2008 Jour. of Med. Chem. 51 18 5522 5532 Belvin et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 15 Abstract 4004 Folkes et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 146 Friedman et al American Association for Cancer Research Annual Meeting 2008 99th April 14 Abstract LB 110 and has the structure 

Another exemplary PI3K inhibitor chemotherapeutic agent is Formula B compound named as S 1 4 2 2 aminopyrimidin 5 yl 7 methyl 4 morpholinothieno 3 2 d pyrimidin 6 yl methyl piperazin 1 yl 2 hydroxypropan 1 one US 2008 02426651 and has structure B 

Certain exemplary therapeutic combinations of formula I compounds and chemotherapeutic agents described herein were assayed for in vitro activity against tumor cells and in vivo activity against tumors in mice.

The cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of formula I exemplary compounds was measured by establishing a proliferating mammalian tumor cell line in a cell culture medium adding a formula I compound culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability Example i . Cell based in vitro assays were used to measure viability i.e. proliferation IC cytotoxicity EC and induction of apoptosis caspase activation .

The in vitro potency of the combinations of formula I compounds with chemotherapeutic agents was measured by the cell proliferation assay of Example 11 and the results are compiled in Example iii. The CellTiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay commercially available from Promega Corp. Madison Wis. is a homogeneous assay method based on the recombinant expression of Coleoptera luciferase U.S. Pat. No. 5 583 024 U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 713 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 670 and determines the number of viable cells in culture based on quantitation of the ATP present an indicator of metabolically active cells Crouch et al 1993 J. Immunol. Meth. 160 81 88 U.S. Pat. No. 6 602 677 . The CellTiter Glo Assay was conducted in 96 or 384 well format making it amenable to automated high throughput screening HTS Cree et al 1995 AntiCancer Drugs 6 398 404 . The homogeneous assay procedure involves adding the single reagent CellTiter Glo Reagent directly to cells cultured in serum supplemented medium. Cell washing removal of medium and multiple pipetting steps are not required. The system detects as few as 15 cells well in a 384 well format in 10 minutes after adding reagent and mixing.

The homogeneous add mix measure format results in cell lysis and generation of a luminescent signal proportional to the amount of ATP present. The amount of ATP is directly proportional to the number of cells present in culture. The CellTiter Glo Assay generates a glow type luminescent signal produced by the luciferase reaction which has a half life generally greater than five hours depending on cell type and medium used. Viable cells are reflected in relative luminescence units RLU . The substrate Beetle Luciferin is oxidatively decarboxylated by recombinant firefly luciferase with concomitant conversion of ATP to AMP and generation of photons. The extended half life eliminates the need to use reagent injectors and provides flexibility for continuous or batch mode processing of multiple plates. This cell proliferation assay can be used with various multiwell formats for example 96 or 384 well format. Data can be recorded by luminometer or CCD camera imaging device. The luminescence output is presented as relative light units RLU measured over time.

The anti proliferative effects of formula I exemplary compounds and combinations with chemotherapeutic agents were measured by the CellTiter Glo Assay Example ii against the tumor cell lines in Example iii. ECvalues were established for the tested compounds and combinations. The range of in vitro cell potency activities was about 0.1 nM to about 3 M.

The individual measured EC50 values of exemplary Compound 3 S 5 amino N 4 3 aminopiperidin 1 yl pyridin 3 yl 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamide and of the chemotherapeutic agent against the particular cell were compared to the combination EC50 value. The combination index CI score is calculated by the Chou and Talalay method Chou T. and Talalay P. 1984 Adv. Enzyme Regul. 22 27 55 . A CI less than 0.8 indicates synergy. A CI between 0.8 and 1.2 indicates additivity. A CI greater than 1.2 indicates antagonism. The strength of synergy is assessed according to Chou and Talalay. Certain therapeutic combinations in show the surprising and unexpected property of synergy in the in vitro cell proliferation assays with tumor type cell lines including multiple myeloma. Other combinations show no synergy and only show mere additivity or antagonism. Certain combinations are synergistic with one or more tumor types but not others. The synergy demonstrated in the in vitro cell proliferation assays provides a basis to expect a corresponding synergy in treating hematopoietic cancers including but not limited to multiple myeloma in human patients.

Sigmoid dose response curves are obtained indicative of well behaved soluble compounds and appropriate assay conditions. The curve obtained for Compound 3 single agent does not fully reach 0 of the control value suggesting a partial or fully cytostatic mode of action whereas Formula A and Formula B both reach about 0 of control values suggesting a cytotoxic modality. In test conditions where either Formula A or Formula B appear in combination with Compound 3 the dose response curves are shifted to the left indicating that these combinations have a more potent effect than each single agent alone. Such combination dose response curves reach to about 0 of control suggesting that the cytotoxic modality of Formula A and Formula B are retained in the respective combinations. Mathematical treatment of the data in according to the methods of Chao and Talalay provides the data in Table 2. Provided in the last three columns of Table 2 are the Combination Index CI values calculated at the Effective Dose ED 50 75 and 90 respectively. Consistent with the full leftward shift in the combinations of all measured points in the single agent curves of Formula A and Formula B the calculated CI values are substantially less than 1 at the ED50 ED 75 and ED90. These CI values indicate that the combinations tested have an surprising and unexpected synergistic effect to promote cancer cell death in the assay.

Shown in are a summary of Combination Index values for Compound 3 in combination with different agents. The values shown were calculated at the ED50 of the dose response curves which were similar in nature to those exemplified in . Each dot in the plot represents the test results obtained with a different multiple myeloma cell line with a different combination of test agents including Compound 3 plus a second agent as labeled on the abscissa. The horizontal line on the plot itself indicates the mean of all CI values for a given test agent. Combinations of Compound 3 with clinical standard of care chemotherapeutic agents including dexamethasone lenalidomide bortezomib and melphalan produced variable results wherein CI values between about 0.1 and about 1 were obtained with means generally greater than about 0.5. Compared to these clinically active agents unexpectedly uniform and unexpectedly potent combination test results were obtained for Compound 3 in combination with Formula A in which the majority of calculated CI values were less than about 0.2 and the mean across all cancer cell lines tested was about 0.2. In addition to these findings bone marrow aspirate samples from multiple myeloma patients were and to test Formula A and Compound 3 singly and in combination on these primary cancer cell isolates. Two of four cases showed only limited single agent activity at either 0.3 or 1.0 micromolar drug concentrations but that the combination treatment induced extensive apoptosis in tumor cells but not in unrelated B cell lineage cells.

Dexamethasone is a potent glucocorticoid steroid hormone with anti inflammatory and immunosuppressant activity. In oncology dexamethasone is given to cancer patients undergoing chemotherapy both to counteract certain side effects of their antitumor treatment as well as for its direct antitumor activity. Dexamethasone is named as 8S 9R 10S 11S 13S 14S 16R 17R 9 fluoro 11 17 dihydroxy 17 2 hydroxyacetyl 10 13 16 trimethyl 6 7 8 11 12 14 15 16 octahydrocyclopenta a phenanthren 3 one CAS Reg. No. 50 02 2 .

Lenalidomide REVLIMID CC5013 Revimid Celgene Inc. is a derivative of thalidomide and introduced in 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 5 635 517 U.S. Pat. No. 6 281 230 to treat both inflammatory disorders and cancers. There are multiple mechanisms of action including a direct anti tumor effect inhibition of the microenvironment support for tumor cells and an immunomodulatory role. In vitro lenalidomide induces tumor cell apoptosis directly and indirectly by inhibition of bone marrow stromal cell support by anti angiogenic and anti osteoclastogenic effects and by immunomodulatory activity. Lenalidomide was initially intended as a treatment for multiple myeloma for which thalidomide is an accepted therapeutic modality but has also shown efficacy in the class of hematological disorders known as myelodysplastic syndromes Richardson et al 2002 Blood 100 3063 Bartlett et al 2004 Nature Rev. 4 314 322 Mitsiades et al 2004 Curr. Opin. Invest. Drugs 5 635 647 Armoiry et al. 2008 J of Clin Pharmacy Therapeutics 33 219 226 List et al 2005 N. Engl. Jour. Med. 352 549 57 . Lenalidomide is named as 3 4 amino 1 oxoisoindolin 2 yl piperidine 2 6 dione 3 4 amino 1 3 dihydro 1 oxo 2H isoindol 2 yl 2 6 piperidinedione 1 oxo 2 2 6 dioxopiperidin 3 yl 4 aminoisoindoline CAS Reg. No. 191732 72 6 .

Bortezomib MG 341 PS 341 VELCADE Millenium Pharm. is a boronic acid proteasome inhibitor approved in the US for treating relapsed multiple myeloma and mantle cell lymphoma. WO 96 13266 U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 454 U.S. Pat. No. 6 083 903 U.S. Pat. No. 6 297 217 U.S. Pat. No. 6 617 317 U.S. Pat. No. 6 713 446 U.S. Pat. No. 6 747 150 U.S. Pat. No. 6 958 319 U.S. Pat. No. 7 119 080 . The boron atom in bortezomib binds the catalytic site of the 26S proteasome with high affinity and specificity. In normal cells the proteasome regulates protein expression and function by degradation of ubiquitinylated proteins and also cleanses the cell of abnormal or misfolded proteins. Adams et al 2004 Cancer Invest 22 2 304 11 Bonvini 2007 . Leukemia 21 4 838 42 . Bortezomib is named as 1R 3 methyl 1 25 3 phenyl 2 pyrazin 2 ylcarbonyl amino propanoylamino butyl boronic acid R 3 methyl 1 S 3 phenyl 2 pyrazine 2 carboxamido propanamido butylboronic acid or 1R 3 methyl 1 2S 1 oxo 3 phenyl 2 pyrazinylcarbonyl amino propyl amino butyl boronic acid CAS Reg. No. 179324 69 7 .

Melphalan L phenylalanine mustard alanine nitrogen mustard L PAM melfalan L sarcolysine NSC 8806 CB 3025 ALKERAN Glaxo SmithKline Sarcoclorin is a nitrogen mustard alkylating agent type of chemotherapeutic U.S. Pat. No. 3 032 584 U.S. Pat. No. 3 032 585 . Melphalan is used primarily to treat multiple myeloma ovarian cancer and melanoma IARC Monographs 1975 9 167 180 Furner et al 1980 Cancer Treat. Rep. 64 559 574 . Melphalan is named as 2 amino 3 4 bis 2 chloroethyl amino phenyl propanoic acid 4 bis 2 chloroethyl amino L phenylalanine or p di 2 chloroethyl amino L phenylalanine CAS Reg. No. 148 82 3 .

MK2206 Merck Co. is an AKT inhibitor being developed for potential treatment of solid tumors by oral administration Yan L. 100Amer. Assoc. for Cancer Res. April 2009 Abstract DDT01 1 Trucksis M. et al 100Amer. Assoc. for Cancer Res. April 2009 Abstract 3604 Hirai H. et al 100Amer. Assoc. for Cancer Res. April 2009 Abstract 3707 Morphy R. 2010 J. Med. Chem. 53 4 1413 1437 U.S. Pat. No. 7 576 209 . MK2206 is named as 8 4 1 aminocyclobutyl phenyl 9 phenyl 1 2 4 triazolo 3 4 f 1 6 naphthyridin 3 2H one and has the structure 

Rapamycin sirolimus RAPAMUNE is an immunosuppressant drug used to prevent rejection in organ transplantation and is especially useful in kidney transplants. Rapamycin is a macrolide antibiotic produced by the bacterium in a soil sample obtained from an island called Rapa Nui better known as Easter Island Pritchard DI 2005 . Drug Discovery Today 10 10 688 691 . Rapamycin inhibits the response to interleukin 2 IL 2 and thereby blocks activation of T and hematopoietics. The mode of action of rapamycin is to bind the cytosolic protein FK binding protein 12 FKBP12 . The rapamycin FKBP12 complex inhibits the mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR pathway through directly binding the mTOR Complex1 mTORC1 . mTOR is also called FRAP FKBP rapamycin associated protein or RAFT rapamycin and FKBP target . Rapamycin analogs Rapalogs include Temsirolimus CCI 779 Wyeth Everolimus RAD001 Novartis Deforolimus AP23573 MK 8669 Ariad Merck . Rapamycin is named as 3S 6R 7E 9R 10R 12R 14S 15E 17E 19E 21S 23S 26R 27R 34aS 9 10 12 13 14 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 32 33 34 34a hexadecahydro 9 27 dihydroxy 3 1R 2 1S 3R 4R 4 hydroxy 3 methoxycyclohexyl 1 methylethyl 10 21 dimethoxy 6 8 12 14 20 26 hexamethyl 23 27 epoxy 3H pyrido 2 1 c 1 4 oxaazacyclohentriacontine 1 5 11 28 29 4H 6H 31H pentone CAS Reg. No. 53123 88 9 and has the structure 

PD 0325901 CAS RN 391210 10 9 Pfizer is a second generation non ATP competitive allosteric MEK inhibitor for the potential oral tablet treatment of cancer U.S. Pat. No. 6 960 614 U.S. Pat. No. 6 972 298 US 2004 147478 US 2005 085550 . Phase II clinical trials have been conducted for the potential treatment of breast tumors colon tumors and melanoma. PD 0325901 is named as R N 2 3 dihydroxypropoxy 3 4 difluoro 2 2 fluoro 4 iodophenylamino benzamide and has the structure 

The efficacy of the combinations of the invention may be measured in vivo by implanting allografts or xenografts of cancer cells in rodents and treating the tumor bearing animals with the combinations. Variable results are to be expected depending on the cell line the presence or absence of certain mutations in the tumor cells the sequence of administration of a formula I compound and chemotherapeutic agent dosing regimen and other factors. Subject mice were treated with drug s or control Vehicle and monitored over several weeks or more to measure the time to tumor doubling log cell kill and tumor inhibition.

Dosing of all cohorts commenced on Day 0 when the mean tumor volume of all cohorts was between about 100 to 200 cubic millimeters. Compared to the vehicle control doses of Compound 3 as a single agent had an effect to delay tumor growth with increased delay at higher doses. At the lowest dose there was a trend toward accelerated tumor growth though this trend was not statistically significant. At the highest dose of 50 mg kg a tumor growth inhibition TGI of about 70 was obtained at day 27 compared to vehicle. Formula A was tested at as a single agent at a single dose level of 75 mg kg for which a lesser TGI of 40 was obtained at day 27. Combinations of Compound 3 with Formula A showed increasing levels of tumor growth suppression with increasing dose levels of Compound 3 and at the highest dose level tested showed 106 TGI. These results suggest that the synergy of combination treatments that was observed in vitro can be recapitulated in vivo and interpreted more broadly that combinations of PIM kinase inhibitors exemplified by Compound 3 combined with PI3K inhibitors exemplified by Formula A could provide therapeutic benefit to patients including but not limited to those with multiple myeloma.

Dosing of all cohorts commenced on Day 0 when the mean tumor volume of all cohorts was between about 200 cubic millimeters. Compared to the vehicle control doses of Formula A or Compound 3 as single agents had no significant effect on tumor growth. However combinations of Compound 3 at all dose levels with Formula A showed increased levels of tumor growth suppression with the highest dose level tested showing 68 TGI. These results suggest that the synergy of combination treatments that was observed in vitro can be recapitulated in vivo and interpreted more broadly that combinations of PIM kinase inhibitors exemplified by Compound 3 combined with PI3K inhibitors exemplified by Formula A could provide therapeutic benefit to patients including but not limited to those with Non hodgkin s Lymphoma. At the conclusion of this study femurs were collected and histological analysis of the bone marrow was conducted and peripheral blood was collected for determination of blood cell counts. The vehicle group was compared to high dose Compound 3 group and the high dose combination group. While the first two groups showed no significant findings the high dose combination group had the surprising finding that there were only very minimal hypocellularity in the marrow and only modest reductions of peripheral white cell counts in the blood. These results indicate an unexpectedly broad therapeutic index wherein combination of PI3K and Pim yridine n can inhibit cancer cell growth without significant untoward effect on normal blood and marrow cells.

Dosing of all cohorts commenced on Day 0 when the mean tumor volume of all cohorts was between about 200 to 300 cubic millimeters. Compared to the vehicle control doses of Compound 3 as a single agent had an effect to delay tumor growth with increased delay at higher doses. At the highest dose of 50 mg kg a tumor growth inhibition TGI of about 60 was obtained at day 18 compared to vehicle. Formula A was tested at as a single agent at a single dose level of 75 mg kg for which a lesser TGI was obtained at day 18. Combinations of Compound 3 with Formula A showed increasing levels of tumor growth suppression with increasing dose levels of Compound 3 and at the highest dose level tested showed 80 TGI. These results suggest that the synergy of combination treatments that was observed in vitro can be recapitulated in vivo and interpreted more broadly that combinations of PIM kinase inhibitors exemplified by Compound 3 combined with PI3K inhibitors exemplified by Formula A could provide therapeutic benefit to patients including but not limited to those with multiple myeloma.

Dosing of all cohorts commenced on Day 0 when the mean tumor volume of all cohorts was between about 100 to 200 cubic millimeters. Compared to the vehicle control doses of Compound 3 as a single agent had an effect to delay tumor growth with increased delay at higher doses. At the highest dose of 50 mg kg tumor growth inhibition TGI of about 45 was obtained at day 23 compared to vehicle. Formula A was tested at as a single agent at a single dose level of 75 mg kg for which a similar TGI was obtained at day 23. Combinations of Compound 3 with Formula A showed similar levels of tumor growth suppression at all dose levels of Compound 3 tested and showed about 50 60 TGI. These results suggest that the synergy of combination treatments that was observed in vitro can be recapitulated in vivo and interpreted more broadly that combinations of PIM kinase inhibitors exemplified by Compound 3 combined with PI3K inhibitors exemplified by Formula A could provide therapeutic benefit to patients including but not limited to those with multiple myeloma.

Dosing of all cohorts commenced on Day 0 when the mean tumor volume of all cohorts was between about 100 to 200 cubic millimeters. Compared to the vehicle control doses of either Compound 3 or Formula A as single agents had an effect to delay tumor growth with tumor growth inhibition TGI of about 60 70 was obtained at day 38 compared to vehicle. Combination of Compound 3 with Formula A showed about 100 TGI. These results suggest that combination of PIM kinase inhibitors exemplified by Compound 3 combined with PI3K inhibitors exemplified by Formula A could provide therapeutic benefit to patients including but not limited to those with prostate carcinoma.

Administration of the compounds of the present invention hereinafter the active compound s can be effected by any method that enables delivery of the compounds to the site of action. These methods include oral routes intraduodenal routes parenteral injection including intravenous subcutaneous intramuscular intravascular or infusion topical inhalation and rectal administration.

The amount of the active compound administered will be dependent on the subject being treated the severity of the disorder or condition the rate of administration the disposition of the compound and the discretion of the prescribing physician. However an effective dosage is in the range of about 0.001 to about 100 mg per kg body weight per day preferably about 1 to about 35 mg kg day in single or divided doses. For a 70 kg human this would amount to about 0.05 to 7 g day preferably about 0.05 to about 2.5 g day. In some instances dosage levels below the lower limit of the aforesaid range may be more than adequate while in other cases still larger doses may be employed without causing any harmful side effect provided that such larger doses are first divided into several small doses for administration throughout the day.

The active compound may be applied as a sole therapy or in combination with one or more chemotherapeutic agents for example those described herein. Such conjoint treatment may be achieved by way of the simultaneous sequential or separate dosing of the individual components of treatment.

Pharmaceutical compositions also embrace isotopically labeled formula I compounds which are identical to those recited herein but for the fact that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having an atomic mass or mass number different from the atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorus sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those labeled with H and C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

The pharmaceutical composition may for example be in a form suitable for oral administration as a tablet capsule pill powder sustained release formulations solution suspension for parenteral injection as a sterile solution suspension or emulsion for topical administration as an ointment or cream or for rectal administration as a suppository. The pharmaceutical composition may be in unit dosage forms suitable for single administration of precise dosages. The pharmaceutical composition will include a conventional pharmaceutical carrier or excipient and a compound according to the invention as an active ingredient. In addition it may include other medicinal or pharmaceutical agents carriers adjuvants etc.

Exemplary parenteral administration forms include solutions or suspensions of active compounds in sterile aqueous solutions for example aqueous propylene glycol or dextrose solutions. Such dosage forms can be suitably buffered if desired.

Suitable pharmaceutical carriers include inert diluents or fillers water and various organic solvents. The pharmaceutical compositions may if desired contain additional ingredients such as flavorings binders excipients and the like. Thus for oral administration tablets containing various excipients such as citric acid may be employed together with various disintegrants such as starch alginic acid and certain complex silicates and with binding agents such as sucrose gelatin and acacia. Additionally lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate sodium lauryl sulfate and talc are often useful for tableting purposes. Solid compositions of a similar type may also be employed in soft and hard filled gelatin capsules. Preferred materials therefore include lactose or milk sugar and high molecular weight polyethylene glycols. When aqueous suspensions or elixirs are desired for oral administration the active compound therein may be combined with various sweetening or flavoring agents coloring matters or dyes and if desired emulsifying agents or suspending agents together with diluents such as water ethanol propylene glycol glycerin or combinations thereof.

Methods of preparing various pharmaceutical compositions with a specific amount of active compound are known or will be apparent to those skilled in this art. For examples see Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences Mack Publishing Company Ester Pa. 15.sup.th Edition 1975 .

Also falling within the scope of this invention are the in vivo metabolic products of formula I compounds described herein. Such products may result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound. Accordingly the invention includes metabolites of formula I compounds including compounds produced by a process comprising contacting a compound of this invention with a mammal for a period of time sufficient to yield a metabolic product thereof.

In another embodiment of the invention an article of manufacture or kit containing formula I compounds useful for the treatment of the diseases and disorders described above is provided. In one embodiment the kit comprises a container comprising a formula I compound. The kit may further comprise a label or package insert on or associated with the container. The term package insert is used to refer to instructions customarily included in commercial packages of therapeutic products that contain information about the indications usage dosage administration contraindications and or warnings concerning the use of such therapeutic products. Suitable containers include for example bottles vials syringes blister pack etc. The container may be formed from a variety of materials such as glass or plastic. The container may hold a compound of Formula I or a formulation thereof which is effective for treating the condition and may have a sterile access port for example the container may be an intravenous solution bag or a vial having a stopper pierceable by a hypodermic injection needle . At least one active agent in the composition is a formula I compound. The label or package insert indicates that the composition is used for treating the condition of choice such as cancer. In one embodiment the label or package inserts indicates that the composition comprising a Formula I compound can be used to treat a disorder resulting from abnormal cell growth. The label or package insert may also indicate that the composition can be used to treat other disorders. Alternatively or additionally the article of manufacture may further comprise a second container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

The kit may further comprise directions for the administration of the compound of formula I and if present the second pharmaceutical formulation. For example if the kit comprises a first composition comprising a compound of formula I and a second pharmaceutical formulation comprising for example chemotherapeutic agent Formula A or B compound the kit may further comprise directions for the simultaneous sequential or separate administration of the first and second pharmaceutical compositions to a patient in need thereof.

In another embodiment the kits are suitable for the delivery of solid oral forms of a compound of formula I such as tablets or capsules. Such a kit preferably includes a number of unit dosages. Such kits can include a card having the dosages oriented in the order of their intended use. An example of such a kit is a blister pack . Blister packs are well known in the packaging industry and are widely used for packaging pharmaceutical unit dosage forms. If desired a memory aid can be provided for example in the form of numbers letters or other markings or with a calendar insert designating the days in the treatment schedule in which the dosages can be administered.

According to one embodiment a kit may comprise a a first container with a compound of Formula I contained therein and optionally b a second container with a second pharmaceutical formulation contained therein wherein the second pharmaceutical formulation comprises a second compound with anti hyperproliferative activity. Alternatively or additionally the kit may further comprise a third container comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable buffer such as bacteriostatic water for injection BWFI phosphate buffered saline Ringer s solution and dextrose solution. It may further include other materials desirable from a commercial and user standpoint including other buffers diluents filters needles and syringes.

Where the kit comprises a composition of formula I and a second therapeutic agent i.e. the chemotherapeutic agent the kit may comprise a container for containing the separate compositions such as a divided bottle or a divided foil packet however the separate compositions may also be contained within a single undivided container. Typically the kit comprises directions for the administration of the separate components. The kit form is particularly advantageous when the separate components are preferably administered in different dosage forms for example oral and parenteral are administered at different dosage intervals or when titration of the individual components of the combination is desired by the prescribing physician.

Pim 1 Pim 2 and Pim 3 enzymes were generated as fusion proteins expressed in bacteria and purified by IMAC column chromatography Sun X. Chiu J. F. and He Q. Y. 2005 Application of immobilized metal affinity chromatography in proteomics. 2 649 657 . Reaction Buffer contained 10 mM HEPES pH 7.2 10 mM MgCl 0.01 Tween 20 2 mM DTT. Termination Buffer contained 190 mM HEPES pH 7.2 0.015 Brij 35 0.2 Coating Reagent 3 Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. 20 mM EDTA. Separation Buffer contained 100 mM HEPES pH 7.2 0.015 Brij 35 0.1 Coating Reagent 3 1 200 Coating Reagent 8 Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. 10 mM EDTA and 5 DMSO.

PIM reactions were carried out in a final volume of 10 L per well in a 384 well plate. A standard enzymatic reaction initiated by the addition of 5 L 2 ATP and test compound to 5 A of 2 enzyme and FAM Pimtide substrate American Peptide Company Sunnyvale Calif. contained 20 pM PIM1 50 pM PIM2 or 55 pM PIM3 1 M FAM Pimtide and 10 M ATP in Reaction Buffer. After 90 minutes of incubation at room temperature the phosphorylation reaction was stopped by the addition of 10 L Termination Buffer. The product and substrate in each independent reaction were separated on a 12 sipper microfluidic chip Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. run on a Caliper LC3000 Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. . The separation of product and substrate was optimized by choosing voltages and pressure using Caliper s Optimizer software Hopkinton Mass. . The separation conditions used a downstream voltage of 500V an upstream voltage of 2150V and a screening pressure of 1.2 psi. The product and substrate fluorophore were excited at 488 nm and detected at 530 nm. Substrate conversion was calculated from the electrophoregram using HTS Well Analyzer software Caliper Life Sciences Hopkinton Mass. . Ki values for the test compound were calculated.

BaF3 parental line was obtained from the DSMZ repository. BaF3 lines transfected with PIM1 or PIM2 were generated. Mouse IL 3 was purchased from R D Systems. G418 was purchased from Clontech. Media for BaF3 parental line contained RPMI 10 FBS 2 mM L Glutamine 2 ng mL mIL 3. Media for BaF3 PIM1 2 lines contained RPMI 10 FBS 2 mM L Glutamine 250 g mL. Media for MM1.S line contained RPMI 10 FBS 2 mM L Glutamine.

BaF3 parental cells BaF3 PIM1 cells BaF3 PIM2 cells and MM1.S cells were seeded at 2 k well 5 k well 5 k well and 10 k well respectively in a 384 well plate at 45 L well. Test compound was added at 5 L well. BaF3 cells parental and transfected were incubated overnight while MM1.S cells were incubated for 72 hours at 37 C. 5 CO. Cell Titer Glo Reagent Promega was added at 50 L well the plates were incubated for 30 minutes and their luminescence read on an HT Analyst. IC ECvalues for the test compound were calculated.

Representative compounds of the present invention were tested in assays described in EXAMPLES i and ii as described above and found to exhibit a Ki IC ECas shown below. Table 5 includes representative biochemical binding and in vitro cell proliferation data for the exemplary Compounds I 66.

Multiple myeloma cell lines used in the combination experiments of include EJM KMS.11 KMS.12.BM LP 1 MM1.S MOLP 8 NCI H929 OPM2 RPMI8226 U266 AMO 1 JJN3 Karpas620 KMS.12.PE L363 MOLP 2 SKMM2 KMM1 KMS.20 KMS.21 KMS.26 KMS.27 KMS.28.BM KMS.28.PE and KMS.34.

Preparation of compound ethyl 2 amino 2 cyanoacetate To a stirred solution of E ethyl 2 cyano 2 hydroxyimino acetate 20 g 0.14 mol in water 250 mL was added a saturated solution of NaHCOin water 160 mL followed by the addition of NaSO 60 g 0.423 mol . The reaction mixture was warmed up to 35 C. and stirred for additional 2 hr. It was then saturated with NaCl 150 g and extracted with DCM 3 350 mL . Combined organic layers were washed with brine dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give ethyl 2 amino 2 cyanoacetate as a red oil 7.8 g 43 that was used at the next step without additional purification. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 4.45 s 1H 4.34 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 1.36 t J 7.0 Hz 3H MS ESI m z 129 M H .

Preparation of compound ethyl 2 benzamido 2 cyanoacetate To a stirred solution of compound ethyl 2 amino 2 cyanoacetate 0.64 g 5 mmol in DCM 15 mL was added a saturate solution of NaHCOin water 15 mL . With vigorously stirring benzoyl chloride 0.84 g 6 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for additional 30 min at which time it was extracted with DCM 3 15 mL . Combined organic layers were washed with brine 20 mL and dried over NaSO filtered concentrated in vacuo. Resulted residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 5 1 PE EtOAc to afford ethyl 2 benzamido 2 cyanoacetate 0.25 g 22 as white solid H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 7.83 7.85 m 2H 7.59 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.49 t J 7.5 Hz 2H 7.02 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 5.72 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 4.40 q J 7.5 Hz 2H 1.39 t J 7.0 Hz 3H MS ESI m z 233 M H .

Preparation of compound ethyl 5 amino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylate To a stirred solution of compound ethyl 2 benzamido 2 cyanoacetate 0.46 g 2 mmol in pyridine 20 mL was added Lawesson s reagent 0.81 g 2 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 15 hr. It was then concentrated and diluted with EtOAc 40 mL . The diluted mixture was washed with water 3 20 mL brine 10 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 10 1 PE EtOAc to afford ethyl 5 amino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylate 0.2 g 40 as yellow solid H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 7.80 d J 6.5 Hz 1H 7.36 7.41 m 3H 4.43 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 1.44 t J 7.0 Hz 3H MS ESI m z 249 M H .

Preparation of compound ethyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylate To a solution of compound ethyl 5 amino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylate 248 mg 1 mmol in CHCN 10 mL was added DMAP 6 mg 0.05 mmol followed by Boc O 262 mg 1.2 mmol . The reaction mixture was maintained at ambient temperature for additional 30 min. The mixture was then evaporated in vacuo to give compound ethyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylate as a red solid 340 mg 95 that was used at the next step without further purification.

Preparation of compound 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid To a solution of compound ethyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylate 348 mg 1 mmol in MeOH HO 10 mL 1 1 was added LiOH.HO 20 mg 5 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 50 55 C. until starting material disappeared from TLC. It was cooled at 0 4 C. and conc. HCl added dropwise until pH 5. The resulted mixture was then extracted with DCM 3 20 mL . Combined organic layers were washed with brine 2 20 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 50 1 DCM MeOH to give the desired product 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid 0.22 g 68 as white solid H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.69 s 1H 7.89 7.91 m 2H 7.46 7.47 m 3H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 321 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 fluorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.70 s 1H 8.19 8.23 m 1H 7.42 7.45 m 1H 7.20 7.30 m 2H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 339 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 6 difluorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDOD 500 MHz ppm 7.42 7.46 m 1H 7.06 t J 8.5 Hz 2H 1.47 s 9H MS ESI m z 355 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 chlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 chlorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR DMSO 500 MHz ppm 13.57 s 1H 10.05 s 1H 8.14 8.17 m 1H 7.63 7.65 m 1H 7.49 7.51 m 2H 1.53 s 9H MS ESI m z 355 M H .

2 5 bromo 2 fluorophenyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 5 bromo 2 fluorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.70 s 1H 8.32 8.34 m 1H 7.49 7.52 m 1H 7.09 7.13 m 1H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 418 M H .

2 5 bromo 2 chlorophenyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 5 bromo 2 chlorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.70 s 1H 8.31 d J 2.5 Hz 1H 7.47 dd J 2.5 Hz J 8.5 Hz 1H 7.35 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 433 M H .

2 3 bromophenyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 3 bromobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.68 s 1H 8.08 s 1H 7.78 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.56 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.32 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 399 M H .

2 4 bromo 2 fluorophenyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 4 bromo 2 fluorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.67 s 1H 8.07 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.42 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 417 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 pyridin 2 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 except the following modification. Preparation of ethyl 2 cyano 2 picolinamido acetate to a solution of picolinic acid 1.23 g 10 mmol EDC.HCl 1.91 g 10 mmol and HOBT 1.35 g 10 mmol in THF 80 mL was added DIPEA 3.6 g 30 mmol at ambient temperature. The reaction mixture was maintained at the same temperature for 1 hr at which time a solution of ethyl 2 amino 2 cyanoacetate 1.28 g 10 mmol in THF 5 mL was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for additional 6 hr. It was then concentrated and the residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 5 1 PE EtOAc to give ethyl 2 cyano 2 picolinamido acetate 0.7 g 30 as yellow solid. 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 pyridin 2 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.72 s 1H 8.61 d J 4.5 Hz 1H 8.09 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.81 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.34 dd J 5.5 Hz J 7.0 Hz 1H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 322 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 isopropylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from isobutyryl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.54 s 1H 3.16 3.21 m 1H 1.54 s 9H 1.37 d J 7.0 Hz 6H MS ESI m z 287 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 cyclohexylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from cyclohexanecarboxylic acid chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.53 s 1H 2.84 2.89 m 1H 2.08 2.12 m 2H 1.84 dd J 3.5 Hz J 10.0 Hz 2H 1.73 d J 13.0 Hz 1H 1.53 s 9H 1.35 1.50 m 4H 1.25 1.27 m 1H MS ESI m z 327 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 o tolylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 methylbenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDOD 500 MHz ppm 7.34 s 1H 7.13 7.22 m 3H 2.32 s 3H 1.43 s 9H MS ESI m z 335 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 methoxyphenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 methoxybenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDOD 500 MHz ppm 9.63 s 1H 8.27 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.42 t J 8.0 Hz 1H 7.09 t J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.04 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 351 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 trifluoromethyl phenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 trifluoromethyl benzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDOD 500 MHz ppm 7.76 d J 7.5 Hz 1H 7.58 7.64 m 3H 1.46 s 9H MS ESI m z 389 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 methylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from acetyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.62 s 1H 2.62 s 3H 1.54 s 9H MS ESI m z 259 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 except the following modification. Preparation of ethyl 2 cyano 2 formamidoacetate under N HCOOH 2.44 g 53 mmol was added to AcO 6.48 g 63.6 mmol at 0 C. After it was allowed to warm to ambient temperature the reaction was heated at 50 C. for 15 hr. It was allowed to cool to ambient temperature. This mixed acid anhydride was then added dropwise to a solution of ethyl 2 amino 2 cyanoacetate 128 mg 1 mmol in dry THF 5 mL at 0 C. After the cooling bath was removed the reaction was maintained at ambient temperature for additional 1 hr. The reaction mixture was concentrated and purified by silica gel column chromatography 5 1 PE EtOAc to afford ethyl 2 cyano 2 formamidoacetate 110 mg 70 as a white solid.

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.70 s 1H 8.29 s 1H 1.55 s 9H MS ESI m z 245 M H .

To a solution of 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid 1.72 g 10 mmol in DCM 50 mL was added in three portions NBS 1.95 g 11 mmol the reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 h. Reaction was concentrated in vacuo resulted residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography 6 1 Pet ether EtOAc to afford 2 bromo 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid 1.75 g 70 as white solid H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 13.65 s 1H 10.03 s 1H 1.49 s 9H . MS ESI m z 324 M H 

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 5 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 5 difluorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.68 s 1H 7.87 7.91 m 1H 7.15 7.26 m 1H 7.08 7.13 m 1H 1.57 s 9H MS ESI m z 357 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 4 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 4 difluorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.66 s 1H 8.16 8.21 m 1H 6.95 7.04 m 2H 1.62 s 9H MS ESI m z 357 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 3 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 3 difluorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDOD 400 MHz ppm 7.45 s 1H 7.07 7.16 m 2H 1.42 s 9H MS ESI m z 357 M H .

2 benzyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 2 phenylacetyl chloride using the above general procedures H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.63 s 1H 7.27 7.35 m 5H 4.25 s 2H 1.50 s 9H MS ESI m z 335 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 quinolin 7 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from quinoline 7 carbonyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR DMSO 500 MHz ppm 10.14 s 1H 9.11 d J 5 Hz 1 h 8.68 s 1H 8.55 s 1H 8.21 8.25 m 2H 7.75 7.77 m 1H 1.54 s 9H MS ESI m z 372 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 imidazo 1 2 a pyridin 2 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from imidazo 1 2 a pyridine 2 carbonyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR DMSO 500 MHz ppm 10.12 s 1H 8.58 d 5 Hz 1H 8.45 s 1H 7.61 d 5 Hz 1H 7.31 7.34 m 1H 6.97 6.99 m 1H 1.53 s 9H MS ESI m z 361 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 tert butylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from pivaloyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 9.55 s 1H 1.55 s 9H 1.42 s 9H MS ESI m z 301 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 3 chlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 3 chlorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR DMSO 500 MHz ppm 9.67 s 1H 7.91 s 1H 7.72 d J 7 Hz 1H 7.38 7.40 m 2H 1.56 s 9H MS ESI m z 355 M H .

5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 4 chlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid was prepared from 4 chlorobenzoyl chloride using procedures analogous to those described above and in Scheme 1 H NMR DMSO 500 MHz ppm 9.66 s 1H 7.81 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 7.42 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 1.56 s 9H MS ESI m z 355 M H .

Preparation of compound 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenyl 1H imidazole 4 carboxylic acid Benzothioamide 1.37 g 10 mmol and benzylbromide 1.71 g 10 mmol in dry THF were heated to 60 C. for 2 h. After it was allowed to cool to room temperature the reaction mixture was filtered. The desired benzyl benzimidothioate hydrobromide as a white solid 2 g 65 without further purification. To a solution of benzyl benzimidothioate hydrobromide 1.54 g 5 mmol in dry CHClwas added in one portion dry pyridine 5 mmol at ambient temperature followed by ethyl 2 amino 2 cyanoacetate 0.64 g 5 mmol . The reaction mixture was then heated to 65 C. for 2 h. After cooling to room temperature the mixture was filtered to give the ethyl 5 amino 2 phenyl 1H imidazole 4 carboxylate as a yellow colored solid 0.8 g 68 . This solid 0.46 g 2 mmol was added with dry THF BocO 0.87 g 4 mmol DMAP 24 mg 0.2 mmol . The reaction was heated to 65 C. for 5 h. The solvent was evaporated in vacuo to give crude product. This crude product was then dissolved in MeOH HO 30 mL 1 1 and LiOH was added in one portion. The reaction mixture was heated at 70 C. until starting material disappeared by TLC 4 h . The mixture was then cooled to 0 4 C. and 1N aq HCl was added cautiously dropwise until pH 5. The resulted mixture was extracted with DCM 3 20 mL . Combined organic layers were washed with brine 2 20 mL dried over NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by prep HPLC. The desired product 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenyl 1H imidazole 4 carboxylic acid was obtained as white solid 0.1 g 16 . H NMR DMSO 500 MHz ppm 9.01 s 1H 8.05 s 2H 7.35 7.42 m 3H 1.45 s 9H MS ESI m z 304 M H .

Preparation of compound 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenyloxazole 4 carboxylic acid To a stirred solution of ethyl 2 benzamido 2 cyanoacetate 1.16 g 5 mmol in dry dioxane 20 mL was added a solution of HCl in dioxane 4.0 M 20 mL . The resulting mixture was heated at reflux for 10 h. After the solvent was evaporated in vacuo the desired product ethyl 5 amino 2 phenyloxazole 4 carboxylate was obtained as a white solid 0.5 g 50 . Boc protection followed by hydrolysis of ethyl 5 amino 2 phenyloxazole 4 carboxylate 0.5 g 2.2 mmol using the same procedures described above gave the desired molecule 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenyloxazole 4 carboxylic acid 320 mg 22 overall yield H NMR DMSO 500 MHz ppm 13.09 s 1H 9.80 s 1H 7.89 7.92 m 2H 7.56 7.57 m 3H 1.46 s 9H MS ESI m z 248 M H .

To a 50 mL round bottom flask containing 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid 250 mg 739 umol S tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 216 mg 739 umol and HATU 562 mg 1.48 mmol were added methylene chloride 10 mL and diisopropylethylamine 0.382 g 2.96 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred for 24 hr at room temperature and the reaction was monitored by LCMS. Upon completion of the reaction the solvent was distilled off and the crude material was purified via flash chromatography heptane ethyl acetate 20 to 80 to afford yellow oil 381 mg 84 .

In a 50 mL round bottom flask was added protected amide from the step above 381 mg 622 umol methylene chloride 5 mL and trifluoroacetic acid 3 mL 39.6 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min and the solvent was distilled off. The crude product was purified via reverse phase HPLC 40 to 80 MeOH in water with 0.1 NHOH to afford S 5 amino N 4 3 aminopiperidin 1 yl pyridin 3 yl 2 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamide as a white solid 200 mg 78 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.37 s 1H 8.19 ddd J 9.5 7.9 3.5 2H 7.62 s 2H 7.48 ddd J 7.1 6.3 1.7 1H 7.38 ddd J 12.5 10.0 4.3 2H 7.15 d J 5.3 1H 3.15 dd J 17.4 8.0 1H 3.00 dd J 9.6 4.6 2H 2.70 2.58 m 1H 2.47 2.38 m 1H 1.95 1.65 m 3H 1.18 td J 15.3 4.2 1H ESIMS m z 413.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 chlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 16.3 mg 27 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.36 s 1H 8.21 t J 6.5 2H 7.69 7.53 m 2H 7.53 7.40 m 2H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 3.14 d J 11.4 1H 3.00 d J 9.3 2H 2.72 2.59 m 1H 2.56 2.39 m 1H 1.93 1.63 m 2H 1.27 1.12 m 2H ESIMS m z 429.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 12.4 mg 23 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.37 s 1H 8.32 s 0H 8.21 d J 5.2 1H 7.65 s 1H 7.54 dt J 14.7 7.3 1H 7.28 t J 8.8 2H 7.12 d J 5.3 1H 3.11 d J 10.3 1H 2.97 t J 13.7 2H 2.64 2.54 m 1H 2.47 2.38 m 1H 1.86 t J 16.9 1H 1.72 s 2H 1.18 d J 19.1 1H . ESIMS m z 431.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 5 bromo 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 21.6 mg 37 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.33 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.3 1H 8.12 dd J 18.6 10.2 1H 7.82 7.52 m 4H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 3.13 d J 10.6 1H 3.01 dd J 16.0 10.9 2H 2.67 t J 10.0 2H 1.98 1.62 m 3H 1.32 1.11 m 1H ESIMS m z 493.1 M 2 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 5 bromo 2 chlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 2.1 mg 3.5 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.49 s 1H 9.19 s 1H 8.56 d J 2.1 1H 8.31 d J 5.7 1H 7.97 s 3H 7.71 s 2H 7.60 dt J 22.2 5.5 2H 7.28 7.15 m 1H 7.01 d J 51.1 1H 3.33 s 3H 2.99 s 2H 2.06 s 1H 1.91 s 1H 1.77 d J 12.7 1H 1.59 d J 9.3 1H . ESIMS m z 509.1 M 2 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 3 bromophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 19.2 mg 32 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.41 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.2 1H 8.12 s 1H 7.65 dd J 30.5 7.9 4H 7.43 t J 7.9 1H 7.15 d J 5.3 1H 3.18 2.98 m 2H 2.72 2.56 m 2H 2.42 t J 10.0 1H 2.01 d J 12.2 1H 1.92 1.77 m 2H 1.20 d J 7.0 1H . ESIMS m z 475.1 M 2 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 3 mg 4.9 . ESIMS m z 395.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 methylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 5.3 mg 8.2 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.32 s 1H 8.29 s 1H 8.18 d J 5.3 1H 7.23 d J 11.3 2H 7.08 d J 5.3 1H 3.19 2.93 m 5H 2.66 dd J 10.5 8.7 1H 2.47 s 3H 1.81 dddd J 24.0 20.5 13.2 7.1 3H 1.41 1.17 m 1H . ESIMS m z 333.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 pyridin 2 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 18.5 mg 30 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.34 s 1H 8.57 d J 4.7 1H 8.35 s 0H 8.22 d J 5.3 1H 8.03 d J 8.0 1H 7.95 td J 7.7 1.6 1H 7.72 s 2H 7.41 dd J 6.3 5.0 1H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 3.20 2.94 m 3H 2.76 2.61 m 2H 2.00 1.70 m 3H 1.25 dd J 22.2 11.6 1H . ESIMS m z 396.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 19.4 mg 39 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.30 s 1H 8.19 d J 5.3 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.37 s 2H 7.08 d J 5.3 1H 3.11 d J 11.1 2H 3.04 2.88 m 3H 2.63 ddd J 13.9 9.6 2.3 2H 2.42 dd J 11.0 9.1 1H 1.88 dd J 9.3 4.8 1H 1.83 1.61 m 2H 1.19 td J 14.2 4.2 1H . ESIMS m z 319.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 pyridin 3 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 7.5 mg 12 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.34 s 1H 9.04 d J 2.2 1H 8.60 dd J 4.8 1.4 1H 8.22 d J 5.2 1H 8.19 8.11 m 1H 7.69 s 2H 7.52 dd J 8.0 4.8 1H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 3.20 2.92 m 4H 2.75 2.60 m 1H 2.45 dd J 11.0 9.2 2H 1.99 1.63 m 1H 1.21 td J 14.3 4.1 1H . ESIMS m z 396.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 4 chlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 21.3 mg 32 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.35 s 1H 8.35 8.17 m 1H 7.83 d J 8.6 2H 7.65 s 1H 7.56 d J 8.6 2H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 3.07 ddd J 37.6 28.3 11.1 4H 2.67 t J 9.8 1H 2.33 s 0H 1.82 ddd J 38.8 30.3 11.9 3H 1.25 d J 8.3 1H . ESIMS m z 429.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 3 chlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compoundn was obtained as a white solid 21.0 mg 31 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.36 d J 24.2 1H 8.22 d J 5.2 1H 7.96 s 1H 7.84 7.60 m 2H 7.58 7.42 m 2H 7.15 d J 5.3 1H 3.22 2.95 m 4H 2.75 2.59 m 1H 1.97 d J 12.9 1H 1.94 1.70 m 2H 1.32 1.11 m 1H . ESIMS m z 429.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid and 3 aminopyridine the title compound was obtained as a white solid 21.0 mg 42 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.78 s 1H 8.99 d J 2.4 1H 8.30 8.18 m 2H 7.95 7.88 m 2H 7.59 s 2H 7.53 7.32 m 4H . ESIMS m z 297.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 trifluoromethoxy phenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 12.9 mg 16 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.34 s 1H 8.31 dd J 7.7 2.2 1H 8.22 d J 5.3 1H 7.79 7.47 m 5H 7.14 d J 5.3 1H 3.13 d J 11.2 1H 3.00 dd J 16.1 6.8 2H 2.73 2.58 m 1H 2.42 dd J 10.9 9.2 1H 1.99 1.61 m 3H 1.17 td J 15.0 4.4 1H . ESIMS m z 479.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 tert butylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 21.0 mg 34 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.40 s 1H 9.21 s 1H 8.19 d J 5.2 1H 7.28 s 2H 7.11 d J 5.3 1H 3.10 d J 10.7 2H 3.07 2.88 m 1H 2.69 2.54 m 1H 2.47 2.25 m 1H 2.00 1.61 m 3H 1.34 s 9H 1.21 ddd J 23.2 10.9 3.8 1H . ESIMS m z 375.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid and 3 amino 4 fluoropyridine the title compound was obtained as a white solid 10 mg 19 . H NMRH NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.46 s 1H 9.41 s 1H 8.30 d J 5.2 1H 7.71 s 2H 7.65 d J 5.2 1H 7.54 dq J 8.3 6.4 1H 7.37 7.19 m 2H . ESIMS m z 367.0 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 5 dimethyl carbamoyl 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 16.3 mg 28 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.36 s 1H 8.27 s 1H 8.25 8.17 m 2H 7.65 s 2H 7.53 7.40 m 2H 7.14 d J 5.3 1H 3.08 2.86 m 9H 2.67 q J 9.1 1H 2.48 2.38 m 1H 1.95 1.61 m 3H 1.29 1.11 m 1H . ESIMS m z 484.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 imidazo 1 2 a pyridin 2 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 22 mg 42 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.35 d J 14.9 1H 8.66 d J 6.8 1H 8.25 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.2 1H 7.59 t J 9.1 3H 7.37 7.28 m 1H 7.12 d J 5.3 1H 7.01 6.93 m 1H 3.10 ddd J 41.8 25.5 11.2 4H 2.69 dd J 15.2 6.0 1H 2.05 1.94 m 1H 1.94 1.73 m 2H 1.36 1.16 m 1H . ESIMS m z 435.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 phenyl 1H imidazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 6 mg 10 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.33 s 1H 8.24 8.13 m 1H 7.89 d J 7.3 2H 7.45 t J 7.7 2H 7.34 t J 7.3 1H 7.10 d J 5.3 1H 5.93 s 2H 3.02 d J 11.6 2H 2.71 q J 8.9 3H 1.92 t J 25.0 3H 1.47 s 1H . ESIMS m z 378.2 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 dimethylamino methyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 9.6 mg 19 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.32 d J 20.2 1H 8.18 d J 5.3 1H 7.32 s 2H 7.11 t J 12.8 1H 3.09 d J 10.9 1H 2.96 dd J 8.6 4.3 2H 2.71 2.54 m 2H 2.42 dd J 11.0 8.9 1H 2.23 d J 16.3 5H 1.95 1.62 m 3H 1.21 td J 13.6 4.1 1H . ESIMS m z 376.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 3 carbamoylphenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 4.6 mg 7.8 . ESIMS m z 438.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 5 chloro 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 23 mg 38 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.52 s 1H 9.22 s 1H 8.28 dd J 5.9 3.5 2H 7.98 s 2H 7.70 s 2H 7.57 7.43 m 2H 7.18 d J 5.4 1H 3.39 s 2H 3.09 d J 12.4 1H 2.87 t J 10.1 2H 2.14 2.01 m 1H 1.98 1.86 m 1H 1.79 dd J 9.9 3.7 1H 1.58 dd J 19.1 9.4 1H . ESIMS m z 447.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 4 piperidin 1 yl pyridin 3 amine and 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 36 mg 34 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.40 s 1H 9.35 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.2 1H 7.67 s 2H 7.53 tt J 8.3 6.3 1H 7.29 p J 2.6 2H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 2.90 2.80 m 4H 1.76 1.64 m 4H 1.51 d J 5.3 2H . ESIMS m z 416.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with R tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 8 mg 7.2 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.37 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.2 1H 7.67 s 2H 7.54 ddd J 14.7 8.4 6.3 1H 7.29 t J 8.9 2H 7.12 d J 5.3 1H 3.12 d J 7.6 2H 3.05 2.91 m 2H 1.93 1.79 m 1H 1.72 s 2H 1.29 1.08 m 1H . ESIMS m z 431.1 M 1 .

A septum sealed microwave tube was charged with S tert butyl 1 3 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 50 mg 0.084 mmol 2 6 difluoro 3 ethoxyphenyl boronic acid 169 mg 0.84 mmol Pd dppf Cl 13.6 mg 0.016 mmol 1M NaCO 0.6 mL 14.1 mmol and acetonitrile 3 mL . The mixture was irradiated for 30 min at 120 C. Upon completion of the reaction the solvent was distilled off and the crude material was dissolved in CHCl 5 mL and transferred to a scintillation vial. TFA 0.77 g 6.7 mmol was added and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 min. The solvent was distilled off and the crude product was purified via reverse phase HPLC 40 to 80 MeOH in water with 0.1 NHOH to afford S 5 amino N 4 3 aminopiperidin 1 yl pyridin 3 yl 2 3 ethoxy 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamide as a white solid 4.8 mg 12 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.35 s 1H 8.27 8.16 m 1H 7.66 s 2H 7.28 td J 9.2 5.1 1H 7.23 7.09 m 2H 4.15 q J 7.0 2H 3.06 dd J 41.9 10.8 5H 2.65 dd J 15.7 5.1 1H 1.89 d J 10.1 1H 1.82 1.67 m 2H 1.36 t J 7.0 3H . ESIMS m z 475.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with 2 6 difluoro 3 propyloxyphenyl boronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 4.5 mg 11 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.38 s 1H 8.30 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.3 1H 7.66 s 2H 7.28 td J 9.2 5.2 1H 7.18 t J 9.8 1H 7.12 d J 5.3 1H 4.05 t J 6.4 3H 2.70 2.56 m 2H 2.46 2.30 m 3H 1.90 1.67 m 5H 1.00 t J 7.4 3H . ESIMS m z 489.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with 2 6 difluoro 3 butyloxyphenyl boronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 3 mg 7 . ESIMS m z 503.2 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with 2 6 difluoro 3 isopropyloxyphenyl boronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 6.5 mg 16 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.38 s 1H 8.27 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.3 1H 7.56 dd J 36.1 25.2 4H 7.30 td J 9.2 5.3 1H 7.17 t J 9.8 1H 7.12 d J 5.3 1H 4.60 dt J 12.2 6.1 1H 3.06 dd J 51.1 11.1 3H 2.70 2.56 m 1H 1.84 d J 12.2 1H 1.73 s 2H 1.30 d J 6.0 6H 1.18 s 2H . ESIMS m z 489.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with p tolylboronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 3.7 mg 11 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.38 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.2 1H 7.71 d J 8.2 2H 7.57 s 2H 7.30 d J 8.0 2H 7.14 d J 5.3 1H 3.19 2.96 m 4H 2.65 dd J 15.8 5.1 1H 2.39 2.30 m 3H 2.01 1.88 m 1H 1.88 1.69 m 2H 1.24 d J 7.7 1H . ESIMS m z 409.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with m tolylboronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 8.6 mg 25 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.42 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.2 1H 7.72 s 1H 7.61 s 2H 7.54 d J 7.8 1H 7.36 t J 7.6 1H 7.25 d J 7.5 1H 7.15 d J 5.3 1H 3.20 2.97 m 4H 2.72 2.58 m 1H 2.41 2.33 m 3H 1.93 d J 12.7 1H 1.82 d J 17.4 2H 1.33 1.13 m 1H . ESIMS m z 409.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with 4 3 ethylureido phenylboronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 9.3 mg 23 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.38 s 1H 8.79 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.2 1H 7.66 t J 11.4 2H 7.51 d J 8.7 4H 7.14 d J 5.3 1H 6.29 t J 5.6 1H 3.21 3.05 m 5H 2.99 t J 14.7 1H 2.67 dd J 10.4 6.6 1H 2.00 1.73 m 3H 1.37 1.20 m 1H 1.12 1.02 m 3H . ESIMS m z 481.2 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with pyridin 4 ylboronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 9.6 mg 29 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.32 s 1H 8.66 dd J 4.6 1.5 2H 8.23 d J 5.3 1H 7.74 dd J 4.6 1.6 2H 7.14 d J 5.3 1H 3.08 ddd J 32.9 26.6 11.3 4H 2.77 2.63 m 1H 1.99 1.64 m 3H 1.25 d J 10.3 1H . ESIMS m z 396.2 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 26 and starting with fluoro 4 methoxyphenyl boronic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 16.3 mg 44 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.36 d J 5.9 1H 8.21 d J 5.2 1H 8.06 t J 8.9 1H 7.51 s 2H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 7.07 6.93 m 2H 3.85 s 3H 3.12 d J 11.0 1H 3.05 2.94 m 2H 2.64 ddd J 13.7 8.4 2.3 1H 2.42 dd J 10.9 9.2 1H 1.97 1.65 m 3H 1.26 1.12 m 1H . ESIMS m z 443.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 isopropylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 17.0 mg 26.4 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.39 s 1H 8.18 d J 5.2 1H 7.26 s 2H 7.10 d J 5.2 1H 3.08 dd J 13.7 6.8 2H 3.00 2.93 m 2H 2.59 td J 11.3 3.0 1H 2.39 dd J 10.9 9.2 1H 1.92 1.67 m 3H 1.29 d J 6.9 6H 1.18 dd J 18.9 10.9 1H ESIMS m z 361.2 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 cyclohexylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 13.3 mg 20.0 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.39 s 1H 8.18 d J 5.2 1H 7.24 s 2H 7.10 d J 5.3 1H 3.07 d J 11.2 1H 3.00 2.92 m 2H 2.77 tt J 11.1 3.7 1H 2.57 dt J 8.9 7.0 1H 2.39 dd J 10.8 9.3 1H 2.00 d J 10.7 2H 1.91 1.63 m 7H 1.53 1.28 m 4H 1.21 ddd J 30.3 15.3 6.6 2H ESIMS m z 401.2 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 2 benzyl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 7.1 mg 16.0 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.28 s 1H 8.11 d J 5.3 1H 7.31 7.25 m 4H 7.21 dd J 12.0 5.4 3H 7.01 d J 5.3 1H 4.05 s 2H 3.01 d J 11.2 1H 2.92 2.77 m 2H 2.51 t J 9.0 1H 2.35 2.28 m 1H 1.83 s 1H 1.67 s 1H 1.59 s 1H 1.17 1.04 m 2H ESIMS m z 409.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 methoxyphenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 30.0 mg 32.6 . ESIMS m z 425.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 o tolylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 7.1 mg 16.0 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.33 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.3 1H 7.70 7.65 m 1H 7.56 s 2H 7.38 7.27 m 3H 7.12 d J 5.3 1H 3.13 d J 7.7 1H 3.02 d J 11.9 1H 2.93 2.87 m 1H 2.61 d J 13.6 3H 2.59 s 1H 2.43 2.36 m 1H 1.82 d J 13.1 1H 1.75 1.60 m 2H 1.20 1.07 m 1H ESIMS m z 409.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 5 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 24.0 mg 54.0 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.33 s 1H 8.24 8.16 m 2H 7.54 d J 36.3 2H 7.50 s 1H 7.31 td J 8.5 2.4 1H 7.13 d J 5.3 1H 3.14 d J 11.0 1H 3.05 2.94 m 2H 2.66 dd J 15.7 6.4 1H 1.91 dd J 12.6 3.7 1H 1.80 dd J 16.5 12.9 1H 1.76 s 1H 1.22 td J 14.1 4.3 1H ESIMS m z 431.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 4 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 28.0 mg 51.5 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.31 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.3 1H 7.96 ddd J 9.2 5.6 3.3 1H 7.66 s 2H 7.49 7.40 m 1H 7.34 7.26 m 1H 7.14 d J 5.3 1H 3.14 d J 11.2 1H 3.03 dd J 8.5 4.2 2H 2.68 dd J 16.3 6.1 1H 2.44 dd J 11.0 9.2 1H 1.80 ddd J 34.8 26.0 13.5 3H 1.28 1.13 m 1H ESIMS m z 431.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 3 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 70.6 mg 41.0 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.33 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.3 1H 7.94 dd J 8.0 6.5 1H 7.68 s 2H 7.50 dd J 16.8 8.2 1H 7.35 dd J 12.6 7.6 1H 7.14 d J 5.3 1H 3.13 s 1H 3.08 2.96 m 2H 2.69 2.62 m 1H 2.46 2.41 m 1H 1.93 1.69 m 3H 1.28 1.15 m 1H ESIMS m z 431.1 M 1 .

Following the procedures as described in EXAMPLE 1 and starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 quinolin 6 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid the title compound was obtained as a white solid 10.6 mg 11.9 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.34 s 1H 8.97 dd J 4.2 1.7 1H 8.40 d J 8.1 1H 8.33 s 1H 8.24 d J 5.2 1H 8.12 dt J 16.6 5.1 2H 7.74 s 2H 7.57 dd J 8.2 4.2 1H 7.16 d J 5.3 1H 3.05 d J 11.5 1H 2.76 t J 9.3 1H 2.61 t J 10.2 1H 2.00 s 1H 1.89 s 2H 1.37 s 1H ESIMS m z 446.1 M 1 .

To a mixture of S tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 1.04 g 5.00 mmol and 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxylic acid 1.46 g 5.00 mmol in Methylene chloride 10 mL 200 mmol was added N N Diisopropylethylamine 3.48 mL 20.0 mmol and N N N N Tetramethyl O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl uronium Hexafluorophosphate 2.28 g 6.00 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and the residue was purified on silica eluting with 0 to 5 MeOH in DCM with 1 NHOH 2.41 g 99.9 . ESIMS m z 484.1 M 1 .

In a microwave safe sealed tube was charged a mixture of S tert butyl 1 3 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 96.5 mg 0.2 mmol 2 Fluorophenylboronic acid 33.6 mg 0.24 mmol 1 1 Bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene palladium II chloride 81.7 mg 0.1 mmol 1.00 M of Potassium acetate in Water 0.3 mL 0.3 mmol 1.00 M of Sodium carbonate in Water 0.3 mL 0.3 mmol in acetonitrile 5 mL . The mixture was irradiated at 300 W 110 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was then concentrated and the residue was purified on silica eluting with 0 to 5 MeOH in DCM with 1 NHOH 90.0 mg 90.4 . ESIMS m z 498.2 M 1 .

To a solution of S tert butyl 1 3 2 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 100 mg 0.2 mmol in 1 4 Dioxane 6 mL was added 4.0 M of Hydrogen chloride in 1 4 Dioxane 3 mL . The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The mixture was concentrated and the residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC. 10.7 mg 10.0 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.24 s 1H 8.68 s 1H 8.40 t J 7.1 1H 8.32 8.26 m 2H 7.67 7.61 m 1H 7.53 7.43 m 2H 7.16 d J 5.3 1H 3.04 s 2H 2.75 t J 9.5 1H 2.61 2.54 m 1H 1.92 1.86 m 1H 1.81 d J 4.2 1H 1.73 d J 9.9 1H 1.33 1.23 m 1H ESIMS m z 398.1 M 1 .

Following procedures described above in EXAMPLE 45 using 2 Fluorophenylboronic acid 94.7 mg 0.60 mmol the desired product S tert butyl 1 3 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 15.7 mg 15.2 was obtained after silica gel purification. ESIMS m z 516.2 M 1 .

Following procedures described above in EXAMPLE 45 using 5 tert butyl 1 3 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate the desired product S N 4 3 aminopiperidin 1 yl pyridin 3 yl 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamide 0.7 mg 6.0 was obtained after reverse phase HPLC purification. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.31 s 1H 8.78 d J 8.5 1H 8.28 d J 5.3 1H 7.74 7.64 m 1H 7.39 t J 8.8 2H 7.15 d J 5.3 1H 3.15 d J 7.6 2H 3.03 d J 11.8 1H 2.96 dd J 9.1 4.5 1H 2.64 dd J 14.7 5.8 1H 1.83 dd J 12.4 4.0 1H 1.72 dt J 13.8 6.9 2H 1.18 dt J 15.5 10.0 1H ESIMS m z 416.1 M 1 .

Following procedures described above in EXAMPLE 45 using 5 dimethylcarbamoyl 2 fluorophenylboronic acid 50.6 mg 0.24 mmol the desired product S tert butyl 1 3 2 5 dimethylcarbamoyl 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate 15.7 mg 15.2 was obtained after silica gel purification ESIMS m z 569.3 M 1 .

Following procedures described above in EXAMPLE 45 using 5 tert butyl 1 3 2 5 dimethylcarbamoyl 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate the desired product S N 4 3 aminopiperidin 1 yl pyridin 3 yl 2 5 dimethylcarbamoyl 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxamid 18.3 mg 51.5.0 was obtained after reverse phase HPLC purification. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.28 s 1H 8.70 d J 7.6 1H 8.42 dd J 7.2 2.1 1H 8.28 d J 5.3 1H 7.70 7.63 m 1H 7.58 dd J 11.1 8.5 1H 7.17 d J 5.3 1H 3.18 d J 7.9 2H 3.05 s 3H 2.95 s 3H 2.73 2.65 m 1H 2.43 dd J 11.0 9.3 1H 1.90 1.75 m 2H 1.73 1.61 m 1H 1.23 1.10 m 1H ESIMS m z 469.1 M 1 .

Following procedures described above in EXAMPLE 45 the desired product was obtained as a white powder 37.6 mg 56 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.30 s 1H 8.56 s 1H 8.28 d J 8 Hz 1H 8.07 m 3H 7.58 m 4H 7.16 d J 4 Hz 1H 3.17 m 3H 3.04 m 3H 2.71 m 1H 1.81 m 3H 1.21 m 1H . ESIMS m z 380.1 M 1 .

The title compound was obtained as a by product 13 mg 23 during the synthesis of Example 38. H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 11.50 s 1H 8.72 s 1H 8.09 d J 5.4 Hz 1H 7.28 dd J 6.9 6.0 Hz 5H 7.22 7.16 m 1H 6.92 d J 5.5 Hz 1H 4.08 d J 6.5 Hz 2H 3.50 d J 10.9 Hz 1H 3.09 s 1H 2.51 d J 11.0 Hz 2H 1.90 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 1.60 d J 14.4 Hz 2H 1.29 d J 7.3 Hz 1H . MS ESI m z 505.1 M H .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 difluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid and tert butyl 4 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperazine 1 carboxylate. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 27.0 mg 25 . prepared H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.29 d J 11.1 1H 8.86 s 1H 8.31 d J 5.6 1H 7.71 s 2H 7.64 7.52 m 1H 7.30 t J 8.8 3H 3.26 s 8H . ESIMS m z 417.4 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 45 starting with S tert butyl 1 3 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and pyrazole 3 boronic acid. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 9.2 mg 29 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 13.16 s 1H 9.39 d J 19.6 Hz 1H 8.20 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 7.88 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 7.54 d J 23.5 Hz 2H 7.12 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 6.65 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 3.05 ddd J 27.3 22.4 11.5 Hz 2H 2.50 m J 3.6 1.8 Hz 2H 1.83 m J 18.4 8.5 Hz 3H 1.24 s 2H . ESIMS m z 385.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 bisfluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid and S 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ol. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 111 mg 100 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.37 s 1H 9.30 s 1H 8.21 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 7.67 s 2H 7.59 7.47 m 1H 7.29 t J 8.9 Hz 2H 7.14 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 4.81 d J 4.7 Hz 2H 3.81 3.63 m 3H 3.19 3.07 m 1H 2.99 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 2.61 2.33 m 2H 1.90 d J 12.1 Hz 1H 1.71 m 3H 1.30 1.09 m 2H . ESIMS m z 432.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 fluoro 5 isopropylcarbamoyl phenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid and S tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 5 mg 8 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.37 s 1H 8.61 dd J 7.4 2.2 Hz 1H 8.46 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 8.30 s 1H 8.23 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 7.98 7.86 m 1H 7.69 s 2H 7.48 dd J 11.3 8.7 Hz 1H 7.14 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 4.13 td J 13.5 6.8 Hz 1H 3.20 d J 8.8 Hz 9H 3.01 d J 12.1 Hz 2H 2.70 d J 18.9 Hz 1H 1.89 d J 9.6 Hz 1H 1.78 d J 22.6 Hz 2H 1.40 1.23 m 1H 1.19 d J 6.6 Hz 6H . ESIMS m z 498.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 dimethylphenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid and S tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 8 mg 13 . H NMR 400 MHz DMSO 9.22 s 1H 8.18 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 7.48 s 2H 7.35 7.26 m 1H 7.17 d J 7.7 Hz 2H 7.04 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 3.06 t J 14.4 Hz 1H 2.99 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 2.83 2.66 m 1H 2.64 2.48 m 1H 2.45 2.31 m 1H 2.21 s 6H 1.64 dd J 17.0 6.8 Hz 2H 1.57 1.41 m 1H 1.17 0.95 m 1H . ESIMS m z 423.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 45 starting with S tert butyl 1 3 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 2 chloro 6 fluorophenylboronic acid. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 5 mg 13 . ESIMS m z 447.1 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 45 starting with S tert butyl 1 3 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 4 mg 10 . ESIMS m z 385.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 45 starting with S tert butyl 1 3 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 3 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl imidazo 1 2 a pyridine. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 12 mg 26 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.53 d J 6.8 Hz 1H 9.18 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 8.11 s 1H 7.76 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 7.66 s 2H 7.53 7.41 m 1H 7.12 dd J 12.0 5.6 Hz 2H 3.20 d J 11.5 Hz 1H 3.08 d J 11.6 Hz 1H 2.93 s 1H 2.76 2.59 m 1H 2.48 2.39 m 1H 1.73 d J 9.5 Hz 1H 1.65 s 1H 1.13 d J 9.3 Hz 1H . ESIMS m z 435.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 dichlorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid and S tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 9 mg . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.21 s 1H 8.18 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 7.69 7.60 m 2H 7.56 dd J 8.9 7.3 Hz 3H 7.04 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 3.08 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 2.97 d J 11.9 Hz 1H 2.79 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 2.56 dd J 21.5 11.0 Hz 1H 2.48 2.41 m 1H 1.66 d J 14.0 Hz 2H 1.54 d J 10.1 Hz 1H 1.11 d J 9.8 Hz 1H . ESIMS m z 463.1 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 prop 1 en 2 yl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid and S tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 9 mg . ESIMS m z 359.3 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 cyclopentylthiazole 4 carboxylic acid and S tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 22 mg 48 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.39 s 1H 8.18 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 7.24 s 1H 7.10 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 3.23 m 3H 3.07 d J 10.5 Hz 1H 2.96 d J 9.7 Hz 2H 2.67 2.53 m 2H 2.43 2.34 m 1H 2.03 d J 8.1 Hz 2H 1.87 d J 12.5 Hz 1H 1.84 1.58 m 5H 1.17 d J 13.3 Hz 1H . ESIMS m z 387.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 45 starting with S tert butyl 1 3 2 bromothiazole 4 carboxamido pyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and imidazo 1 2 a pyridin 6 ylboronic acid. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 44 mg 100 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.34 s 1H 9.05 s 1H 8.29 s 1H 8.22 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 8.00 s 1H 7.71 m 5H 7.13 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.00 d J 11.5 Hz 2H 2.81 2.67 m 1H 2.50 dt J 3.6 1.8 Hz 1H 2.01 1.60 m 3H 1.27 d J 35.4 Hz 2H . ESIMS m z 435.1 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with tert butyl 3S 5R 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl 5 fluoropiperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 fluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 50 mg . ESIMS m z 431.1 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with tert butyl 3S 5R 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl 5 fluoropiperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino 2 2 6 bisfluorophenyl thiazole 4 carboxylic acid. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 50 mg . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.25 s 1H 8.18 t J 20.9 Hz 1H 7.64 s 2H 7.53 ddd J 14.8 8.4 6.4 Hz 2H 7.26 t J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.12 d J 5.3 Hz 1H 4.94 d J 46.1 Hz 1H 3.05 dd J 32.9 12.7 Hz 2H 2.66 2.34 m 3H 2.07 s 1H 1.53 dt J 23.8 11.5 Hz 1H . ESIMS m z 449.1 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl pyrrolidin 3 yl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 13.5 mg 32 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.38 s 1H 8.18 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 7.26 s 2H 7.09 d J 5.2 Hz 1H 3.08 d J 10.9 Hz 2H 2.96 d J 11.4 Hz 4H 2.62 d J 17.6 Hz 1H 2.43 2.36 m 1H 2.15 s 1H 1.82 dd J 63.4 20.3 Hz 4H 1.18 d J 11.6 Hz 2H . ESIMS m z 388.2 M 1 .

Followed the procedure as described in EXAMPLE 1 starting with tert butyl 1 3 aminopyridin 4 yl piperidin 3 ylcarbamate and 2 1 tert butoxycarbonyl piperidin 3 yl 5 tert butoxycarbonylamino thiazole 4 carboxylic acid. Obtained the desired product as a white solid 6.4 mg 51 . H NMR 500 MHz DMSO 9.38 s 1H 8.37 s 1H 8.19 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 7.28 s 2H 7.11 d J 5.1 Hz 1H 3.14 dd J 28.4 11.4 Hz 2H 2.94 dd J 51.3 24.0 Hz 4H 2.65 dd J 27.1 13.0 Hz 2H 2.50 2.40 m 1H 2.05 s 1H 1.97 1.56 m 5H 1.47 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 1.24 d J 8.3 Hz 2H . ESIMS m z 402.1 M 1 .

