---

title: Dynamic pattern insertion layer
abstract: Various methods and systems are provided for inserting a user-selected pattern below a main application display when sensitive information is being requested or to be communicated. The border of the main application layer may also be modified at this time, either with or without the underlying pattern. This visual change provides the user an assurance that the application or site is authentic and not a phishing attack. The user-selected patterns are stored in secure areas, such as a secure element on the user device or in a cloud accessible by the application or site.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707048&OS=08707048&RS=08707048
owner: Ebay Inc.
number: 08707048
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100305
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 290 110 filed Dec. 24 2009 and is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to on line security and more particularly to indicating to a user that an application is secure.

An important aspect of any open model such as the Internet is by definition that applications can be written by anybody and not just the original source. The mere fact that a viable business e.g. PayPal eBay etc. has legitimate services to offer on its website does not stop malicious entities from posing as the genuine website and harvest users credentials. This artifact of an open model poses an important security challenge of how to identify and stop a rogue application. An important class of rogue software is phishing applications. Phishing may be defined as the process of attempting to acquire sensitive information such as user credentials i.e. username password credit card details etc. by masquerading as a trustworthy entity. Phishing is a nontrivial problem solutions to which would require multiple entities in various layers of the ecosystem to cooperate and participate. The phishing problem is also prevalent in applications present on devices such as mobile phones and PCs.

With this ever growing problem a user or consumer may be wary of entering sensitive information such as the person s social security number password credit card number etc. without some assurance that the site or application requesting the information is secure. One current method is SiteKey a web based security system that provides one type of mutual authentication between end users and websites. With SiteKey the user is identified to the site by entering a username. If the username is a valid one the site proceeds with authenticating the site to the user by displaying an image and accompanying phrase that was earlier chosen by the user. If the user does not recognize the image and or phrase the user can assume the site is a phishing site. However if the image and phrase are what the user expects the user may consider the site authentic and proceed. The user is then authenticates to the site by entering a password. If the password is valid the user is considered authenticated and is logged in by the site.

However there are weaknesses with SiteKey. One such weakness is that after identification and authentication the image and phrase are no longer visible during the session with the site. In other words there is only a static image at one point in the process e.g. during initial authentication . Thus the user may not be aware or feel confident that the site is still secure such as if an attack occurs during the session.

Therefore a need exists to indicate to the user that an application or site is secure during any portion of a communication with a site in which sensitive or confidential information is being entered by the user.

According to one embodiment of the disclosure when a user is asked to enter sensitive or confidential information in an application or website a previously user selected pattern is displayed as a background image on the device underneath the application if the application is secure or authentic. The background pattern which in one embodiment is dynamic or animated is displayed at all times when sensitive information is conveyed. As a result the user is given a continual visual indication that an application or website is authentic when entering sensitive information. Dynamic as used herein may refer to changing a pattern e.g. replacing one pattern with another a moving pattern e.g. animated or showing motion or a combination of the two.

In one embodiment the user first selects one or more patterns or images to be displayed. The patterns may be selected from a pre determined set of the website or application or specific images provided by the user. If multiple patterns are selected the patterns may be displayed randomly by the device. The application layer may be semi transparent such that the underlying pattern may be visible to the user. In another embodiment the application layer may be shown with a modified border with or without the underlying pattern. The border may be modified with a user selected pattern or other change. Using the modified border with an underlying pattern may provide the user a greater sense of security with the application. The border may be dynamic or static.

The patterns may be imposed on a user interface UI of a security sensitive application and during a secure phase of its execution e.g. when the application is authenticating a user to the website. This is applicable to any device such as a smart phone or PC with a display which can be a standard screen or a touch screen that enables the multi layer UI. The user selected patterns may be stored on a secure element on the device or other secure storage.

Consequently the user is given an easy visual indication if an application is secure and continues to be secure during times when sensitive information is being transmitted or entered by the user.

These and other features and advantages of the present invention will be more readily apparent from the detailed description of the embodiments set forth below taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure and their advantages are best understood by referring to the detailed description that follows. It should be appreciated that like reference numerals are used to identify like elements illustrated in one or more of the figures wherein showings therein are for purposes of illustrating embodiments of the present disclosure and not for purposes of limiting the same.

The pattern is displayed throughout the session in which the sensitive information is being communicated or displayed. Thus if the user initially sees and continues to see a recognizable pattern underneath main display layer the user is visually assured that the site is authentic and that information entered by the user is not subject to phishing by a rogue site. In one embodiment the pattern is dynamic e.g. a static pattern is replaced a pattern is moving or a moving pattern is replaced underneath a static application on main display layer . This may help the user more easily separate content between the two layers resulting in a more user friendly interface with the user application. In an embodiment where the user selects a plurality of patterns one of the patterns may be randomly displayed for each user session or access.

In one embodiment main display layer is semi transparent such that underlying user defined layer is visible to the user while an application is displayed on main display layer . In other embodiments main display layer need not be semi transparent. For example when user defined layer extends beyond main display layer the user can see at least a portion of the underlying pattern even if main display layer is opaque.

Next the user is asked at step to select one or more patterns as part of an authentication process during subsequent sessions. This may be accomplished in any number of ways. For example the user may be presented with a set of patterns from the entity. The patterns may include but is not limited to geometric patterns and shapes images pictures letters and words. The patterns may be dynamic with any type of movement including fading in and out moving randomly about the page defined movement and distortions. The user may be asked to select a specific number of patterns which may range from one to any number. More patterns selected may offer higher security but at a possible cost of the user not remembering all the patterns selected. The actual number may depend on the system the type and number of patterns to choose from the intended users and the security level desired for the applications. Pattern selection may also be accomplished by requesting the user to download user images such as photos or avatars from a user device or site. An optional step may be to have the user confirm the selection s . The selected pattern s are stored in a secure area or a cloud at step . The secure area may be a secure element on the user s device either with or separate from application storage. If the entity does not or cannot access the user s device secure element the selected pattern s may instead be stored in a cloud that is controlled by the entity. Details of secure storage are provided below.

If not sensitive information is requested from the user as determined in step the user is provided with a normal display of the user application or screen at step . In other words if no sensitive information is to be entered by the user there is no change to the user display. However if step determines that sensitive information is requested the user selected pattern s are retrieved at step . For example the user s account or login information may be used to locate the user s previously selected patterns in a secure area such as a secure element on the user s device or in a cloud managed by the system or entity. If more than one pattern was selected one or more patterns may be selected randomly or in their entirety. Once a user selected pattern is determined it is displayed to the user on the user s device at step where the pattern is displayed underneath the main user application layer or display.

As discussed above the user sees both the main user application which may be a display with fields for the user to enter payment or other sensitive information and the underlying pattern layer. The pattern may be dynamic and or the border on the main user application may be modified. While the user sees this change the user is visually assured that the site and application are authentic when entering the sensitive information.

The underlying pattern and or modified border remain visible during any session in which the user is requested to enter sensitive information through the website or application. If as determined at step sensitive information is no longer requested or the user is no longer at a site or application with sensitive information the underlying pattern and or modified border is removed at step . The determination may be from the user pressing or selecting a button for instance the Check Out Complete or Done or Payment Sent or other trigger that sends a signal to the system that sensitive information is no longer being sent. The display is then returned to a conventional or normal display at step .

In contrast using a user defined pattern the user sees a user selected pattern underneath a main application or user display when the user is ready to make a payment such as when button is selected. Main application is semi transparent so that underlying pattern is visible. The user can then enter in application and transmit in application sensitive information when pattern is visible to assure the user that the site requesting and conveying the sensitive information is authentic. Once no more sensitive user information is needed such as indicated by the user selecting a Pay button to transmit the information pattern disappears or is removed. Thus at display the user sees a conventional display.

In other embodiments the user selected patterns can reside in the network e.g. PayPal servers cloud and invoked by the device upon entry to a security sensitive portion of application e.g. obtaining credentials . In this case a fast communication line between the network or entity e.g. PayPal infrastructure and the device may be desirable to ensure the timely display of the patterns. One advantage of having the patterns located in the cloud is allow implementation on devices when there is no secure portion available or when the entity cannot access a secure portion on the device.

Authentication of the application is due in part to the secure area or element and is enforced by the underlying platform. Security relies in part on the trustworthiness of the device to provide a secure area storage execution or both for the user selected patterns as well as secure drivers such as display drivers to ensure all security sensitive parts of the execution path are protected. In different embodiments the security uses existing technologies such as ARM TrustZone and or security ICs such as UICC Secure MicroSD and eSE embedded Secure Element .

In different embodiments changing the frame color or graphics around a window or a field such as underlying a user application that is used to enter or communicate sensitive data is especially important in mobile computing paradigms. This is because of the resource constrained nature of mobile devices as well as the limitations caused by the small size of their screens all of which make incorporating usable and meaningful visual clues challenging. Using embodiments of the present invention provides numerous advantages including 1 verification of third party applications that embed or utilize a payment provider such as PayPal or other entity that handles sensitive information 2 reduction of risk for phishing attacks 3 providing users with a tool to have a stronger control over their security 4 providing users with easy to remember and fast visual ways to judge the validity of a request to gather sensitive information by an application and 5 Enables the payment provider or other entity to enforce changing on the patterns on the fly to make it even more difficult for phishing attacks.

User device merchant server and payment service provider server may each include one or more processors memories and other appropriate components for executing instructions such as program code and or data stored on one or more computer readable mediums to implement the various applications data and steps described herein. For example such instructions may be stored in one or more computer readable media such as memories or data storage devices internal and or external to various components of system and or accessible over network .

Network may be implemented as a single network or a combination of multiple networks. For example in various embodiments network may include the Internet or one or more intranets landline networks wireless networks and or other appropriate types of networks.

User device may be implemented using any appropriate combination of hardware and or software configured for wired and or wireless communication over network . For example in one embodiment user device may be implemented as a smart phone of user in communication with the Internet where user may be a person or entity. In other embodiments user device may be implemented as a personal digital assistant PDA notebook computer PC and or other types of computing devices capable of wireless computing data transmission and data receiving.

As shown user device may include one or more browser applications which may be used for example to provide a convenient interface to permit user to browse information available over network . For example in one embodiment browser application may be implemented as a web browser configured to view information available over the Internet such as a merchant site or shopping site. User device may also include one or more toolbar applications which may be used for example to provide client side processing for performing desired tasks in response to operations selected by user . In one embodiment toolbar application may display a user interface in connection with browser application as further described herein.

In addition user device may include a payment application that enables payments to be processed sent received by the device. Payment processing may be with a merchant or individual.

User device may further include other applications as may be desired in particular embodiments to provide desired features to user device . For example applications may include security applications for implementing client side security features programmatic client applications for interfacing with appropriate application programming interfaces APIs over network or other types of applications. Applications may also include display and processing of images on the device display such as the above described user selected pattern and user application. User device may include one or more user identifiers which may be implemented for example as operating system registry entries cookies associated with browser application identifiers associated with hardware of user device or other appropriate identifiers such as used for payment user device authentication. In one embodiment user identifier may be used by a payment service provider to associate user with a particular account maintained by the payment service provider as further described herein.

Merchant server may be maintained for example by an on line merchant or shopping site offering various products and or services in exchange for payment which may be received over network . Merchant server may include a database identifying available products and or services e.g. collectively referred to as items which may be made available for viewing and purchase by user . Accordingly merchant server also includes a marketplace application which may be configured to serve information over network to browser of user device . In one embodiment user may interact with marketplace application through browser applications over network in order to view various products or services identified in database .

Merchant server may also include a checkout application configured to facilitate the purchase by user of goods or services identified by marketplace application . Checkout application may be configured to accept payment information from user and or from payment service provider server through any number of different funding sources over network .

Payment service provider server may be maintained for example by an online payment service provider which may provide payment on behalf of user to the operator of merchant server or to another user. Payment service provider server may include one or more payment applications configured to interact with user device and or merchant server over network to facilitate the purchase of goods or services by user of user device from merchant server or another user as well as transfer money between entities or individuals.

Payment service provider server also maintains a plurality of user accounts each of which may include account information associated with individual users. For example account information may include private or sensitive information of users of devices such as account numbers passwords phone numbers credit card information bank information user selected patterns or other financial information which may be used to facilitate online transactions by user . Advantageously payment application may be configured to interact with merchant server on behalf of user during a transaction with checkout application to track and manage purchases or money transfers made by users.

Payment application may include a mobile payment processing application which may be configured to receive information from a mobile user device and or merchant server for storage in a payment database . Payment application may be further configured to match data received from a mobile device with information stored in payment database for payment authentication and processing. This data may include the user s device phone number email password and or PIN. A pattern insertion removal application may also be included as part of payment application or separate. Pattern insertion removal application may determine what pattern to select and when to insert and remove the user selected pattern as discussed above.

Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information data signals and information between various components of computer system . Components include an input component that processes a user action such as selecting keys from a keypad keyboard selecting one or more buttons or links etc. and sends a corresponding signal to bus . A transceiver transmits and receives signals between computer system and other devices such as a merchant server payment provider server or another user device. In one embodiment the transmission is wireless although other transmission mediums and methods may also be suitable. A display such as an LCD or touch screen is suitable for displaying an image e.g. user application over another image user selected pattern such as described above. A processor which can be a micro controller digital signal processor DSP or other processing component processes these various signals such as for display on computer system or transmission to other devices via a communication link through a network interface . Processor may retrieve a user selected pattern and process the pattern for display and subsequent removal such as through signals provided by a payment provider.

Components of computer system also include a system memory component e.g. RAM and a static storage component e.g. ROM . Computer system performs specific operations by processor and other components by executing one or more sequences of instructions contained in system memory component . Logic may be encoded in a computer readable medium which may refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. In various implementations non volatile media includes optical or magnetic disks volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory component and transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including wires that comprise bus .

Some common forms of computer readable media includes for example floppy disk flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer is adapted to read. Secure storage elements may be present within or apart from a main storage.

In various embodiments execution of instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure may be performed by computer system . In various other embodiments of the present disclosure a plurality of computer systems coupled by communication link to the network e.g. such as a LAN WLAN PTSN and or various other wired or wireless networks including telecommunications mobile and cellular phone networks may perform instruction sequences to practice the present disclosure in coordination with one another such as accessing a secure portion of a user device by a payment provider to displaying and removing user selected patterns during sensitive information sessions.

Where applicable various embodiments provided by the present disclosure may be implemented using hardware software or combinations of hardware and software. Also where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be combined into composite components comprising software hardware and or both without departing from the spirit of the present disclosure. Where applicable the various hardware components and or software components set forth herein may be separated into sub components comprising software hardware or both without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. In addition where applicable it is contemplated that software components may be implemented as hardware components and vice versa.

Software in accordance with the present disclosure such as program code and or data may be stored on one or more computer readable mediums. It is also contemplated that software identified herein may be implemented using one or more general purpose or specific purpose computers and or computer systems networked and or otherwise. Where applicable the ordering of various steps described herein may be changed combined into composite steps and or separated into sub steps to provide features described herein.

The foregoing disclosure is not intended to limit the present disclosure to the precise forms or particular fields of use disclosed. As such it is contemplated that various alternate embodiments and or modifications to the present disclosure whether explicitly described or implied herein are possible in light of the disclosure. For example insertion and removal of user selected patterns in an underlying layer and or a border may be used with other security measures. For instance some web browsers and security software incorporate various visual clues symbols such as lock icons and color coding sections of their UI that visually inform users of some security characteristics. These visual ideas could all be augmented and enhanced by including the user selected pattern discussed herein. In addition the user selected pattern is described as being inserted as a separate layer underneath the user application. However with some displays it is contemplated that the user application when requesting or communicating sensitive information is modified with a user selected pattern. Thus two separate layers are not needed. Having thus described embodiments of the present disclosure persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Thus the present disclosure is limited only by the claims.

