---

title: Electronic module assembly for filtered feedthroughs
abstract: An electronic module assembly (EMA) for an implantable medical device is disclosed. The EMA includes conductive strips connected to a non-conductive block. The non-conductive block possesses, a top side, a bottom side, a front side and a back side. A seamless non-conductive barrier extends from the bottom side and between the front side and the back side. The barrier prevents a pin from contacting another pin and eliminates welding of the ground pin to the side of the ferrule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08706228&OS=08706228&RS=08706228
owner: Medtronic, Inc.
number: 08706228
owner_city: Minneapolis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100330
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 165 327 filed on Mar. 31 2009. The disclosure of the above application is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to implantable medical devices and more particularly to a filtered feedthrough electronic module assembly.

Implantable medical devices IMDs typically include a housing that encloses a variety of internal components and protects the components from an implanted environment. For example within the human body the housing is sealed to prevent introduction of fluids or moisture to the internal components of an implantable medical device IMD . In many cases the IMD includes external components that extend outside of the housing and communicate with the internal components.

One example is an implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD which includes an internal battery at least one charging capacitor and electronic circuitry. The electronic circuitry typically is coupled to pacing and or diagnostic leads that extend outside of the device housing for positioning within or near the targeted tissue such as the heart. To protect internal components while permitting electrical connections with external components the ICD includes a connector body coupled to a filtered feedthrough electronic module assembly FFEMA . FFEMA ensures that a seal exists between the electronic components inside and outside of the implantable medical device. FFEMA comprises an electronic module assembly EMA and a feedthrough assembly. The feedthrough pins which extend from the feedthrough assembly are laser welded to conductive strips on the EMA. A further processing step includes welding at least one of the feedthrough pins to a ferrule which forms the ground connection for the feedthrough assembly.

Yet another manufacturing processing operation involves adhering the ferrule to the EMA through epoxy. Moreover an operator will occasionally incorrectly connect the EMA to the feedthrough assembly before applying the epoxy between the EMA and the ferrule. Incorrect assembly of the feedthrough assembly and the EMA can sometimes result in the EMA and or feedthrough assembly being discarded.

Efforts to simplify or reduce the complexity cost and time of the manufacturing and assembly process can directly impact the cost of the implantable medical device for patients. Accordingly more simple and cost effective device assembly processes for implantable medical devices are desirable.

The following description is merely exemplary in nature and is not intended to limit the present disclosure application or uses. The devices described herein include an exemplary number of leads etc. One will understand that the components including number and kind may be varied without altering the scope of the disclosure. Also devices according to various embodiments may be used in any appropriate diagnostic or treatment procedure including a cardiac procedure.

An implantable medical device IMD is disclosed. The IMD includes a housing a connector body and a filtered feedthrough electronic module assembly FFEMA . The housing is connected to the connector body and the FFEMA. The FFEMA comprises a filtered feedthrough assembly connected to an electronic module assembly EMA . The EMA includes conductive strips connected to either a top side a bottom side a front side or a back side of a non conductive block. In one or more embodiments a seamless non conductive barrier extends from the bottom side and between the front side and the back side of the non conductive block. The barrier prevents a pin from contacting another pin and eliminates welding of the ground pin to the side of the ferrule.

In one or more embodiments the EMA s non conductive block can include protruding members in order to form a snap fit to the apertures located in the ferrule of the feedthrough assembly.

With reference to an implantable medical device IMD can include implantable pacemakers implantable cardioverter defibrillator ICD devices cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator devices neurostimulators drug pumps or combinations thereof. Exemplary IMDs are commercially available as including one generally known to those skilled in the art such as the Medtronic CONCERTO SENSIA VIRTUOSO RESTORE RESTORE ULTRA sold by Medtronic Inc. of Minnesota. IMD can include an implantable case housing or body assembly . Implantable case can be formed of appropriate materials and include appropriate features such as a hermetically sealed body wall . Body wall comprises substantially conductive material such as titanium.

Contained within or associated with case can be a power device such as one or more batteries and or capacitors encased in housing or case body wall a controller assembly and a connector body . Controller assembly can include a circuit board having a processor memory transmitter receiver and or other appropriate portions. Connector body can extend from or be integrated with case . At its distal end connector body can include one or more ports that interconnects with one or more connector terminals of one or more lead assemblies . Exemplary connector bodies can include IS 1 connectors IS 4 connectors or other suitable connectors. Lead assemblies generally include respective lead bodies each having a respective tip electrode . For example the first lead assembly can include an active tip electrode and the second lead assembly can include a passive tip electrode

At its distal end connector body is connected via connectors or set screws to lead assemblies . Set screws force lead assemblies in place to form an electrical connection via connector body which at its proximal end is connected to a filtered feedthrough electronic module assembly FFEMA as depicted in . FFEMA electrically connects circuitry inside a sealed case of the IMD to a connector body which connects with external components that extend outside of the housing. FFEMA comprises an electronic module assembly EMA connected to a feedthrough assembly . The EMA is composed of a non conductive block referred to as an electronic module block EMB with a set of conductive strips or conductive elements connected to the EMB.

EMB includes a top side a bottom side a front side a back side and shortened ends . Top side shown in possesses a flat or substantially flat surface. A number of openings or apertures are defined through the body between top and bottom sides respectively. The openings are capable of accepting or receiving feedthrough pins or conductors. EMB is formed of for example silicone polyurethane and or other suitable material.

Referring to and EMB includes a non conductive or insulative barrier that forms a portion of a substantially cylindrical case for housing or receiving a ground pin which prevents ground pin from contacting the remaining feedthrough pins . Barrier is integrally and or seamlessly formed as part of EMB . Barrier is located directly adjacent to or at an interior end to one of the shortened ends of EMB . Barrier possesses a thickness designated as X. Barrier can comprise the same material as EMB or other suitable polymeric material used for example in a two shot molding process. By including barrier in EMB manufacturing processes are simplified efficient and costs are reduced to create an IMD for a patient. For example barrier creates a self alignment feature for ground pin . Additionally barrier eliminates formation of a separate insulative sheath that is separately applied to the ground pin

After EMB is formed with barrier EMA and feedthrough assembly are conventionally formed. For example a set of conductive strips are electrically and mechanically coupled to the EMB which forms EMA . Feedthrough assembly depicted in is conventionally formed and connected to EMA in order to create FFEMA . Each multipolar feedthrough element includes a feedthrough member conductor or pin a ferrule a capacitive element an insulator member or element not shown and conductive material not shown also referred to as a conductive element . An exemplary multipolar feedthrough element that shows the configuration of the insulator member and conductive material around the pin may be seen with respect to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 183 593 filed Jul. 31 2008 entitled NOVEL CAPACITIVE ELEMENTS AND FILTERED FEEDTHROUGH ASSEMBLIES FOR IMPLANTABLE MEDICAL DEVICES and assigned to the assignee of the present invention the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety herein.

Suitable materials for feedthrough members and ferrule can include titanium niobium platinum platinum iridium molybdenum zirconium tantalum or alloys thereof. The insulator element can comprise an insulative material such as glass ceramic or other suitable materials. The conductive material can be a conductive epoxy a conductive polyimide a conductive solder or other suitable materials. An exemplary conductive epoxy can be Ablebond 8700E commercially available from Ablestik Inc. located in Rancho Dominguez Calif. an exemplary conductive polyimide can include Ablebond 71 1 from Ablestik Inc. and exemplary conductive solders can be indium based tin based gold based solder and or lead based.

The electrically grounded ferrule holds or supports an array of feedthrough pins extending through the ferrule . A monolithic discoidal capacitor assembly is positioned around at least some of the feedthrough pins . The capacitor assembly is held together by a monolithic body. The capacitor assembly is electrically connected between a feedthrough pin and ground such as to the ferrule to provide low pass electromagnetic interference EMI filtering. EMA can be positioned over the feedthrough pins and the discoidal capacitor assembly as shown in . Feedthrough pins pass through holes or apertures and contact the conductive strips on the EMA . Feedthrough pins are then trimmed flush to the conductive strips and laser welded such that the trimmed pins make an electrical connection to the conductive strips . Thereafter as shown in a conductive ribbon or weld connects one or more feedthrough pins to one or more corresponding bond pads on a hybrid assembly or circuit board .

Another set of embodiments are depicted relative to . In one or more embodiments EMB includes one or more protruding members or tabs which can mate with holes or apertures in ferrule in order to form a snap fit mating configuration. A snap fit mating configuration can produce a snapping or clicking sound once two objects are coupled together. Referring briefly to protruding member is configured to easily form a snap fit with ferrule . Referring to in one or more embodiments protruding member can be substantially trapezoidal in shape however other suitable shapes may also be used. In one or more embodiments protruding member extends from end of EMB . Protruding member can include a slanted surface substantially straight surfaces along with two opposing exterior surfaces . Opposing surfaces can be substantially straight or curved. Slanted surface can possess a length of about 0.25 mm and can range from 0.1 mm to 1.5 mm. Slanted surface can possess an angle relative to horizontal line . In one or more embodiments angle is about 48 degrees . Substantially straight surface in one or more embodiments can possess a length of about 0.9 mm and can range from about 0.8 mm to about 2 mm. It is appreciated that a variety of other sizes or dimensions can be useful in forming protruding member .

As shown in protruding members extend through apertures of ferrule to form a snap fit mating configuration. In this embodiment two protruding members are depicted. However it can be appreciated that one two or more protruding members can be implemented on back side of EMB . Additionally one or more protruding members can be formed in the exterior of shortened ends . By forming a snap fit mating configuration between EMB and ferrule the manufacturing process is simplified and the FFEMA maybe improved. For example a process that involves adhering EMB to ferrule is eliminated which reduces time and materials used to form the present mating configuration between EMB and ferrule .

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain disclosed embodiments the disclosed embodiments are presented for purposes of illustration and not limitation and other embodiments of the invention are possible. It will be appreciated that various changes adaptations and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit of the invention and the scope of the appended claims.

