---

title: Embedding variable fields in individual email messages sent via a web-based graphical user interface
abstract: Method and system of present invention provide a web-based graphical user interface to a remote user for sending electronic messages, where the interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields (“to” and “cc”), obtain a set of data, comprising a list of two or more recipients in visible fields, a message subject and/or a message body, where the message subject and/or the message body contain a markup indicating variable field, and generate and transmit individual electronic messages.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08572496&OS=08572496&RS=08572496
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 08572496
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 796 597 Method and System for a User Sending Individual Email Messages via a Web Based Graphical User Interface filed Jun. 8 2010.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 796 597 is a continuation in part of the following patent applications 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 768 675 Method and System for Sending Individual Email Messages filed Apr. 27 2010.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 768 681 Method and System for Declining Outgoing Email Messages filed Apr. 27 2010.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 768 688 Tools for Sending Individual Email Messages filed Apr. 27 2010.

The subject matter of all patent applications is commonly owned and assigned to Go Daddy Operating Company LLC. All prior and concurrent applications are incorporated herein in their entirety by reference.

The present invention relates in general to electronic mail systems and methods and in particular to systems and methods for sending individual email messages via web based email interface.

Users of computer networks such as corporate networks or the Internet routinely send electronic messages to each other. Electronic messages may contain for example text images links and attachments. Electronic mail or email is one of the most widely used methods of communication over the Internet due to the variety of data that may be transmitted the large number of available recipients speed low cost and convenience.

Email messages may be sent for example between friends family members or between coworkers thereby substituting for traditional letters and office correspondences in many cases. This is made possible because the Internet has very few restrictions on who may send emails the number of emails that may be transmitted and who may receive the emails. The only real hurdle for sending emails is the requirement that the sender must know the email address also called network mailbox of the intended recipient.

Email messages travel across the Internet typically passing from server to server at amazing speeds achievable only by electronic data. The Internet provides the ability to send an email anywhere in the world often in less than a few seconds. Delivery times are continually being reduced as the Internet s ability to transfer electronic data improves.

Most Internet users find emails to be much more convenient than traditional mail. Traditional mail requires stamps and envelopes to be purchased and a supply maintained while emails do not require the costs and burden of maintaining a supply of associated products. Emails may also be sent with the click of a few buttons while letters typically need to be transported to a physical location such as a mail box before being sent.

Once a computer and a network connection have been obtained there are typically few additional costs associated with sending emails. This remains true even if millions or more of emails are sent by the same user. Emails thus have the extraordinary power of allowing a single user to send one or more messages to a very large number of people at an extremely low cost.

The Internet has become a very valuable tool for business and personal communications information sharing commerce etc. However some individuals have abused the Internet. Among such abuses are spam and phishing. Spam or unsolicited email is the flooding of the Internet with many copies of the identical or nearly identical message in an attempt to force the message on people who would not otherwise choose to receive it. Most spam is commercial advertising often for dubious products get rich quick schemes or financial or quasi legal services.

A single spam message received by a user uses only a small amount of the user s email account s allotted disk space requires relatively little time to delete and does little to obscure the messages desired by the user. Even a small number of spam messages while still annoying would nonetheless cause relatively few real problems. However the amount of spam transmitted over the Internet is growing at an alarming rate. While a single or small number of spam messages are annoying a large number of spam can fill a user s email account s allotted disk space thereby preventing the receipt of desired email. Also a large number of spam can take a significant amount of time to delete and can even obscure the presence of desired emails in the user s email account.

Spam messages currently comprise such a large portion of Internet communications that they actually cause data transmission problems for the Internet as a whole. Spam creates data log jams thereby slowing the delivery of more desired data through the Internet. The larger volume of data created by spam also requires Internet providers to buy larger and more powerful i.e. more expensive equipment to handle the additional data flow caused by the spam.

Spam has a very poor response rate compared to other forms of advertisement. However since almost all of the costs problems for transmitting and receiving spam are absorbed by the recipient of the spam and the providers of the Internet infrastructure spam nevertheless continues to be commercially viable for a spammer.

Phishing is the luring of sensitive information such as passwords credit card numbers bank accounts and other personal information from an Internet user by masquerading as someone trustworthy with a legitimate need for such information. Often phishing goes hand in hand with spam. The perpetrators send out a large number of email messages to lure as many people as they can to their phishing nets . Typically if a user clicks on the link in the email it takes the user to a webpage that appears very similar to a business that the user might trust. However this webpage is controlled by the perpetrators and any information entered on the webpage will be forwarded to the perpetrators. The perpetrators may use users information to commit fraud or other crimes. Often users information is used for identity theft crimes.

If the user is able to see the URL address of the phishing webpage the user may realize that it does not belong to a business that the user trusts. Phishers use various techniques to disguise their URL addresses. Among such techniques is hiding the true URL address in the phishing email behind some text an address of a reputable business or an image removing the address bar in the Internet browser replacing the address bar of the Internet browser with a fake address bar using IP Internet Protocol numbers instead of a domain name in the URL using domain names that are similar in spelling to the domain names of the reputable businesses using extremely long URL addresses that the beginning of the address would not be plainly visible in the address bar of the Internet browser etc. Also long URL addresses may be harder to analyze thus further helping the perpetrators in obscuring the true location of their phishing webpages.

There are various techniques used for combating spam and phishing. Among them are spam filtering email challenge response systems maintaining white and or black lists for email addresses domain names and IP numbers Internet browser add ons that show the true location of the pages viewed by the user etc.

For many email filtering systems to work properly the sender s email address or at least its domain name part should be correct. Often malicious users forge spoof the sender s email address when they send out spam viruses or phishing email messages.

Even though multiple systems are being used the amount of spam phishing and other Internet abuses is steadily rising. The existing systems identify the trust level of the email senders or analyze the content of the email message. However an email sender may forge its true identity use a temporary email account use an open relay IP to send email messages or use somebody else s computer to send messages if virus or spy software was installed. Also senders of spam and phishing attacks may provide email message content that is not related to the content of the links embedded in the email or they may use content that looks absolutely legitimate. All of these make it very hard to keep track of email addresses and originating IP addresses as well as filtering messages based on their content.

Email is commonly used to send messages to multiple recipients. A sender can place email addresses in to and cc carbon copy fields of the email message. All to and cc recipients will receive the message and will see the other to and cc recipients. If a sender places email addresses in the bcc blind carbon copy field the to and cc recipients would not know that email message was also blindly copied to bcc recipients. Thus the conventional email systems do not allow for sending messages to multiple recipients where each delivered message appears like it was sent specifically or personally to a particular recipient. The indicator that the email message was sent personally to a particular recipient is when the recipient s email address is appearing in the to and cc fields.

Therefore new systems and methods are needed to overcome the limitations of the current systems and methods.

The present invention will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the invention and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art of making and using the invention. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

For the purpose of this disclosure the term visible fields refers to field to recipient and or field cc carbon copy in the electronic message headers or on a graphical user interface. The term visible fields does not refer to field bcc blind carbon copy in the electronic message headers or on the graphical user interface.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the system of the present invention may include a Remote Computer connectively coupled to a Network via a first Communication Link a Server Computer connectively coupled to the Network via a second Communication Link and two or more Recipients connectively coupled to the Network via a third Communication Link . The Remote Computer is typically operated by a remote user or an end user who sends electronic messages to the Recipients . Term remote indicates that typically the Remote Computer is located physically away from the Server Computer . The Remote Computer may include for example a personal computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a cell phone a smart phone a PDA Personal Digital Assistant a palmtop computer a handheld computer a pocket computer a touch screen device an IBM PC compatible electronic device an APPLE MAC compatible electronic device a computing device a digital device or another electronic device or combination thereof.

The Network is a computer network. It may include a LAN Local Area Network WLAN Wireless Local Area Network WAN Wide Area Network MAN Metropolitan Area Network a global network etc. The Internet is a widely used global computer network. The Network may support a variety of a network layer protocols such as DHCP Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DVMRP Distance Vector Multicast Routing Protocol ICMP ICMPv6 Internet Control Message Protocol IGMP Internet Group Management Protocol IP Internet Protocol version 4 IPv6 Internet Protocol version 6 MARS Multicast Address Resolution Server PIM and PIM SM Protocol Independent Multicast Sparse Mode RIP2 Routing Information Protocol RIPng for IPv6 Routing Information Protocol for IPv6 RSVP Resource ReSerVation setup Protocol VRRP Virtual Router Redundancy Protocol etc. Further the Network may support a variety of a transport layer protocols such as ISTP Internet Signaling Transport Protocol Mobile IP Mobile IP Protocol RUDP Reliable UDP TALI Transport Adapter Layer Interface TCP Transmission Control Protocol UDP User Datagram Protocol Van Jacobson compressed TCP XOT X.25 over TCP etc. In addition the Network may support a variety of an application layer protocols such as COPS Common Open Policy Service FANP Flow Attribute Notification Protocol Finger User Information Protocol FTP File Transfer Protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol IMAP and IMAP4 Internet Message Access Protocol rev 4 IMPPpre Instant Messaging Presence Protocol IMPPmes Instant Messaging Protocol IPDC IP Device Control IRC Internet Relay Chat Protocol ISAKMP Internet Message Access Protocol version 4rev1 ISP NTP Network Time Protocol POP and POP3 Post Office Protocol version 3 Radius Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RLOGIN Remote Login RTSP Real time Streaming Protocol SCTP Stream Control Transmission Protocol S HTTP or HTTPS Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol SLP Service Location Protocol SMTP Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol SOCKS Socket Secure Server TACACS Terminal Access Controller Access Control System TELNET TCP IP Terminal Emulation Protocol TFTP Trivial File Transfer Protocol WCCP Web Cache Coordination Protocol X Window X Window etc. The Network supports digital interactions between the Remote Computer the Server Computer and the Recipients .

The Server Computer is one or more computing devices utilized for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to the remote user operating the Remote Computer obtaining from the Remote Computer an electronic message information and generating and transmitting individual electronic messages to the Recipients . The web based graphical user interface is typically a website or a webpage comprising an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. The web based graphical user interface is achieved by a first computer readable code on the Server Computer and by a second computer readable code on the Remote Computer . The first computer readable code may comprise for example SGML Standard Generalized Markup Language HTML HyperText Markup Language DHTML Dynamic HTML XML eXtensible Markup Language XHTML eXtensible HTML CSS Cascading Style Sheet client side programming scripts such as JavaScript and VBScript client side databases etc. The second computer readable code may comprise for example SGML HTML DHTML XML XHTML CSS server side programming languages and scripts such as Perl PHP ASP ASP.NET Java JavaScript Visual J J C C C Visual Basic VB.Net VBScript server side databases etc. Both the first computer readable code and the second computer readable code can support embedded objects such as audio and video elements ActiveX controls etc.

The Server Computer can be running a variety of operating systems such as MICROSOFT WINDOWS APPLE MAC OS X UNIX LINUX GNU BSD FreeBSD SUN SOLARIS NOVELL NETWARE OS 2 TPF eCS eComStation VMS Digital VMS OpenVMS AIX z OS HP UX OS 400 etc. The web based graphical user interface may be provided by a web server software running on the Server Computer . The web server software may include MICROSOFT IIS Internet Information Services Server APACHE HTTP SERVER APACHE TOMCAT nginx GWS GOOGLE WEB SERVER SUN JAVA SYSTEM WEB SERVER etc.

The electronic message information is obtained from the Remote Computer via the web based graphical user interface. The electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected. The list of two or more recipients is a list of two or more email addresses provided in the to and or cc fields it may also contain recipients names. The electronic message information may also contain a message subject and other fields. The electronic message information in itself is not an email message but it can be used to form electronic messages in accepted email standards.

The Server Computer can contain one or more physical servers. The physical servers can play different roles in the system of the invention e.g. a Web Server a Mail Server an Application Server a Database Server a DNS Domain Name System Server etc. The Server Computer can be based on a variety of hardware platforms such as x86 x64 INTEL ITANIUM IA64 AMD SUN SPARC IBM HP etc.

The Recipients is two or more electronic devices suitable for receiving electronic messages. The Recipients may contain for example a personal computer a desktop computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer a cell phone a smart phone a PDA a palmtop computer a handheld computer a pocket computer a touch screen device an IBM PC compatible electronic device an APPLE MAC compatible electronic device a computing device a digital device or another electronic device or combination thereof.

The Remote Computer the Server Computer and the Recipients are communicatively connected to the Network via the Communication Links and . The Communication Links and are wired or wireless connections suitable for exchange of digital information. The Communication Links and may include telephone line copper twisted pair power line fiber optic cellular satellite dial up Ethernet DSL ISDN T 1 DS 1 Wi Fi etc.

The Server Computer may be located in a physical datacenter in a virtual datacenter in a variety of countries or territories on a floating device be connected to the Internet backbone be connected to a power grid etc. The floating device may be a marine or naval vessel or ship. The Server Computer may be cooled by air or liquid such as water including ocean or sea water. The geographical placement of the Server Computer may be chosen to alleviate some legal requirements limitations and restrictions with having the Server Computer located within a jurisdiction of a particular country or territory. Thus the Server Computer may be located within a jurisdiction of a chosen country or territory or outside of a jurisdiction of any country or territory. The choice of a country or territory may be made by the entity implementing the invention.

An exemplary embodiment of interactions between the system components is shown in . The Server Computer provides a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating the Remote Computer step . The web based graphical user interface comprises at least an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. The web based graphical user interface is achieved by a computer readable code on the Server Computer and the Remote Computer .

The Server Computer obtains an electronic message information from the Remote Computer via the web based graphical user interface step . The electronic message information comprises at least a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected. The list of two or more recipients is a list of two or more email addresses provided in the to and or cc fields it may also contain recipients names. The electronic message information may also contain a message subject and other fields. The Server Computer and the Remote Computer are communicatively connected to each other via the Network .

The Server Computer generates individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields using the message body step . Then the Server Computer transmits individual electronic messages to the Recipients step .

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the Server Computer may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the electronic message information may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields may be obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface.

If the remote user chooses the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields the cc or and bcc fields on the web based graphical user interface may be disabled or hidden. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field. Alternatively if the remote user populates the bcc field the Server Computer may transmit a copy of the individual electronic messages to recipients in the bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the Server Computer . Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

A sample of the web based graphical user interface is shown in . The web based graphical user interface may be viewed by the remote user via a web browser window . The remote user may compose a message form the electronic message information using fields From To CC BCC Subject and Body . The remote user may choose a message format e.g. rich formatted text plain text greeting card etc. . Depending on the chosen message format the remote user may format the body of the message using formatting tools . The electronic message information may be delivered to the Server Computer using a button link or other action meant to transmit the electronic message information to the Server Computer such as a Send button a Send link a Send as Individual Email button selecting Send as Individual Email from a menu etc.

Further the remote user may choose the type of the message being composed sent shown as a dropdown list . The type of the message may include Email Encrypted Email Text SMS Message Email Text Message Greeting Card Individual Email etc. If the remote user chooses the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields the indicator of that will be included in the electronic message information and delivered to the Server Computer . Optionally fields CC and or BCC may be disabled or grayed out as shown in if the option was selected. Further the remote user may add one or more variable fields to the message. A variable field selector shown as a dropdown list may also be present on the web based graphical user interface. The remote user may type in variable fields into the message body and or subject line or add them using the variable field selector . In addition the remote user may specify one or more attachments to be sent with the electronic message.

An exemplary embodiment of a method of present invention is shown in . The method comprises the steps of providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating the Remote Computer step . The web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and the web based graphical user interface is achieved by a first computer readable code on the Server Computer and by a second computer readable code on the Remote Computer . Then obtaining from the Remote Computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface step . The electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected. The list of two or more recipients is a list of two or more email addresses provided in the to and or cc fields it may also contain recipients names. The Server Computer and the Remote Computer are communicatively connected via the Network . Then generating individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields using the message body step and transmitting the individual electronic messages step .

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the Server Computer may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the electronic message information may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The electronic message information may also contain a message subject and other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields may be obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the Server Computer . Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

If the remote user chooses the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields the cc or and bcc fields on the web based graphical user interface may be disabled or hidden. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field. Alternatively the method further comprises the step of transmitting a copy of the individual electronic messages to recipients in the bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The step of transmitting the individual electronic messages means that at least one electronic message has left the Server Computer . The step of transmitting does not require that an electronic message was received by one of the Recipients nor that it was viewed or read.

The Server Computer may be located in a physical datacenter in a virtual datacenter in a variety of countries or territories on a floating device be connected to the Internet backbone be connected to a power grid etc. The floating device may be a marine or naval vessel or ship. The Server Computer may be cooled by air or liquid such as water including ocean or sea water. The geographical placement of the Server Computer may be chosen to alleviate some legal requirements limitations and restrictions with having the Server Computer located within a jurisdiction of a particular country or territory. Thus the Server Computer may be located within a jurisdiction of a chosen country or territory or outside of a jurisdiction of any country or territory. The choice of a country or territory may be made by the entity implementing the invention.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the system of the present invention may include a means for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and wherein a computer readable code is applied to the means for providing to produce the web based graphical user interface b means for obtaining from the remote computer via the web based graphical user interface an electronic message information wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the means for obtaining and the remote computer are communicatively connected via a computer network c means for generating individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields using the message body and d means for transmitting the individual electronic messages .

The means of this embodiment can be substituted by machines apparatuses and devices described in this specification or equivalents thereof.

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the means for providing the web based graphical user interface may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the electronic message information may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The electronic message information may also contain a message subject and other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields is a list of two or more email addresses obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface it may also contain recipients names.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the means for providing the web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages. Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

The system may further comprise the means for disabling the cc field or and the means for disabling the bcc field on the web based graphical user interface in response to the remote user choosing the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field. Alternatively the system may further comprise the means for transmitting a copy of the individual electronic messages to recipients in the bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The means for transmitting the individual electronic messages may ensure that at least one electronic message has left the means for transmitting. The means for transmitting may be not enforcing that an electronic message was received by one of the recipients or that it was viewed or read.

The means for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages may be located in a physical datacenter in a virtual datacenter in a variety of countries or territories on a floating device be connected to the Internet backbone be connected to a power grid etc. The floating device may be a marine or naval vessel or ship. The means for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages may be cooled by air or liquid such as water including ocean or sea water. The geographical placement of the means for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages may be chosen to alleviate some legal requirements limitations and restrictions with having the means for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages located within a jurisdiction of a particular country or territory. Thus the means for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages may be located within a jurisdiction of a chosen country or territory or outside of a jurisdiction of any country or territory. The choice of a country or territory may be made by the entity implementing the invention.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of a computer readable media comprises a plurality of instructions so that when executed by at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a computer network causes the at least one server computer to a provide a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and wherein the web based graphical user interface is achieved by a first computer readable code on the at least one server computer and by a second computer readable code on the remote computer b obtain from the remote computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the at least one server computer and the remote computer are communicatively connected via the computer network c generate individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields using the message body and d transmit the individual electronic messages .

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the at least one server computer may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the electronic message information may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The electronic message information may also contain a message subject and other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields is a list of two or more email addresses obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface it may also contain recipients names.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the at least one server computer. Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

The computer readable media may further comprise instructions so that when executed causes the at least one server computer to disable the cc field or and disable the bcc field on the web based graphical user interface in response to the remote user choosing the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field. Alternatively the computer readable media may further comprise instructions so that when executed causes the at least one server computer to transmit a copy of the individual electronic messages to recipients in the bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The instructions to transmit the individual electronic messages may ensure that at least one electronic message has left the at least one server computer. The instructions to transmit may be not enforcing that an electronic message was received by one of the recipients or that it was viewed or read.

The at least one server computer may be located in a physical datacenter in a virtual datacenter in a variety of countries or territories on a floating device be connected to the Internet backbone be connected to a power grid etc. The floating device may be a marine or naval vessel or ship. The at least one server computer may be cooled by air or liquid such as water including ocean or sea water. The geographical placement of the at least one server computer may be chosen to alleviate some legal requirements limitations and restrictions with having the at least one server computer located within a jurisdiction of a particular country or territory. Thus the at least one server computer may be located within a jurisdiction of a chosen country or territory or outside of a jurisdiction of any country or territory. The choice of a country or territory may be made by the entity implementing the invention.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of an application programming interface running on at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a computer network comprising computer readable code that when executed by the at least one server computer causes the application programming interface to a receive a procedure call for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields b obtain from the remote computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the at least one server computer and the remote computer are communicatively connected via the computer network c generate individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields using the message body and d transmit the individual electronic messages .

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the at least one server computer may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the electronic message information may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The electronic message information may also contain a message subject and other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields is a list of two or more email addresses obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface it may also contain recipients names.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the at least one server computer. Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

The application programming interface may further comprise computer readable code that when executed causes the application programming interface to disable the cc field or and to disable the bcc field on the web based graphical user interface in response to the remote user choosing the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field. Alternatively the application programming interface may further comprise computer readable code that when executed causes the application programming interface to transmit a copy of the individual electronic messages to recipients in the bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The computer readable code for transmitting the individual electronic messages may ensure that at least one electronic message has left the at least one server computer. The computer readable code for transmitting may be not enforcing that an electronic message was received by one of the recipients or that it was viewed or read.

The at least one server computer may be located in a physical datacenter in a virtual datacenter in a variety of countries or territories on a floating device be connected to the Internet backbone be connected to a power grid etc. The floating device may be a marine or naval vessel or ship. The at least one server computer may be cooled by air or liquid such as water including ocean or sea water. The geographical placement of the at least one server computer may be chosen to alleviate some legal requirements limitations and restrictions with having the at least one server computer located within a jurisdiction of a particular country or territory. Thus the at least one server computer may be located within a jurisdiction of a chosen country or territory or outside of a jurisdiction of any country or territory. The choice of a country or territory may be made by the entity implementing the invention.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of an article of manufacture comprising at least one computing device communicatively coupled to a computer network having computer readable code that when executed by the at least one computing device causes the article of manufacture to a provide a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields b obtain from the remote computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the at least one computing device and the remote computer are communicatively connected via the computer network c generate individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields using the message body and d transmit the individual electronic messages .

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the at least one computing device may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the electronic message information may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The electronic message information may also contain a message subject and other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields is a list of two or more email addresses obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface it may also contain recipients names.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the at least one computing device. Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

The at least one computing device may further have computer readable code that when executed causes the article of manufacture to disable the cc field or and to disable the bcc field on the web based graphical user interface in response to the remote user choosing the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field. Alternatively at least one computing device may further have computer readable code that when executed causes the article of manufacture to transmit a copy of the individual electronic messages to recipients in the bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The computer readable code for transmitting the individual electronic messages may ensure that at least one electronic message has left the at least one computing device. The computer readable code for transmitting may be not enforcing that an electronic message was received by one of the recipients or that it was viewed or read.

The at least one computing device may be located in a physical datacenter in a virtual datacenter in a variety of countries or territories on a floating device be connected to the Internet backbone be connected to a power grid etc. The floating device may be a marine or naval vessel or ship. The at least one computing device may be cooled by air or liquid such as water including ocean or sea water. The geographical placement of the at least one computing device may be chosen to alleviate some legal requirements limitations and restrictions with having the at least one computing device located within a jurisdiction of a particular country or territory. Thus the at least one computing device may be located within a jurisdiction of a chosen country or territory or outside of a jurisdiction of any country or territory. The choice of a country or territory may be made by the entity implementing the invention.

An alternative exemplary embodiment of interactions between the system components is shown in . The Server Computer provides a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating the Remote Computer step . The web based graphical user interface comprises at least an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. The web based graphical user interface is achieved by a computer readable code on the Server Computer and the Remote Computer .

The Server Computer obtains an electronic message information from the Remote Computer via the web based graphical user interface step . The electronic message information comprises at least a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected. The Server Computer and the Remote Computer are communicatively connected to each other via the Network .

The Server Computer determines a spam index from the electronic message information obtained from the Remote Computer step . Then the Server Computer declines transmission of electronic messages to the Recipients if the spam index is outside a predetermined interval step . The Server Computer may notify the remote user operating the Remote Computer that transmission of the messages was declined and the reason for the decline.

The spam index indicates the probability of an electronic message being spam. It may be measured in a variety of ranges e.g. from 0 to 1 from 1 to 1 from 0 to 100 from 100 to 100 from 0 to etc. The commonly used range is from 0 to 1 where 1 indicates the highest probability that the message is a spam and 0 indicates the lowest probability that the message is a spam. Ham is a term commonly used to describe non spam messages. The spam index can be determined for example by statistical techniques of analyzing the terms in electronic message body subject and or headers. For example the Bayesian algorithms are commonly used.

The probability that the entire message is spam or spam index can be calculated by combining probabilities of individual terms words keywords being spam for example as 

If the spam index is outside of a predetermined interval the transmission of the messages may be declined. For example if the spam index is measured from 0 to 1 and the spam index of a message is more that 0.8 the transmission of the message may be declined. Of course other values may be used 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.72 0.9 0.95 etc. In a preferred embodiment the transmission of the message is declined when the spam index of the message is equal to or more than 0.9.

An alternative exemplary embodiment of a method of present invention is shown in . The method comprises the steps of providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating the Remote Computer step . The web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and the web based graphical user interface is achieved by a first computer readable code on the Server Computer and by a second computer readable code on the Remote Computer . Then obtaining from the Remote Computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface step . The electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected. The Server Computer and the Remote Computer are communicatively connected via the Network . Then determining a spam index from the electronic message information obtained from the Remote Computer step and declining transmission of electronic messages if the spam index is outside a predetermined interval step . The Server Computer may notify the remote user operating the Remote Computer that transmission of the messages was declined and the reason for the decline.

Referring to an alternative exemplary embodiment of the system of the present invention may include a means for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and wherein a computer readable code is applied to the means for providing to produce the web based graphical user interface b means for obtaining from the remote computer via the web based graphical user interface an electronic message information wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the means for obtaining and the remote computer are communicatively connected via a computer network c means for determining a spam index from the electronic message information obtained from the remote computer and d means for declining transmission of electronic messages if the spam index is outside a predetermined interval . Means for declining may notify the remote user operating the remote computer that transmission of the messages was declined and the reason for the decline.

The means of this embodiment can be substituted by machines apparatuses and devices described in this specification or equivalents thereof.

Referring to an alternative exemplary embodiment of a computer readable media comprises a plurality of instructions so that when executed by at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a computer network causes the at least one server computer to a provide a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and wherein the web based graphical user interface is achieved by a first computer readable code on the at least one server computer and by a second computer readable code on the remote computer b obtain from the remote computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the at least one server computer and the remote computer are communicatively connected via the computer network c determine a spam index from the electronic message information obtained from the remote computer and d decline transmission of electronic messages if the spam index is outside a predetermined interval . The computer readable media may further contain instructions that notify the remote user operating the remote computer that transmission of the messages was declined and the reason for the decline.

Referring to an alternative exemplary embodiment of an application programming interface running on at least one server computer communicatively coupled to a computer network comprising computer readable code that when executed by the at least one server computer causes the application programming interface to a receive a procedure call for providing a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields b obtain from the remote computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the at least one server computer and the remote computer are communicatively connected via the computer network c determine a spam index from the electronic message information obtained from the remote computer and d decline transmission of electronic messages if the spam index is outside a predetermined interval . The application programming interface may further comprise computer readable code that notifies the remote user operating the remote computer that transmission of the messages was declined and the reason for the decline.

Referring to an alternative exemplary embodiment of an article of manufacture comprising at least one computing device communicatively coupled to a computer network having computer readable code that when executed by the at least one computing device causes the article of manufacture to a provide a web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages to a remote user operating a remote computer wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields b obtain from the remote computer an electronic message information via the web based graphical user interface wherein the electronic message information comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the at least one computing device and the remote computer are communicatively connected via the computer network c determine a spam index from the electronic message information obtained from the remote computer and d decline transmission of electronic messages if the spam index is outside a predetermined interval . The at least one computing device may further have computer readable code that notifies the remote user operating the remote computer that transmission of the messages was declined and the reason for the decline.

An exemplary embodiment of a method of present invention executed by a user is shown in . The method comprises the steps of a user a remote user an end user operating a Remote Computer accessing a web based graphical user interface designed for sending electronic messages. The web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and the web based graphical user interface is achieved produced generated by a first computer readable code on a Server Computer and by a second computer readable code on the Remote Computer step . Then providing to the Server Computer a set of data via the web based graphical user interface where the set of data at least comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected step . The list of two or more recipients is a list of two or more email addresses provided in the to and or cc fields it may also contain recipients names. The Server Computer and the Remote Computer are communicatively connected via the Network .

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the Server Computer may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the set of data may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The set of data may also contain a message subject and other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields may be obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the Server Computer . Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

If the user chooses the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields the cc or and bcc fields on the web based graphical user interface may be disabled or hidden. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field.

Referring to an exemplary embodiment of the user s system of the present invention may include a means for accessing a web based graphical user interface designed for sending electronic messages wherein the web based graphical user interface comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields and wherein a computer readable code is applied to the means for accessing to produce generate render achieve the web based graphical user interface and b means for providing a set of data to a server computer via the web based graphical user interface wherein the set of data at least comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected and wherein the means for providing and the server computer are communicatively connected via a computer network .

The means of this embodiment can be substituted by machines apparatuses and devices described in this specification or equivalents thereof.

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may include a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the means for providing the web based graphical user interface may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message body obtained as part of the electronic message information may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The set of data may also contain a message subject and other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields is a list of two or more email addresses obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface it may also contain recipients names.

The message body and the message subject may contain variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the means for providing the web based graphical user interface for sending electronic messages. Tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

The system may further comprise the means for disabling the cc field or and the means for disabling the bcc field on the web based graphical user interface in response to the user choosing the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field.

An exemplary embodiment of a method for embedding variable fields in individual email messages sent via a web based graphical user interface is shown in . The method comprises the following steps. Providing a web based graphical user interface to a remote user operating the Remote Computer step . The web based graphical user interface is configured to send electronic messages and comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. The web based graphical user interface is achieved by a first computer readable code on the Server Computer and by a second computer readable code on the remote computer. The Server Computer and the Remote Computer are communicatively connected via the computer Network .

Then obtaining from the Remote Computer a set of data via the web based graphical user interface step . The set of data comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message subject and or a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected. The message subject and or the message body contain one or more markups indicating variable fields.

Then generating individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields step . The one or more markups indicating variable fields are substituted with a recipient s information.

Further the method may comprise the steps of saving a public key into a DNS record of a domain name creating a digital signature using the message subject and or the message body and a private key corresponding to the public key saved into the DNS record and appending the digital signature to the individual electronic messages. The individual electronic messages are transmitted from an email address associated with the domain name.

Also the method may comprise the step of providing a second web based graphical user interface to the remote user operating the Remote Computer . The second web based graphical user interface is configured to register a domain name to the remote user.

Alternatively the second web based graphical user interface is configured to register a domain name to the remote user with private registration. In this case the information of the remote user is replaced with the information of a proxy.

In addition the method may comprise the step of determining whether an automated script is used for sending bulk electronic messages via the web based graphical user interface.

The method may further comprise the step of transmitting a copy of the individual electronic messages with one or more markups indicating variable fields substituted with the recipient s information to recipients in a bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may be implemented on the web based graphical user interface in a variety of ways for example as a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the Server Computer may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message subject and or the message body obtained as part of the set of data may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The set of data may also contain other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields may be obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface.

The message subject and or the message body may contain one or more markups indicating variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient e.g. recipient s name recipient s date of birth etc. or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. . The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the Server Computer . Marking up or tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

Further the method may comprise the step of providing a selector field on the web based graphical user interface configured to insert one or more markups indicating variable fields into the message subject and or into the message body.

If the user chooses the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields the cc or and bcc fields on the web based graphical user interface may be disabled or hidden. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field.

An exemplary embodiment of a system for embedding variable fields in individual email messages sent via a web based graphical user interface is shown in . The system comprises the following elements. Means for providing a web based graphical user interface to a remote user operating the Remote Computer step . The web based graphical user interface is configured to send electronic messages and comprises an element for selecting an option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields. The web based graphical user interface is achieved by a first computer readable code on the Server Computer and by a second computer readable code on the remote computer. The Server Computer and the Remote Computer are communicatively connected via the computer Network .

Means for obtaining from the Remote Computer a set of data via the web based graphical user interface step . The set of data comprises a list of two or more recipients in visible fields a message subject and or a message body and an indicator that the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields was selected. The message subject and or the message body contain one or more markups indicating variable fields.

Means for generating individual electronic messages to each recipient in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields step . The one or more markups indicating variable fields are substituted with a recipient s information.

Further the system may comprise means for saving a public key into a DNS record of a domain name means for creating a digital signature using the message subject and or the message body and a private key corresponding to the public key saved into the DNS record and means for appending the digital signature to the individual electronic messages. The individual electronic messages are transmitted from an email address associated with the domain name.

Also the system may comprise means for providing a second web based graphical user interface to the remote user operating the Remote Computer . The second web based graphical user interface is configured to register a domain name to the remote user.

Alternatively the second web based graphical user interface is configured to register a domain name to the remote user with private registration. In this case the information of the remote user is replaced with the information of a proxy.

In addition the system may comprise the means for determining whether an automated script is used for sending bulk electronic messages via the web based graphical user interface.

The system may further comprise the means for transmitting a copy of the individual electronic messages with one or more markups indicating variable fields substituted with the recipient s information to recipients in a bcc field of the web based graphical user interface.

The element for selecting the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields may be implemented on the web based graphical user interface in a variety of ways for example as a checkbox a radio button a dropdown a list a selector a button etc. The element may be textual or graphical. The HTML implementation of the element may include input type checkbox input type radio select option etc. The web based graphical user interface or the Server Computer may limit the maximum number of recipients in the list of two or more recipients in visible fields. The maximum number of recipients may be 2 10 20 25 50 100 etc. In a preferred embodiment the maximum number of recipients is less or equal 100. The message subject and or the message body obtained as part of the set of data may comprise text graphics embedded objects etc. The set of data may also contain other fields. The list of two or more recipients in visible fields may be obtained from the to and or the cc fields of the web based graphical user interface.

The message subject and or the message body may contain one or more markups indicating variable merge substitute replaceable fields. E.g. Dear we write you . . . or This message was sent to Email Address . When individual messages are generated the variable fields will be replaced with the actual information of a particular recipient e.g. recipient s name recipient s date of birth etc. or with other information e.g. today s date current time etc. . The Email Address variable field may be populated with the email address provided by the user in the address fields. The name variable fields e.g. First Name Last Name First Last Name Display Name etc. may be populated with the names supplied by the user in the address fields or from user s contacts saved on the Server Computer . Marking up or tagging of the variable fields may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example different characters or combination of characters can be used.

Further the system may comprise the means for providing a selector field on the web based graphical user interface configured to insert one or more markups indicating variable fields into the message subject and or into the message body.

If the user chooses the option for sending individual electronic messages to multiple recipients in visible fields the cc or and bcc fields on the web based graphical user interface may be disabled or hidden. Optionally if the cc field and or the bcc field already contain email addresses of recipients those email addresses may be moved into the to field.

The means of this embodiment can be substituted by machines apparatuses and devices described in this specification or equivalents thereof.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 418 006 entitled Mail Server Probability Spam Filter filed on Apr. 17 2003 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 320 020 on Jan. 15 2008 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 703 245 entitled Integrated Web Based Email System and Document Storage Manager filed on Nov. 7 2003 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 977 373 entitled Tracking Domain Name Related Reputation filed on Oct. 29 2004 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 011 630 entitled Email Filtering System and Method filed on Dec. 14 2004 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 580 982 on Aug. 25 2009 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Sr. No. 11 030 612 entitled Electronic Mail System and Method filed on Jan. 6 2005 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 184 247 entitled Generating PKI Email Accounts on a Web Based Email System filed on Jul. 19 2005 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 184 259 entitled Sending Digitally Signed Emails via a Web Based Email System filed on Jul. 19 2005 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 184 519 entitled Receiving Encrypted Emails via a Web Based Email System filed on Jul. 19 2005 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 419 160 entitled Electronic Mail System Using Email Tickler filed on May 18 2006 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 419 176 entitled Electronic Mail Method Using Email Tickler filed on May 18 2006 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 873 329 entitled Mail Server Probability Spam Filter filed on Oct. 16 2007 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 523 168 on Apr. 21 2009 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 462 927 entitled Proxy Email Method and System filed on Aug. 10 2009 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 652 832 entitled Proxy Email Method and System filed on Jan. 6 2010 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 652 847 entitled Proxy Email Method and System filed on Jan. 6 2010 is hereby incorporated in its entirety by reference.

The features of the present invention might allow for substantial time saving by sending email messages to multiple recipients at once. Simultaneously it would allow users to be socially compliant but still personable when sending email messages to a list of addressees. The present invention alleviates the need for specialized websites tools and software to send personalized email messages to multiple recipients.

All embodiments of the present invention may further be limited and implemented with any and all limitations disclosed in this specification or in the documents incorporated in this patent application by reference.

Other embodiments and uses of this invention will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the invention.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and is in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present invention or any of its embodiments.

