---

title: Reporting statistics on the health of a sensor node in a sensor network
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes generating a set of statistics concerning a sensor node in a sensor network based on one or more of sensor data from a sensor at the sensor node, communication to the sensor node from one or more other sensor nodes in the sensor network, or communication from the sensor node; determining based on a subset of the set of statistics whether a predetermined anomalous event correlated with the subset has occurred; and, if the predetermined anomalous event has occurred, generating a summary of the subset and communicating it to a police node in the sensor network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08634314&OS=08634314&RS=08634314
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08634314
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100730
---
A sensor network may include distributed autonomous sensors. Uses of sensor networks include but are not limited to military applications industrial process monitoring and control machine health monitoring environment and habitat monitoring utility usage healthcare applications home automation and traffic control. A node in a sensor network is typically equipped with one or more sensors a communications interface a controller and an energy source such as a battery . Sensor nodes may vary considerably in size and their cost may be similarly variable. Size and cost constraints on sensor nodes result in corresponding constraints on resources such as energy memory computational speed and bandwidth.

In one embodiment a method includes generating a set of statistics concerning a sensor node in a sensor network based on one or more of sensor data from a sensor at the sensor node communication to the sensor node from one or more other sensor nodes in the sensor network or communication from the sensor node determining based on a subset of the set of statistics whether a predetermined anomalous event correlated with the subset has occurred and if the predetermined anomalous event has occurred generating a summary of the subset and communicating it to a police node in the sensor network.

In network links couple HMNs sensor nodes and super nodes to each other. In particular embodiments links also couple network to central repository and central health information server . In particular embodiments one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network or another link or a combination of two or more such links . A link may include one or more links . This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links . Although illustrates particular connections among sensor nodes HMNs and super nodes in network this disclosure contemplates any suitable connections among sensor nodes HMNs and super nodes . Similarly this disclosure contemplates any suitable connections among network central repository and central health information server . As an example and not by way of limitation in particular embodiments every sensor node may have or at least attempt to establish a connection to one and no more than one HMN . As another example in particular embodiments every sensor node may have or at least attempt to establish a connection to every HMN within a predetermined geographic distance of it. As another example in particular embodiments every sensor node may have or at least attempt to establish a connection to every other sensor node within a predetermined geographic distance of it. As another example network may include central repository or central health information server instead of having an external connection to them and one or more links may couple central repository or central health information server to one or more sensor nodes HMNs or one or more super nodes .

In particular embodiments senor nodes are nodes in network that include sensors. In particular embodiments a node is an electronic device that can send receive or forward information over a communication channel. A node may be active or passive and may be an endpoint or a redistribution point. A node may include one or more nodes and may be unitary or distributed. This disclosure contemplates any suitable nodes. In particular embodiments a sensor is a device that can measure or otherwise sense one or more physical quantities and convert them into or generate based on them one or more signals that a human or other observer can read. Example physical quantities include but are not limited to chemical concentration electrical fields gravity humidity light location magnetic fields motion orientation pressure shear stress sound temperature tension or compression torsion and vibration. A signal may be a digital or analog electrical signal. Example sensors include but are not limited to an audio sensor electricity meter gas meter Global Positioning System GPS locator motion detector potentiometer which may for example operate as a fuel gauge pressure sensor which may for example operate as an altimeter barometer depth sensor flow sensor or leak sensor still or video camera thermometer and water meter. A sensor may include one or more sensors and may be unitary or distributed. This disclosure contemplates any suitable sensors.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable sensor node . As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor node may be a smart meter at a residence that records information about the usage of one or more resources such as electricity gas or water at that residence and communicates that information to a utility company or other entity for billing monitoring or other purposes. Sensor node may communicate that information to the utility company or other entity through one or more other sensor nodes HMNs or super nodes in network as discussed below. A sensor node may include one or more sensors. Herein reference to a sensor node may encompass its sensors where appropriate. Similarly reference to a sensor may encompass its sensor node where appropriate. A sensor node and one or more of its sensors may be a single unitary device. In addition or as an alternative a sensor node and one or more of its sensors may be separate devices communicatively coupled to each other for example by one or more links . In particular embodiments in addition to recording and communicating sensor data from its sensors one or more sensor nodes may receive and process commands or other instructions from one or more other sensor nodes HMNs super nodes or central health information server as discussed below. Moreover in particular embodiments one or more sensor nodes may generate commands or other instructions and communicate from one or more other sensor nodes HMNs super nodes or central health information server as discussed below. In particular embodiments one or more sensor nodes may receive sensor or other data from other sensor nodes and forward that data possibly along with other information to yet other sensor nodes HMNs super nodes or central health information server as discussed below.

In particular embodiments a sensor node has one or more resources for carrying out its functions. These resources may include but are not limited to processing capabilities memory and power. A sensor node may have one or more processors and one or memory devices. This disclosure contemplates sensor nodes having any suitable number of any suitable processors and memory devices. A sensor node may have an internal power source such as for example one or more rechargeable or replaceable batteries or receive power from an external power source such as for example an electrical grid . A sensor node may include one or more solar panels to provide power to it. This disclosure contemplates sensor nodes having any suitable sources of power. Other resources of a sensor node may but need not in all cases include software such as for example application software middleware system software firmware and device drivers. This disclosure contemplates a sensor node including any suitable resources for carrying out its functions. All sensor nodes in system need not have the same resources different sensor nodes may have different resources. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more first sensor nodes may each have substantial processing capabilities large amounts of memory and almost unlimited power while one or more second sensor nodes may each have very limited processing capabilities memory and power. As another example one or more first sensor nodes may each have software running on them enabling them to perform a variety of functions including higher level ones while one or more second sensor nodes may each have less or scaled down software running on them enabling them to perform fewer functions or only lower level ones . This disclosure contemplates any suitable diversity in the resources at sensor nodes throughout system .

One or more sensor nodes in system may individually or collectively malfunction or otherwise function improperly. Similarly one or more sensor nodes in system may individually or collectively be close to or at risk of malfunctioning or otherwise functioning improperly. As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor node may experience one or more impairments in its processing capabilities memory power or other resources. As another example a battery at a sensor node may be low putting sensor node at risk of shutting down soon. As another example a sensor node may function improperly as a result of malware at sensor node which may spread to one or more other sensor nodes neighboring it. As another example an event affecting an area such as an earthquake or a fire may render one or more sensor nodes in that area partially or totally inoperative. As another example a sensor node may experience an unusually high volume of communication from other sensor nodes to forward and as a result start dropping packets. As another example a sensor node may be a rogue node that has improperly joined network with the intention of interfering with or taking improper advantage of one or more aspects of system . In particular embodiments the health of a sensor node represents its ability to function properly or to continue to function properly in system or network . In addition or as an alternative the health of a sensor node may represent its capabilities which may be based on its resources independent of the proper functioning of sensor node . In particular embodiments the health of a sensor node may encompass the health of one or more other sensor nodes neighboring it. There may be multiple aspects to the health of a sensor node . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more aspects of the health of a sensor node may be more node specific such as for example remaining power at sensor node . As another example one or more aspects of the health of a sensor node may be more network specific such as for example transmission TX errors committed or observed by sensor node the size of a TX or receive RX queue at sensor node or packet drops by sensor node . As another example one or more aspects of the health of a sensor node may concern the proper functioning of one or more sensors of sensor node . This disclosure contemplates the health of a sensor node having any suitable number of any suitable aspects.

In particular embodiments an HMN is a node in network that collects health statistics from a set of sensor nodes which may be a subset of all sensor nodes in system . In particular embodiments one or more HMNs may police and take part in optimizing metrics of network . The set of sensor nodes that an HMN may collect health statistics from may as an example and not by way of limitation include sensor nodes that are within a physical or logical neighborhood of HMN . An HMN may include one or more computer systems such as for example servers and may be unitary or distributed. An HMN may include one or more HMNs . HMNs may provide an infrastructure for collecting data related to the health of sensor nodes or network . In particular embodiments each HMN is responsible for collecting health statistics data from a set of sensor nodes in its physical or logical neighborhood. There may be a particular set of data that is more important from the health prospective of network . Some data may be more node specific such as remaining energy and other data may be more network specific such as for example TX errors queue size and packet drops . Each sensor node may maintain these parameters and log it to its nearest HMN . Some data may be more application specific. A sensor node may periodically inform its HMN about its health parameters or may update its HMN only when deemed necessary. In particular embodiments besides collecting health statistics one or more HMNs may detect or mitigate the risk of rogue nodes. They may also detect anomalies that could be introduced by external entities or malfunction of sensor nodes or other nodes.

In particular embodiments HMNs are resource rich in comparison with sensor nodes . Each HMN may be responsible for gathering health statistics for a subset of sensor nodes in its geographical proximity. Each HMN may maintain T seconds or minutes of data for each of its sensor nodes . In case data needs to be maintained for a longer duration for detailed analysis then HMNs may collaborate with their neighboring HMNs to send health monitoring information which may include health statistics or other health data on sensor nodes network HMNs or super nodes to central repository . According to particular needs HMNs may use reliable or unreliable transfer protocols for transferring health data between each other or between an HMN and a sensor node . In particular embodiments in addition to being health data collection repositories HMNs may provide conditional alarms when major or other anomalies are detected at one or more sensor nodes or in network .

In particular embodiments a sensor node with enough resources may serve as an HMN . In particular embodiments sensor nodes may use discovery mechanisms among themselves to elect a new HMN or to discover an existing HMN . In particular embodiments there are provisions for the failure of an HMN . HMNs may act as aggregators or brokers of information. As an example and not by way of limitation an HMN may aggregate health statistics from neighboring sensor nodes and act as a broker for communicating that information from neighboring sensor nodes outside network . HMNs can use aggregation and can act as brokers for passing the information from the sensors to entities outside network . In particular embodiments super nodes aggregate and analyze information from HMNs sensor nodes or both. A super node may include one or more computer systems such as for example servers and may be unitary or distributed. A super node may include one or more super nodes . Super nodes may also have their own discovery election and failover mechanisms. An HMN may peer with sensor nodes and with other HMNs that query it about health statistics. An HMN may act as an aggregator or broker of information and network with peers or other devices querying it. In addition HMNs may also analyze data from sensor nodes and learn about the environment. An HMN may also acts as a proxy that pushes constraint information out to sensor nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation in a temperature network of sensor nodes an HMN may initially listen to all data for some time and then calculate an average expected value of various data which HMN may use to develop profiles for various constraints. In particular embodiments one or more sensor nodes HMNs or super nodes may use Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs to conserve power. In particular embodiments a sensor node HMN or super node may have a low power hardware accelerated implementation of an API using for example FGPAs or systems on chips SoCs .

In particular embodiments HMNs may be standardized by one or more published Application Programming Interfaces APIs . An HMN may have one or more APIs for accessing health monitoring data which may include health statistics or other health data on sensor nodes network HMNs or super nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation an HMN may have the following APIs to query or set health information when required 

In particular embodiments network may be probed periodically for health statistics. To do this a query may be routed from a network administrator to one or more HMNs responsible for gathering health statistics from sensor nodes . Sensor nodes may report their health statistics to HMNs and HMNs may collect and analyze these health statistics. This data may be used to predict the future health or estimate an amount of time that network will continue to function at its current level. Health statistics may depend on network and its usage model. Two different networks may have different statistics and yet both be healthy. In particular embodiments an application may generate experimental traffic between selected pairs of senders receivers and use this data to estimate healthy statistics for a given network .

As discussed above one or more HMNs may process and take action based on available data. Such HMNs may operate as police nodes keeping track of statistical profiles which may include spatial and temporal correlation profiles. In particular embodiments HMNs may participate in a special overlay that may be used for distributed anomaly detection. In particular embodiments there is a private overlay of police nodes. These police nodes may use multiple statistics classifiers to determine faulty sensors or sensor nodes . In particular embodiments police nodes which may be centralized or distributed may monitor the health of network and proactively act on the health data based on policy. In particular embodiments classifiers may use pattern recognition methods tuned to this purpose. The police nodes may build multiple profiles for overall sensor network health and use network health profiles to characterize current health. In addition particular embodiments may use these profiles to set off alarms based on classification results. A police node may detect the health of individual sensors or sensor nodes . To do this the police node may compare a sensor s readings with those of its neighbors or use a spatial correlation function to determine whether the sensor s readings are likely to be false. This computation may be done by a zone leader or police node. In particular embodiments police nodes may be elected using distributed leader election algorithms and weight may be given to nodes which may in particular embodiments be sensor nodes or HMNs with higher battery life and additional hardware or software capabilities. Herein reference to an HMN may encompass a police node and vice versa where appropriate. Similarly reference to a super node may encompass a police node and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments a super node may be an HMN with police node functionality.

In particular embodiments police nodes may have two functions one for normal data collection and another for policing to collect information about nodes in network . Thus a police node may operate in two modes. One of these may be a learning mode in which the police node acts as a sensor node in network . The police node may use the information it collects in this mode to learn about its environment and possible constraints on data and sensors. The other mode may be a police mode. Once the police node has enough information about normal operating characteristics the police node may switch from learning mode to police mode and use information from the learning mode or from a super node about the characteristics of normal operating conditions and uses that information to police a set of sensor nodes in network . The switch from one mode to another may be automatic or manual supervised or unsupervised according to particular needs.

In particular embodiments a police node may sense and store data using a schema into a multi dimensional vector which may provide a multi dimensional time series. In addition the police node may clean and summarize the time series for upstream consumption using for example statistical primitives . As an example and not by way of limitation particular embodiments may use one or more wavelet transforms discrete cosine transforms or other suitable techniques to compact sensor data which may reduce data transmission and power usage in network . In particular embodiments clean up and summarization may be a form of or a part of data aggregation. As an example and not by way of limitation a police node may obtain packet loss statistics from ten downstream sensor nodes . The police node may choose to report the average to its upper zonal node instead of providing all individual numbers. The police node may also report these numbers as a time series. The police node may report these number every hour and every hour take an average of all the statistics it has received stamp the current time and report the two. Its upstream node which may be a super node may maintain the time series of these statistics by storing the timestamp and the average packet loss reported.

In particular embodiments a police node may have meta events that use raw data or summary data. As an example a police node may be pre configured with one or more definitions of one or more events. As data comes in the police node may determine whether an event has occurred based on one or more suitable classifiers or thresholds related to those definitions. A meta event may be a logical expression. In particular embodiments a meta event is an event composed of several smaller events and the satisfaction of several constraints. As an example and not by way of limitation bad weather may be a meta event triggered when humidity is greater than 90 and fog level exceeds a predetermined threshold. Each meta event may be a threshold or statistics based classifier which may use a Bayesian or other machine learning technique . One or more parallel classifiers may be used to increase power efficiency and speed. In particular embodiments a police node may have policies that dictate what action to when a classifier triggers. Example actions include but are not limited to proactive probing determining faults or sending notifications or alarms. In particular embodiments a police node may detect rogue behavior based on model based anomaly detection. A police node may know the parameters of the model from policies at the police node or learn and auto tune it based on past behavior. In particular embodiments police nodes may be organized according to a redundant topology using for example a peer to peer P2P chord like scheme use this topology to disseminate important events or other information.

Particular embodiments may implement distributed policy based policing. In some such embodiments all nodes or a subset of all nodes in network act as police nodes. There may be different classifiers at different police nodes each with its own policy. As a result different police nodes may be different policers for different dimensions of health monitoring data. This may reduce problems associated with having a single or too few potential points of failure. This may also facilitate better distribution of load.

In particular embodiments every node in network may be a police node. If one of the nodes determines that a node is malicious the nodes may use a voting scheme to determine whether that node is in fact malicious. This may provide a more distributed approach to health monitoring policing.

Particular embodiments may facilitate identifying or locating critical nodes e.g. sensor nodes or other nodes that are running low on power which may facilitate fixing those nodes. In some such embodiments nodes in one or more portions of network which may include sensor nodes HMNs or super nodes may be organized into one or more zones each with a zonal hierarchy. Zonal routing hierarchies are typically more scalable than flat routing schemes. In particular embodiments a lightweight addressing scheme identifies each sensor node . For zonal based approaches there may be a field that is formatted with a first component uint corresponding to a zone leader address and a second component ushort corresponding to a node address in the zone.

In particular embodiments each zone leader may pick a random address for itself. A zone leader may be a sensor node an HMN or a super node where appropriate. This disclosure contemplates any suitable zone leaders. Zone leaders may efficiently communicate with other zone leaders and they may handle address collisions more efficiently. In each zone the zone leader may assign a sequential or other address to each member e.g. sensor nodes HMNs or super nodes in the zone. Each zone may have a relatively small number of nodes and sizeof ushort will in most cases suffice to provide addressing to all the nodes in a zone. In particular embodiments monitoring the health of sensor nodes or network may be more scalable or efficient when a zonal or geographical approach is used for routing. In each zone the zone leader may be the police node in that zone. This may be more efficient because nodes in a given zone may already spend considerable resources trying to elect the zone leader.

Particular embodiments facilitate the generation of a network topology for one or more portions of network or the location of an affected sensor node using GPS technology. As an example and not by way of limitation a human or other carrier may carry a GPS enabled device through one or more portions of network . The GPS enabled device may look for the zone leader in the area. Given the address zone leader address in zone or any other suitable addressing scheme the GPS enabled device may locate the affected sensor node and fix or replace it according to particular needs. Particular embodiments may generate a distance based topology of one or more portions of network in this way e.g. using GPS technology to get location coordinates and store them with the addresses of sensor nodes HMNs or super nodes . Particular embodiments may use this to facilitate troubleshooting network . In particular embodiments an android or other robot may carry the GPS enabled device by itself operating in conditions that may be hostile to humans. In particular embodiments the robot need not rely on GPS technology and may instead track its x y movement with each step and recreate the entire topology of its walk by saving the number of steps taken from its walk and marking each sensor along the way. Particular embodiments may use a combination of chips to identify a sensor node or person carrying it in case of a participatory network in combination with the credibility of the source built over a period of time. In particular embodiments an operator of network may use GPS or other technology to determine the physical topology of a sensor network. A police node may store this information as a privileged node and use it to direct an external agent to trace through the topology for repairing or otherwise attending to nodes in network .

Central health information server may process health data on sensor nodes network HMNs or super nodes . Central health information server may partially or wholly provide one or more functions described herein as performed by HMNs or super nodes . In addition or as an alternative central health information server may include additional functionality beyond that described as provided by HMNs or super nodes as described elsewhere. Central health information server may include one or more computer systems such as for example servers and may be unitary or distributed for example across multiple data centers. Central health information server may include one or more central health information servers . Central repository may include one or more databases or other repositories for health or other data from or regarding sensor nodes network HMNs super nodes or central health information server . Central repository may be unitary or distributed for example across multiple data centers. Central repository may include one or more central repositories . Central repository may but need not be co located in whole or in part with central health information server .

Example constraints that may affect maintaining network performance and integrity include but are not limited to computational power at each node the nature of the task for the node e.g. monitoring temperature pressure or light the node s energy source and storage at the node available for storing or forwarding information. During monitoring particular embodiments may also consider the type of network private non participatory or public networks participatory .

In particular embodiments health monitoring data which may include health statistics or other health data on sensor nodes network HMNs or super nodes stored in HMNs for a node which may be a sensor node HMN or super node may have the following attributes 

Data collected by HMNs may enable a rich set of tools for generating control signals to control the operations of sensor nodes network HMNS or super nodes . In particular embodiments a police node may include functionality for machine learning that focuses on how system collects health data or what health data system collects. Particular embodiments may use a machine learning based approach or a suitable rule based approach to troubleshoot or let a routing or transport protocol make better decisions to improve the overall performance of network or one or more applications running on network . Particular embodiments use machine learning algorithms based on statistical modeling techniques such as for example Bayesian statistics decision trees or nearest neighbors to profile data from sensors nodes . Particular embodiments may use these instead of or in combination with other security techniques to rate the credibility of data in participatory networks. Particular embodiments may provide a framework for applying learning based event detection using a statistical toolbox which may contain a set of basic statistical functions such as for example linear regression correlation standard deviation and distance function or custom hardware implementations of the primitives. Hardware acceleration of these primitives may involve one or more co processors that individually or collectively handle fundamental operations such as for example matrix inversion eigenvalue and eigenvector in hardware. Particular embodiments may employ techniques for statistical modeling that feature extraction from raw data training of statistical model parameters for example for linear or non linear models and classifying unknown data based on learned model parameters. One or more of these steps may be implemented in parallel using low power hardware designs As an example and not by way of limitation extraction may use one or more Digital Signal Processing DSP chips for transforming raw data for example by filtering or wavelet transforms. Particular embodiments may use multiple classifiers such as for example decision trees implemented using AND OR logic trees. In addition or as an alternative particular embodiments may use programmable micro coded custom hardware with functional blocks for DSP cryptography or other suitable functions. Such hardware may operate as a network processing unit NPU for specific types of sensor data processing.

Particular embodiments may use raw data from sensors such as for example temperature readings and data about network and constraints such as for example battery power going down at one or more nodes or one or more nodes being non responsive or otherwise unreachable to determine the health or integrity of one or more portions of network . In one example use case of health data given data from all devices central health information server may process that data and determine which nodes are in a critical state in terms of resources. For example if the average battery life of network average of all battery lives is 200 days and one node has a battery life of only 10 days then that node may be in a critical state. Central health information server may communicate this information back to that node and request the critical node not to forward any data not originating at that node. This alert may allow other nearby nodes to use other forwarding nodes instead of the critical node.

In another example use case of health data if a certain node or a certain set of nodes which may make up a zone are seeing a large amount of packet drops or packet retransmissions or interference then those nodes may be marked as nodes that are least preferred for forwarding data. With these problems at those nodes data transmission may take longer and due to retransmissions may waste power. In another example use case of health data if nodes in network are experiencing high queue sizes then network may implement a Transmission Control Protocol TCP like protocol with congestion control instead of just blasting all data in network . In another example use case of health data network or an operator of network may determine an average delay per hop. As an example and not by way of limitation when a receiver receives a packet it may look at the total delay and the number of hops then divide the total delay by the number of hops to get average delay. If network is healthy these delays should be small approximately 4 10 milliseconds .

In another example use case of health data network or an operator of network may determine a network load on one or more portions of network . Given a network data rate of C an average flow rate of a total of N flows and each flow using an average hop of NumHops the total capacity used by all flows may be bounded as follows 

In another example use case of health data network or an operator of network may determine the health of a routing protocol. As an example and not by way of limitation if topological information is available then given a set of senders and receivers a shortest path perhaps optimal route may be calculated for each sender receiver pair. If the NumHops stats indicates otherwise then the routing may have an undesirable design. Another health metric may be used to examine the percentage of control packets out of total packets being sent. Control packets may include for example route discovery route replies and route repairs. For more ideal routing the control packets may be a small fraction such as for example 25 to 40 . A large value may be an indication of bad health in one or more portions of network .

In another example use case of health data network or an operator of network may monitor for rogue behavior or security based abnormal behavior in system . As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor node may behave abnormally in terms of forwarding data. There may be a node or a set of nodes that do not forward packets generated by others and these nodes may be healthy enough to do that. Looking at the topology of the network and at forwarding metrics nodes can report data forwarded a sensor gateway or controller may conclude that one of the nodes or a set of nodes have not been properly forwarding data.

Particular embodiments may provide a standardized frame work for the exchanges of sensor data. As an example and not by way of limitation nodes in network may communicate sensor data using Extensible Markup Language XML . Standardization may facilitate the interoperability among sensor nodes HMNs super nodes central repository and central health information server . Particular embodiments may involve the communication of a large amount of health data and it may be important to communicate this health data in an efficient manner. Using promiscuous listening and implicit health related data forwarding nodes in network may not need to send explicit messages for reporting their health. Health options may be defined in the header format of transport or routing protocols and nodes may report their health using these options. These options may be identified by a Type and may represent various health related information like battery power left IP queue size and packet drops for example. Other nodes which may listen to transmissions from neighboring nodes may simply snoop and if they find any health related data then they may store it in a neighbor table. This may be particular useful in zonal approaches where the zone leader may store health information about its zone nodes. The zone leader may periodically forward this health related information to central health information server for further processing.

As discussed Particular embodiments may proactively sense network for issues or problems. Particular embodiments may help sensor networks distributors to proactively monitor their sensor networks. Particular embodiments may facilitate the detection of anomalies in sensor networks. In particular embodiments policy based sensor network management may increase the efficiency of management of the sensor network. Particular embodiments may facilitate policy propagation monitoring and sensing throughout sensor networks. Particular embodiments may serve as a policy database distributed database make policy decisions and take action on those decisions. Particular embodiments may facilitate monitoring the health of a sensor network and estimating when it may become partitioned. Particular embodiments may facilitate the detection of rogue behavior in data transfer and data forwarding in a sensor network. Particular embodiments may provide more efficient approaches of communicating health data within or among sensor networks.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC e.g. a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source e.g. another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication e.g. packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN e.g. a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example an FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor e.g. one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

