---

title: Conference calls for social streams
abstract: A system and method for generating a conference call within a social network is disclosed. The participants are all members of an affinity group and they communicate with each other using different social streams. When the stream becomes too complicated, a participant transforms the social stream into a conference call so that the discussion is held in real-time. The participant that requests the conference call is designated as a moderator. The moderator controls the conference, including the members of the affinity group, through a user interface. Once the conference is established a notification can be sent to invitees and other members of the affinity group. The notification can also be published on a social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08887070&OS=08887070&RS=08887070
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08887070
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101216
---
The present invention relates to making conference calls in a social stream for example a social network. In particular the present invention relates to a conferencing module that establishes a conference call for an affinity group calls the participants and transmits notifications to the affinity group.

In social streams such as instant messaging email blogs and social networks users generate conversation threads that are organized according to time. A real time discussion through social streams can be quite difficult especially when there are more than two participants and they are using different types of social media to communicate. As a result trying to organize a simple meeting such as seeing a movie or planning a business lunch can be overly burdensome.

Some cell phones offer a feature where a user that receives a text message email or instant message from someone who is a contact in the user s address book can call the sender. This is fine if the conversation is only between two people but it fails to solve the problem of communicating with more than two people on more than a single medium.

The present invention overcomes the deficiencies and limitations of the prior art at least in part by providing a system and method for generating a conference call between people that are communicating in a social stream. The conferencing module is stored on a social network server a third party server or a user device such as a mobile phone. The conferencing module can determine whether an invitee s application supports the conferencing module and if the application does support the conference module transmit a button to the invitees to allow them to automatically join the conference call.

The conferencing module is part of an application with an affinity group such as a social network email a forum instant messaging and a blog. An affinity group is a group that shares something in common. The affinity group is defined through participant actions or common usage patterns. The common usage patterns are revealed by the conferencing interface module extracting information about relationships and interests of users from a social network and the affinity group is generated based on the relationships and interests. The affinity group can be established on the fly or from an affinity group database from which the contact information is extracted.

In one embodiment the conferencing module includes a conferencing interface module for generating a user interface for establishing details of the conference call. The user interface includes a button for initiating the conference call. Selecting the button causes the manages calls module to create a conference bridge and add the user to the conference for video conferencing if the user wants a video conference or the conference bridge calls the user if the user wants a telephone conference. In the case of storing the conferencing module on a user device in one embodiment the user device calls the other participants. Thus the participants no longer have to worry about saving conference numbers and authentication codes instead they can merely click a button and a telephone or video conference is created between the participants.

In one embodiment of the invention the person that initiates the conference is designated the moderator. The user interface allows the moderator to control who can join a conference define a time for each participant to join define an affinity group modify a length of the conference view conference statistics mute the conference record the conference evict a participant from the conference and define a budget for the conference call. Once the moderator sets the permissions the conferencing module manages the policy of what calls are active and who is allowed to join. The conferencing module also performs the bridging to connect the participants. The conferencing module calls the moderator first and once the moderator accepts the conference call the conferencing module calls the other participants.

In one embodiment of the invention a notification of the conference is published to the social network. The notification includes a varying amount of information such as a list of participants that joined the conference a time that each participant joined the conference a list of invitees that the participants want to join the conference and a duration of the conference.

A notification of the conference is published in applications with affinity groups. If the notification is used to invite a participant to the conference the conferencing module determines whether the application incorporates the conferencing software. If the application does incorporate the conferencing software the notification includes a button that when selected automatically joins the participant to the conference.

In one embodiment the present invention is a method for generating a thread in the application between at least two participants that are members of the affinity group displaying a button in the application for initiating the conference call between the at least two participants receiving a request for the conference call via the button from one of the participants retrieving contact information for the participants and calling the participants. The present invention also includes a computer program product comprising a computer useable medium including a computer readable program wherein the computer readable program when executed on a computer causes the computer to execute the method steps.

A system and method for generating a conference call in a social stream is described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention. For example the present invention is described in one embodiment below with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present invention applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

A social stream includes examples of social networks but also any application where there is a social component such as a blog email a forum etc or a predefined group such as a business meeting or a phone call.

The illustrated invention of a social network system includes user devices that are accessed by users a social network server and a third party server . In the illustrated embodiment these entities are communicatively coupled via a network . Although only two devices are illustrated persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that user devices are available to users.

The user devices in are used by way of example. While illustrates two devices the present invention applies to any system architecture having at least one and easily millions of users and user devices. Furthermore while only one network is coupled to the user devices the social network server and the third party server in practice any number of networks can be connected to the entities.

In one embodiment the conferencing module is operable on the social network server which also includes a social network software application . The social network server implements a server architecture according to one embodiment of the present invention. The social network server includes a processor not shown . The processor can be a conventional processing device such as a general purpose microprocessor. The social network server also includes a non transitory computer readable memory not shown . The memory includes program instructions or functional units that in one embodiment implement features of the present invention. Specifically the memory includes the conferencing module and the social networking software application . In one embodiment the memory also includes one or more application modules that interact with the conferencing module and the social networking software application to enable a specific computer integrated function.

In another embodiment the conferencing module is stored on a third party server . In yet another embodiment the conferencing module is stored on a user device . In another embodiment of the invention the conferencing module generates a user interface so that the participants can perform actions related to the conference call. The user interface can be accessed via a website or as part of the conferencing module . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the conferencing module can be distributed or undistributed and can be stored in any combination on the devices and servers.

The network is a conventional type wired or wireless and may have any number of configurations such as a star configuration token ring configuration or other configurations known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore the network may comprise a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet and or any other interconnected data path across which multiple devices may communicate. In yet another embodiment the network may be a peer to peer network. The network may also be coupled to or includes portions of a telecommunications network for sending data in a variety of different communication protocols. In yet another embodiment the network includes Bluetooth communication networks or a cellular communications network for sending and receiving data such as via short messaging service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS hypertext transfer protocol HTTP direct data connection WAP email etc.

In the illustrated embodiment the user device is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . The user interacts with the user device via signal line . Similarly the user device interacts with the network via signal line . The user interacts with the user device via signal line . The third party server is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . The social network server is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line .

An explicit group can also be established on the fly for example before a user establishes a conference call. In one embodiment the participant manually selects people endpoints by entering their phone numbers or selecting their names from an address book before initiating the call. In this example the affinity group exists for the duration of the conference call.

An inferred affinity group is established by for example grouping all people that commented on a blog or are connected in another social stream. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that multiple groups can be formed and that there can be overlap between members of these groups.

Applications with affinity groups include the social networking software application email applications blogs forums instant messaging applications etc. A simple version of an affinity group is a list of people in a user s contacts or address book. With regard to email the affinity group is defined by the contacts list. In a social network the affinity group can be the user s friends and can be defined even further if the social network allows for other groupings of users. In all these cases the affinity group can also be established with common usage patterns such as two people that frequently email each other.

The affinity group definitions are extracted from the applications with affinity groups and the application programming interface API transmits the information to the conferencing module . In the different sources for contact information are illustrated as an address book social network information an email and a blog or are input manually. Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other examples of social applications are possible.

In one embodiment of the invention the conferencing module comprises a managed calls module a conference call interactive voice response IVR module a telephony engine and a conferencing interface module . The conferencing interface module generates a button in a social stream for initiating a conference call with the participants. Selecting the button either automatically creates a conference call for all participants of the social stream or it prompts the participant that selected the button to specify which members of the affinity group should be part of the conference call through a user interface.

The conferencing interface module generates and displays the user interface for specifying conference details such as a state of each participant and controls for the moderator or other participant. The moderator through the user interface controls who can join e.g. by creating a whitelist of participants permitted to join the call and a blacklist of users that are blocked from joining defines affinity groups calls additional participants controls what times participants can join adds new participant endpoints modifies the length of the conference views conference statistics defines a budget for the call as required for toll calls such as possibly international calls and manages existing participants by for example muting recording and evicting participants from the conference call. In addition the moderator can modify certain defaults regarding the type of participants that are allowed to join. Because the conferencing module is used on applications that are viewed by a large number of people the risk of receiving spam or dealing with obnoxious people is higher. As a result the default includes banning or temporarily preventing a participant from joining if the participant s number of requests to join conferences exceed a certain threshold.

The user interface for a participant includes for example basic functions like increasing the volume or muting the participant s voice hold and hangup. In one embodiment the user interface includes a widget for taking a poll. One example of the poll is to vote on evicting people from the conference. The poll applies in the event that there is no designated moderator to evict participants or the poll applies in addition to the moderator. Another example is to take a poll on the usefulness of the conference.

The conferencing interface module works with the API to manage the communications between the applications with affinity groups and the managed calls module . Specifically the API allows the user to initiate the conference call within the application with a user interface generated by the conferencing interface module by transmitting the call context based on an identifier token from the application to the managed calls module . The managed calls module then associates the call with a specific stream and identifies the endpoints to connect.

The managed calls module is coupled to the conferencing interface module and receives a list of participants to call from the conferencing interface module . The managed calls module creates the conference call by calling the endpoint which is either a terminus for connecting to a participant on the call or the call itself. Thus the endpoint is either a telephone number as defined by the E.164 standard a session initiation protocol SIP address for a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP call or another mechanism for establishing video conferencing. The managed calls module ends the call when the moderator ends the phone call or if no moderator is designated by a default such as a maximum duration that is reached or when required participants leave the conference call.

During the conference call the managed calls module holds the state of the current call including who is connected the duration and cost per leg and the operations of mixing audio from each leg and playing to the other legs. During the conference call the managed calls module is managed in memory on a single server instance. Multiple managed calls are load balanced across multiple server instances. In one embodiment of the invention the managed calls module records the conference so that the participants can access it in the future.

The IVR module and the telephony engine are coupled to the managed calls module . The IVR module manages the call session which represents the call state. The telephony engine manages the voice traffic for example by controlling access to individuals and groups of participants. Access is established by defaults or according to the moderator and the telephony engine controls when individuals can dial into certain calls at certain times.

In this embodiment the affinity group definition database is coupled to the conferencing interface module and includes information for contacting members of the affinity group. Thus instead of requesting the conference information from an application with an affinity group each time a conference call is created the contact information is stored as part of the conferencing module . The contact information includes phone numbers and user IDs for contacting participants using VoIP email or instant messaging. This information is derived from contacts address books information provided to website forums etc. In one embodiment the contact number includes a number associated with Google Voice which is configured to route any call received at that phone number to any other phone associated with the Google Voice phone number.

In one embodiment the conferencing interface module is software including routines for extracting the contact information from the participants other applications and for transmitting the information to the affinity group definition database for storage. For example the conferencing interface module extracts all Microsoft Outlook contacts. The conferencing interface module generates a user interface that asks the participant for permission before performing the extracting so that privacy is maintained. In another embodiment the conferencing interface module user interface requests that the user provide a name and password for different applications such as email so that the conferencing interface module can log into the application and extract the contacts.

In this example the conferencing interface module generates a button in a social stream. The moderator selects the button from a user device to activate a conference call. The signal is transmitted to the conference call IVR module which retrieves the contact information from the affinity group definition database for the participants and initiates the conference call. The telephony engine then manages the actual voice traffic and the managed calls module holds the state of the current calls.

The speech and text engine is coupled to the managed calls module and is an optional engine that retrieves the voice information from the managed calls module and translates speech to text so that the participants can have a transcript of the conference. The speech and text engine also translates text to speech and transmits the speech to the conference so that participants can join in the conference using a social stream such as instant messaging at times when they are unable to participate in person.

About the same time that Ann emails everyone Dale begins a third thread by instant messaging Ann Bob and Chris Does anyone want Thai As a result there are three different threads using two different types of social mediums for four people trying to coordinate lunch.

In one embodiment of the invention the conferencing module calls Ann or contacts a SIP address for a VoIP call first. When she picks up the phone or acknowledges that a VoIP call has been established the conferencing module designates Ann as the moderator. In one embodiment the moderator is designated as the person that initiates the conference call. In another embodiment the moderator is designated by another means such as selecting a different participant from the affinity group as the moderator each time. In yet another embodiment the moderator can be changed during the conference for example if the initial moderator has to leave the call.

The moderator assigned conditions for the conference call such as being able to specify who is a member of the affinity group whether new people can join what times people can join etc. The moderator is also able to evict people from the conference call and ban them from joining altogether. If the call is a toll call the moderator also provides billing information in case fees are incurred. Lastly a moderator is designated because it allows the conferencing module to easily define an end to the call. When the moderator ends the call the conference call ends and all participants are disconnected.

Next the conferencing module calls the endpoints Bob Chris and Dale and the conference call is established. While the conference call is occurring other applications can be used to supplement the conversation. For example in one embodiment of the invention the conferencing module includes a speech to text engine for generating a transcript of the conference or allowing participants to communicate via instant messaging.

The information contained in the notification takes many forms. In one embodiment the notification includes an announcement that a conference call has started. More details can be included such as the people that are in the conference call Ann is now on a call with Chris and Bob. . The list of people includes a person s full name Ann Smith or less identifying information Ann S. . The notification can also contain the subject matter of the conference call In Re Lunch. Ann Chris and Bob are on a call. . In another embodiment the notification also includes a request for other members of the affinity group to join Ann Chris and Bob are on a conference call and are waiting for Dale to join. . The moderator may opt in out of publishing notifications to prevent the participants privacy from being compromised.

In one embodiment of the invention the conference call is designed for a broad audience to discuss a particular topic. The topic could be a business application such as a quarterly earnings report or something of a more social nature such as a weekly discussion about the benefits of owning cats. In one embodiment of the invention a notification is transmitted to all members of the earnings report affinity group or the I like cats affinity group. Thus one example of the notification is Join us at 1 3 pm PST on Mondays for a discussion about cats. This week s topic is Indoor vs. Outdoor Cats Why Having Outdoor Cats Is Bad for the Environment. In another embodiment of the invention the conference call is always open and people can join according to their own availability. If the topic is general such as all things relating to cats it is easier for people to join and chat at random times.

The format of the conference also varies. In one embodiment of the business application the conference call includes two segments the first is a lecture and then the second is a question and answer session. In this example the first segment only allows the person chairing the conference to speak. Because the second segment is a question and answer segment the communications are bi directional.

Referring now to various embodiments of the method of the present invention will be described. is a flow diagram illustrating high level steps for establishing a conference call. In one embodiment an application with an affinity group generates a social thread with at least two users that are members of the affinity group. The conferencing interface module generates and displays a button in the application for establishing a conference call. The conferencing interface module receives a request for a conference call. In one embodiment the conferencing interface module displays a user interface for specifying conference call details. The moderator selects participants from the user interface and provides limitations on the conference call such as duration the time during which participants can join etc.

In response to the request the conference call IVR retrieves information about the participants in the affinity group from the affinity group definitions database . The conference call IVR then calls the participants. In one embodiment of the invention the conference call IVR calls the moderator first and then calls the other participants. Once at least two people have answered the call the conference call IVR establishes the conference call.

The conferencing interface module generates an invitation to join the conference call. The invitation comes in two different forms depending upon the capabilities of the application that is used to view the invitation. Thus the conferencing interface module determines whether the participant s application supports the conference module . For example if the notification is being published within a social network the social network needs to allow the conferencing interface module to include sufficient functionality in the notification to automatically connect the user to the conference call. Similarly if the notification is being sent via email the email program needs to support a button within the email that connects the user to a VoIP call.

If the participant s application does not support the conference module the conferencing interface module generates a notification of conference details to the invited participant. The notification includes information for connecting to the conference call such as a telephone number and a passcode. If the participant s application does support the conference module the conferencing interface module generates a notification with a button for joining the conference call. Once the invited participant selects the button the conference call IVR adds the participant to the conference call.

In one embodiment of the invention the conferencing interface module publishes a notification of the call. The notification is published on a social networking site or other application with an affinity group. The notification can be very detailed and include the list of participants or the notification includes less information such as only a statement that the participant is in a conference. In one embodiment the publication is displayed on an instant messaging application as a status update.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the present invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the present invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the present invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

