---

title: Segment identification and classification using horizon structure
abstract: One or more computer-readable media including computer-executable instructions to instruct a computing system to perform geometrical calculations using seismic horizon data; and define horizon segments based on the geometrical calculations where each defined horizon segment includes points and where each point has a corresponding probability of that point belonging to a defined horizon segment. Various other apparatuses, systems, methods, etc., are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09134443&OS=09134443&RS=09134443
owner: Schlumberger Technology Corporation
number: 09134443
owner_city: Sugar Land
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101210
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application having Ser. No. 61 334 777 entitled Segment Identification and Classification using Horizon Structure filed May 14 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Seismic interpretation is a process that examines seismic data e.g. location and time or depth in an effort to identify subsurface structures such as horizons and faults. Once various structures in a geologic environment have been identified a model of the geologic environment can be constructed that accounts for these structures. Structures may be for example faulted stratigraphic formations indicative of hydrocarbon traps or flow channels. In the field of resource extraction enhancements to seismic interpretation can allow for construction of a more accurate model which in turn improves seismic volume analysis for purposes of resource extraction. As described herein various techniques pertain to seismic interpretation for identifying structures in a geologic environment.

One or more computer readable media including computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to perform geometrical calculations using seismic horizon data and define horizon segments based on the geometrical calculations where each defined horizon segment includes points and where each point has a corresponding probability of that point belonging to a defined horizon segment. Various other apparatuses systems methods etc. are also disclosed.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts that are further described below in the detailed description. This summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in limiting the scope of the claimed subject matter.

The following description includes the best mode presently contemplated for practicing the described implementations. This description is not to be taken in a limiting sense but rather is made merely for the purpose of describing the general principles of the implementations. The scope of the described implementations should be ascertained with reference to the issued claims.

Various techniques described herein pertain to seismic interpretation. As an example consider a seismic interpretation technique that includes performing geometrical calculations using seismic horizon data and defining horizon segments based on the geometrical calculations where each defined horizon segment includes points where each point has a corresponding probability of that point belonging to a defined horizon segment.

Various techniques described herein may optionally be implemented in conjunction with one or more conventional seismic interpretation techniques. For example consider a conventional seismic horizon interpretation technique to aid in a fault cut interpretation that includes identifying gaps from the seismic time or depth structures determining midpoints for the gaps and defining fault cuts at midpoints. Such a technique is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 999 885 assigned to Schlumberger Technology Corporation which is incorporated by reference herein. Seismic interpretation often occurs manually for example where an expert reviews one or more views of seismic data e.g. rendered with respect to topography and manually identifies fault boundaries or fault center lines from the seismic time structure. Such manual techniques are at times aided by rendering to a display one or more conventional geometric attributes like local dip angle or values extracted from seismic attribute fault identification volumes like variance or ant tracking.

As described herein various techniques for horizon and fault cut and or fault boundary interpretation can include building a structural map a geological model or both a map and a model where the building takes into account a fault network and one or more key seismic horizons. Once such a map a geological model or a map and a geological model is built a technique may be implemented that defines geometrical shapes of fault blocks.

In various examples a method can include receiving seismic horizon interpretation data as input for defining geometrical shapes of fault blocks. Such a method may provide for defining the geometrical shapes at the horizon level in a manner that does not necessarily require building a geological model or structural map. Additional interpretation data like fault boundaries or fault center lines or fault cuts can optionally be introduced in such a process.

In the example of the management components include a seismic data component an information component a processing component a simulation component an attribute component an analysis visualization component and a workflow component . In operation seismic data and other information provided per the components and may be input to the simulation component optionally after processing via the processing component which may be configured to implement a segment definition algorithm for processing seismic data e.g. to define fault blocks . As indicated in the example of the processing component may operate cooperatively with the attribute component . For example the processing component may determine one or more attributes may rely on one or more attributes or determine one or more attributes and rely on one or more attributes. As to determining attributes the processing component may be configured to determine a segment classification attribute and optionally a classification probability attribute.

The simulation component may process information to conform to one or more attributes for example as specified by the attribute component which may be a library of attributes. Such processing may occur prior to input to the simulation component e.g. per the processing component . Alternatively or in addition to the simulation component may perform operations on input information based on one or more attributes specified by the attribute component . As described herein the simulation component may construct one or more models of the geologic environment which may be relied on to simulate behavior of the geologic environment e.g. responsive to one or more acts whether natural or artificial . In the example of the analysis visualization component may allow for interaction with a model or model based results. Additionally or alternatively output from the simulation component may be input to one or more other workflows as indicated by a workflow component .

In the example of the analysis visualization component may be implemented for interaction with information from the processing component the attribute component or the processing component and the attribute component e.g. optionally without use of the simulation component . For example information may be provided to the component during processing by the processing component . Such information may be attribute information where the analysis visualization component allows for user interaction e.g. to assist with defining segments . Also shown in information from the components or may be directed to the workflow component . For example the processing component may indicate that seismic data is insufficient in a particular region of a geologic environment. This indication may be directed to the workflow component to cause sensing of seismic data for that region such that feedback provides sensed seismic data to the processing component .

As described herein the management components may include features of a commercially available simulation framework such as the PETREL seismic to simulation software framework Schlumberger Limited Houston Tex. . The PETREL framework provides components that allow for optimization of exploration and development operations. The PETREL framework includes seismic to simulation software components that can output information for use in increasing reservoir performance for example by improving asset team productivity. Through use of such a framework various professionals e.g. geophysicists geologists and reservoir engineers can develop collaborative workflows and integrate operations to streamline processes.

As described herein the management components may include features for geology and geological modeling to generate high resolution geological models of reservoir structure and stratigraphy e.g. classification and estimation facies modeling well correlation surface imaging structural and fault analysis well path design data analysis fracture modeling workflow editing uncertainty and optimization modeling petrophysical modeling etc. . Particular features may allow for performance of rapid 2D and 3D seismic interpretation optionally for integration with geological and engineering tools e.g. classification and estimation well path design seismic interpretation seismic attribute analysis seismic sampling seismic volume rendering geobody extraction domain conversion etc. . As to reservoir engineering for a generated model one or more features may allow for simulation workflow to perform streamline simulation reduce uncertainty and assist in future well planning e.g. uncertainty analysis and optimization workflow well path design advanced gridding and upscaling history match analysis etc. . The management components may include features for drilling workflows including well path design drilling visualization and real time model updates e.g. via real time data links .

As described herein various aspects of the management components may be add ons or plug ins that operate according to specifications of a framework environment. For example a commercially available framework environment marketed as the OCEAN framework environment Schlumberger Limited allows for seamless integration of add ons or plug ins into a PETREL framework workflow. The OCEAN framework environment leverages .NET tools Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. and offers stable user friendly interfaces for efficient development. As described herein various components may be implemented as add ons or plug ins that conform to and operate according to specifications of a framework environment e.g. according to application programming interface API specifications etc. . Various technologies described herein may be optionally implemented as components in an attribute library.

Various attributes exist to facilitate analysis of geologic environments. An attribute is typically calculated directly or indirectly from information about a geological environment. When mapped an attribute can help uncover various features such as faults fractures etc. As described herein various techniques allow for calculation of attributes such as a segment classification attribute and a classification probability attribute which may be used for defining one or more segments.

In the field of seismic analysis aspects of a geologic environment may be defined as attributes. In general seismic attributes help to condition conventional amplitude seismic data for improved structural interpretation tasks such as determining the exact location of lithological terminations and helping isolate hidden seismic stratigraphic features of a geologic environment. Attribute analysis can be quite helpful to defining a trap in exploration or delineating and characterizing a reservoir at the appraisal and development phase. An attribute generation process e.g. in the PETREL framework or other framework may rely on a library of various seismic attributes e.g. for display and use with seismic interpretation and reservoir characterization workflows . At times a need or desire may exist for generation of attributes on the fly for rapid analysis. At other times attribute generation may occur as a background process e.g. a lower priority thread in a multithreaded computing environment which can allow for one or more foreground processes e.g. to enable a user to continue using various components .

Attributes can help extract the maximum amount of value from seismic and other data for example by providing more detail on subtle lithological variations of a geologic environment e.g. an environment that includes one or more reservoirs . Particular attributes that rely at least in part on curvature are referred to as curvature attributes. Curvature attributes can be used to highlight for example stratigraphic features in sedimentary geologic environments karst features or structural discontinuities. As mentioned existing conventional approaches for detection of faults fractures etc. sometimes include analysis of attributes based on local dip angle for the surface or attributes based on local azimuth angle for the surface.

In the example of output from the visualization process block may be considered feedback as represented by a feedback block . Feedback per the feedback block may be in any of a variety of forms. For example the feedback block may be configured to output information suitable for communication to a field engineer. As mentioned such information may be a call for acquisition of additional seismic data or optionally other information about a geologic environment . As shown in the example of output from the feedback block may be communicated to one or more sensors configured to sense information about the geological environment . Such communication may occur via a network e.g. wired wireless or wired and wireless . In turn information acquired responsive to feedback may be input to the method . Accordingly the segmentation process block may act to iteratively refine one or more attributes associated with segment definition. As described herein a segmentation process may be configured to allow for interactive processing batch processing or both interactive and batch processing.

In the example of the data block may include data such as data pertaining to fault cuts fault boundaries fault centerlines seismic attributes etc. In general the data block may provide any type of data that may assist the segmentation process and defining segments of the geologic environment . While features such as a tilted fault block a graben and a horst are shown in a geologic environment may include any of a variety of features.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method .

As described herein a method can include inputting seismic data as seismic time or depth structure e.g. sometimes referred to as a seismic horizon . From a seismic horizon one or more geometrical calculations may be performed that aim to create segments of the horizon indicating for example areas of fault blocks graben horsts etc. In addition to such classification of data a probability may given be for each point at the seismic horizon indicating the probability of a point belonging to a specific segment.

As mentioned one or more additional data types can be used together with a seismic horizon to aid in a process of segmenting and classifying the horizon. For example consider fault center lines fault boundaries fault cuts horizon attributes extracted from seismic data manual segmentation and classification etc.

As described herein a segmentation process may deliver a lateral segmentation of a seismic horizon optionally without a need to build a geological model or structural map. As described herein a segmentation process may provide for segmentation of seismic time depth structure interpreted on 2D seismic data segmentation of seismic time depth structure interpreted on 3D seismic data segmentation using multiple seismic datasets 4D AVO etc. segmentation while performing seismic horizon tracking activities segmentation while editing the seismic horizon or segmentation while interpreting additional data like fault center lines fault boundaries or fault cuts.

A segmentation process may provide for improved understanding of geological structures along a seismic horizon e.g. optionally without a need to build a geological model increased quality of a seismic tracker as the segmentation can provide a means for quality control of a seismic tracker result guiding a seismic interpretation process based on for example segment classification.

As described herein a segmentation process can reduce occurrence of errors commonly associated with seismic interpretation. shows an example of an error that may occur during seismic interpretation. A graphic shows a conventional horizon interpretation based on seismic data for a geologic environment. In the graphic contour lines are shown to indicate depth. In practice colors may be displayed where for example red corresponds to shallow areas and blue corresponds to deep area. In the graphic various gaps are shown in the horizon with a particular gap labeled . A conventional technique may manually place faults in the gaps. For example a user may place a fault in the gap . Another graphic shows a fault that was placed in the gap for example using a manual identification technique for locating faults based on visual inspection of gaps. In the graphic an arrow points to an error. Specifically a portion of a horizon is on the incorrect side of the fault because when the interpreter interpreted the fault the actual fault was not exactly at the place where the gap existed in the horizon.

Such an error causes issues when creating a consistent model from the horizon and the fault. To correct this error tedious manual editing may be used to remove horizon points. For example a user may remove horizon points a distance away from the fault e.g. remove points on both sides of the fault within a gap zone of 100 m .

As described herein by appropriately defining segments such an error can be avoided as an analysis system knows that such points actually belong to the other side. By appropriately defining segments error correction is reduced e.g. the error type shown in may be avoided such that a user does not need to manually clean data . Further should any such error occur a user may simply check to ensure that any apparently wrong side of a fault points are defined as being part of segment that contributes to the other side for purposes of a horizon modeling process. In other words where a goal is to construct an accurate model the association of the points with an appropriate segment can guide the modeling process. Such a segment definition approach can help prepare for a modeling process. In a modeling process inconsistencies in location of a fault and points is a classic problem e.g. wrong side points that can be addressed by implementing segment definition prior to the modeling process e.g. points associated with a defined segment or block .

As described herein where points belong to a defined segment an algorithm may be implemented that prevents such points from spilling over a fault. While horizons are mentioned as described herein various techniques can be applied to surfaces structures etc. other than horizons.

As to the one or more parameters these may be predefined user defined or determined based at least in part by an analysis of the seismic data. In a particular example a distance parameter is used in performing geometrical calculations. In such an example the geometrical calculations can determine whether points are isolated from other points or connected to other points. A distance parameter may be a physical distance of a certain number of meters where geometrical calculations associate points as being connected based on whether each of the points lies within the physical distance of another point. In turn an isolated point is not associated with a particular group of connected points because it does not lie within the physical distance of any of the points in the particular group. However the isolated point may be part of a different group of connected points. Accordingly in such an approach isolated and connected points may be defined as a segment.

Where a distance parameter is used it may be assigned a value by a user followed by a segmentation process that relies on that value. A user may inspect out e.g. visually and then decide whether to adjust the value. A predefined value may be used which may optionally be adjustable by a user e.g. initially or after an iteration . An automatic process may analyze seismic data and determine for example an average distance between neighboring points. In such an approach the average distance may be implemented for an initial iteration for segmentation process. As described herein parameters may include one parameter for connection e.g. connectedness and another parameter for isolation. In such an approach the values may be the same or differ. Updates to one or more parameters may occur in an iterative manner e.g. automatically based on user input etc. to achieve appropriately defined segments.

As described herein one or more parameters or criteria may pertain to probability. For example a confidence level may be provided as a parameter value such that points below the confidence level in relationship to a group of points are assigned a color value and points at or above the confidence level are assigned a different color value. Accordingly a defined segment may be displayed using the two colors to show which points are higher confidence members of that segment and which points are lower confidence members of that segment. The foregoing example may rely on assigning one or more measures other than color or in addition to color. For example a measure may rely on a technique that displays intensity or lightness e.g. consider a scheme where high confidence points are shown in a bright red color and where lower confidence points are show in a dark or blackish red color . Techniques may optionally rely on z buffer halftoning screening RGB red green blue CMYK cyan magenta yellow and key HSL hue saturation luminosity etc. As described herein each point may be assigned a probability that it belongs to a particular defined segment. In some instances a point may have more than one probability. For example a point may have a probability of it belonging to one segment and another probability of it belonging to another segment. As explained below various graphical or other tools may be provided for analyzing points segments or points and segments.

As to the render block a rendering process to render a representation of the defined segments to a display a printer etc. may include assigning each of the defined horizon segments a particular color selected from a multicolor scheme. While color is mentioned other renderable features may be assigned whether static or active e.g. hatching shading blinking number etc. . As mentioned techniques may optionally rely on z buffer halftoning screening RGB red green blue CMYK cyan magenta yellow and key HSL hue saturation luminosity etc. The assignment may occur as part of a definition process for example as part of defining segments. A user with particular visual preferences e.g. due to color blindness or other may optionally select a color scheme or other scheme for rendering. As mentioned seismic interpretation has been conventionally performed by visual analysis with manual interaction. As described herein various techniques aim to enhance seismic interpretation. Such techniques may provide options that allow for tailoring display of information to promote an acceptable if not a superior user experience for those that perform seismic interpretation. Accordingly various techniques may provide for display scheme flexibility.

The method is shown in in association with various computer readable media blocks and . Such blocks generally include instructions suitable for execution by one or more processors or cores to instruct a computing device to perform one or more actions. While various blocks are shown a single medium may be configured with instructions to allow for at least in part performance of various actions of the method .

As described herein one or more computer readable media can include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to perform geometrical calculations using seismic horizon data and define horizon segments based on the geometrical calculations where each defined horizon segment includes points and where each point has a corresponding probability of that point belonging to a defined horizon segment.

As described herein one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to map defined horizon segments and optionally map at least some of probabilities. One or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to alter a probability for a point based on user input alter a boundary of a defined horizon segment based on user input etc.

As described herein one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to access seismic horizon data where the data includes seismic time data or depth data . One or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to perform geometrical calculations based at least in part on a connection distance to perform geometrical calculations based at least in part on geometric isolation to calculate probabilities based at least in part on segment to segment connectivity to calculate probabilities based at least in part on spillage e.g. throw of a fault etc.

As described herein a method can include receiving seismic horizon data performing geometrical calculations using the seismic horizon data defining horizon segments based at least in part on the geometric calculations and rendering the defined horizon segments where the rendering includes assigning each of the defined horizon segment a particular color selected from a multicolor scheme. In such a method geometrical calculations can include determining distances between points. As described herein a method may include defining horizon segments based on connectedness of points. A method may include determining attribute values for one or more attributes e.g. a segment classification attribute a classification probability attribute or other attribute .

As described herein one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to render defined segments to a display where the defined segments represent fault blocks of a geologic environment render probability information to the display where the probability information corresponds to points associated with seismic data acquired from the geologic environment and alter a boundary of a segment based at least in part on rendered probability information. One or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to render defined segments according to a multicolor scheme to render probability information over a segment etc. After alteration of a boundary or boundaries one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to confirm one or more altered boundaries. As explained herein defined segments may assist with building of a model and particularly quality control. Accordingly one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to build a framework for modeling the geologic environment based at least in part on defined segments.

As mentioned such a framework may be built based at least in part on a segmentation process that includes performing geometrical calculations and defining segments based at least in part on such calculations. Given a framework a pillar grid can be generated automatically for example in a zone of interest. As described herein one or more segmentation attributes can be used to identify fault blocks. Such information may be used to make updates to a horizon and or fault cut interpretation. Faults identified using a segmentation process may be represented as polygons e.g. triangulated etc. and processed to include fault fault relationships as part of a model of a geologic environment. As mentioned a segmentation process that defines segments prior to model building can be used for quality control at any time during model building. While various examples described herein illustrate defined segments using hatching in black and white colors may be assigned to defined blocks to enhance fault locating and quality control checking.

As described herein one or more computer readable media may include computer executable instructions to instruct a computing system to output information for controlling a process. For example such instructions may provide for output to sensing process an injection process drilling process an extraction process etc.

As described herein components may be distributed such as in the network system . The network system includes components . . . N. For example the components may include the processor s while the component s may include memory accessible by the processor s . Further the component s may include an I O device for display and optionally interaction with a method. The network may be or include the Internet an intranet a cellular network a satellite network etc.

Although various methods devices systems etc. have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as examples of forms of implementing the claimed methods devices systems etc.

