---

title: Consolidating international short message service messages destined to multiple recipients
abstract: Two or more received SMS messages can be aggregated into a single consolidated SMS message. The consolidated SMS message can be conveyed across a boundary in accordance with SMS protocols. A fee per SMS message can be incurred for conveying SMS messages across the boundary. The fee can be minimized by use of the consolidated SMS message in lieu of having to convey multiple SMS messages. Once the consolidated SMS message have been conveyed across the boundary, the consolidated SMS message can be parsed or decomposed into its constituent SMS messages, each of which can be conveyed to an intended recipient.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08260333&OS=08260333&RS=08260333
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08260333
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100517
---
The disclosure relates to the field of telephony communications and more particularly to consolidating international short message service messages destined to multiple recipients.

Short message service SMS communications are short text messages sent between two communication devices at least one of which is often a mobile communication device. SMS text messages can be limited to one hundred and sixty characters in length. It is common however for SMS messages to be sent that are only a few characters in length such as common in acknowledgements and or greetings e.g. hi ok . Some service plans permit an unlimited number of SMS messages to be conveyed domestically while others charge an amount per message conveyed. When SMS messages are conveyed internationally significant costs and inefficiencies arise.

As such international SMS messaging is increasingly becoming a significant topic for network operators and other mobile industry stakeholders e.g. consumers . For many years the volumes of international SMS have been relatively low in comparison to domestic messaging. Now however with consumer and corporate behavior increasingly driving international communications international SMS volume is becoming gradually more important. One by product of this increasing focus on the international SMS communication market has been the introduction of a new set of inter operator costs that threaten to significantly impact the price of international SMS and thus realign the economics of the market.

Termination or interworking fees for international SMS can vary widely from operator to operator and from country to country. In one instance the impact of termination rates on the cost of international SMS is clear in markets where they have been introduced generally increasing the cost per SMS by a factor of two or three. This impact is most noticeable when SMS messages are relatively short e.g. less than a few characters in length costing operators the same amount to deliver a short message versus a long message. A solution is needed to address the costly and inefficient nature of international SMS.

One aspect of the disclosure is for a method computer program product and system for consolidating short message service SMS messages. A first SMS message can be received comprising first message content for a first recipient. A second SMS message can be received comprising second message content for a second recipient. The first message content and the second message content can be consolidated into a consolidated SMS message. The consolidated SMS message can be conveyed across a boundary in accordance with SMS protocols. In one embodiment a fee per SMS message can be incurred for conveying SMS messages across the boundary. The fee can be minimized by use of the consolidated SMS message in lieu of having to convey both the first SMS message and the second SMS message across the boundary. Once the consolidated SMS message have been conveyed across the boundary the consolidated SMS message can be parsed or decomposed into the first SMS message comprising the first message content and the second SMS message comprising the second message content. The first SMS message after it is parsed from the consolidated SMS message can be sent to the first recipient. The second SMS message after it is parsed from the consolidated SMS message can be sent to the second recipient.

Another aspect of the disclosure is for a system method and computer program product for SMS message consolidation. The system can include a queue for storing a plurality of incoming SMS messages wherein the queue stores the incoming SMS messages as digitally encoded data within a tangible storage medium. The system can also include a consolidation engine able to create consolidated SMS messages from the content of the incoming SMS messages in the queue. Each of the created consolidated SMS messages can aggregate a two or more of the incoming SMS message of the queue. The consolidated engine can send consolidated SMS messages over a network between two communication nodes as a substitute to sending a quantity of the incoming SMS messages greater than a quantity of sent consolidated SMS messages. Thus fewer messages are sent due to the consolidation. This can represent a cost savings when a per message fee is accessed for conveying SMS messages between the two communication nodes. The system can also include a decomposition engine able to decompose received consolidated SMS messages into outgoing SMS messages. For each received consolidated SMS message a plurality of outgoing SMS messages can be created by the decomposition engine.

The disclosure presents a solution for consolidating international short message service SMS messages destined to multiple recipients. In the solution one or more international SMS messages destined for multiple recipients can be combined into one consolidated SMS message and delivered to an approximate destination. In one instance international SMS messages can be analyzed to determine when messages can be consolidated. In the instance a determination can be based on SMS message length. For instance two international SMS messages can be combined into consolidated message if the combined message length does not exceed one hundred and sixty characters. The consolidated SMS message can be communicated to an approximate destination as a single traditional international SMS message. In one instance the approximate destination can be an SMS center proximate to the multiple recipients. In the instance the SMS center can decompose the consolidated SMS message and convey the combined SMS messages individually to the appropriate recipients in a traditional manner.

Thus a single consolidated SMS message is conveyed across national borders instead of multiple non consolidated messages. Since chargers are often incurred on a per message basis this disclosure can result in significant cost savings. From an end user perspective SMS messages are sent and received in the standard manner. That is the SMS centers consolidate and separate SMS messages in a substantially user transparent fashion. When queuing is used during consolidation some relatively trivial delay for queue hold time and for consolidation separation processing can result. This minimal delay can be negligible especially due to the potential savings achieved by SMS message consolidation.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured for instance via optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Provider can be separated by one or more geopolitical boundaries. For instance provider can be a national cellular carrier for England and provider can be a national cellular carrier for Germany. That is SMS messages can be messages transmitted from one nation e.g. England to another nation e.g. Germany . The boundary across which the consolidated SMS message can be one in which a per message charge is incurred. In one contemplated embodiment the boundary need not be a boundary across a national border and the SMS message need not be an international SMS message i.e. message can be a consolidated domestically sent message across a cost boundary .

The consolidated SMS message can be conveyed to an approximate destination associated with provider . Provider can decompose message to obtain contents. Contents of message e.g. messages can be delivered to recipients in a traditional manner. That is instead of two separate international SMS messages being conveyed to provider from provider only a single consolidated international SMS message is conveyed. In this way user of mobile phone can benefit from being charged for a single international SMS message rather than two international SMS messages. Further consolidated SMS message can aid in reducing network traffic on provider networks.

As used herein international SMS messages can be referred to as messages for clarity. Similarly consolidated international SMS message can be referred to as message . Messages can be destined for different recipients . For instance message can be destined for a recipient A and a recipient B associated with a mobile phone . Recipients can include mobile phone and or users associated with mobile phone .

Messages can be messages which do not exceed the maximum character limit for the message encoding scheme associated with the messages . That is the messages are short messages which do not reach the character limit of the encoding scheme. For instance the messages Global System for Mobile Communication GSM seven bit encoded messages less than twenty characters in length which can be consolidated into a single GSM seven bit encoded message not exceeding forty characters in length. In one embodiment the consolidated message can different in format from the component messages which it aggregates. For example the consolidated message can be an instant message that does not have the upper character limit of 160 characters as does a SMS message which is conveyed across a cost boundary and decomposed into SMS messages that are received by devices .

As used herein SMS can refer to a communication service component of a GSM system using standardized communications protocols that allow the exchange of text messages between mobile phone devices and or computing devices. Standardized communication protocols can include but is not limited to Signaling System 7 SS7 Internet Protocol IP and the like. In one embodiment message can be text messages conforming to the Short Message Service Point to Point SMS PP GSM recommendation 03.40. and or GSM Short Message Service Cell Broadcast SMS CB GSM recommendation 03.41. For instance message can be text messages sent by a user from a mobile phone destined to other users of mobile phones located in another country.

Message can include a message entity conforming to one or more encoding schemes associated with the Mobile Application Part portion of the SS7 protocol. In one embodiment message can be a mobile originated MO SMS transfer and message can be a mobile terminated MT SMS transfer. Encoding schemes can include but are not limited to GSM seven bit eight bit data and sixteen bit Unicode Transformation Format UTF 16 . In one instance encoding scheme can be dependent on textual content e.g. alphabet of the message . In the instance based on the alphabet associated with the message an appropriate encoding scheme can be utilized. The message length can be dependent on the encoding scheme and can include but is not limited to one hundred and sixty characters one hundred and forty characters and seventy characters.

As used herein mobile device can be a mobile computing device able to convey and or receive one or more international SMS messages . Mobile device can include but is not limited to a mobile phone portable digital assistant PDA portable music player laptop desktop computer and the like. Mobile device can be communicatively linked to provider provider via one or more networks .

Provider can be an entity permitting international SMS messages to be communicated over GSM network . In one embodiment other types of networks e.g. a wireless IP network a TDMA network a public IP network etc. can be utilized in place of one or more of network to substantially equivalent effect. Provider can include but is not limited to mobile phone operators internet providers and any other provider of a SMS service. GSM network can be communication networks permitting transmission of international SMS messages. Network can include but is not limited to Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN Public Land Mobile Network PLMN and the like. Network can communicatively link network elements including but not limited to base stations network switching subsystem and the like. One important distinction between the two networks and is that they can be independently owned where fees are contractually established for communications across or within each of the networks . These fees can be covered by state federal and or international statutes and treaties in some instances of significance to the disclosure.

Network switching subsystem NSS can be a component of which performs mobility management functions for mobile phones roaming on a network of base stations. NSS can include but is not limited to mobile switching center SMS center and the like. In one instance NSS can be a circuit switched core network able to provide packet switched data services e.g. GPRS . In another instance NSS can be a packet switched core network.

Short message service center SMSC can be a software hardware network element able to consolidate decompose and or transmit SMS messages . In one instance SMSC can be associated with an SMSC server. In the instance SMSC server can be implemented within IBM WEBSPHERE middleware or within some other J2EE application server or service oriented architecture SOA . As such the SMS consolidation processing and its reverse can be implemented as a Web service or other software service in one contemplated embodiment. The service can be an Advanced Intelligent Network AIN service can be a Web service implemented at any IP network node can be a SS7 compliant service and the like.

SMSC can identify messages which can be consolidated based on one or more criteria. Criteria can include but is not limited to message length encoding scheme and the like. For instance messages with lengths less than ten characters can be selected for consolidation. Criteria can be manually and or automatically established. In one instance criteria can be configured into one or more rulesets e.g. rules used to control consolidation.

In one embodiment message can be generated and can be communicated to an approximate destination associated with recipient information of messages . In the embodiment message can be communicated to SMSC which can be a gateway SMS. In one instance information provided by provider can aid in determining an approximate destination for message . In another instance provider can utilize international signaling point codes to establish an approximate destination for message .

SMSC can decompose consolidated messages prior to transmission to recipients . Decomposition can be performed by identifying consolidated SMS messages utilizing one or more mechanisms. In one instance decomposition can occur when an SMS message is associated with a flag indicating the message is a consolidated SMS message. In another instance decomposition can occur based on SMS message transfer type e.g. SMS DELIVER . Delivery of messages can be performed in a traditional manner. For instance based on location information gathered from base stations associated with GSM network messages can be delivered to recipient .

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited to GSM systems and can be adapted to alternative implementations where SMS is present. SMSC can be one or more traditional SMS network components modified to perform consolidation and decomposition functions. In another instance functionality encapsulated by SMSC can be performed by a software provided by a service e.g. Web service .

It should be noted that message consolidation can be performed continuously or intermittently based on provider resource availability. For instance consolidation can be performed when termination rates are unfavorable due to temporal circumstances and or resource usage scenarios. For instance during peak time usage SMS message consolidation can be utilized to reduce network overload and minimize termination costs.

In one instance queue can be a store and forward queue conforming to an SMS message queue. Queue can be associated with one or more computing devices. For example queue can be part of a distributed messaging system associated with a cellular network. In another instance queue can be a message queue residing within a mobile phone. In one embodiment queue can be associated with data store .

In one embodiment system A can be a component of a software executing on a mobile phone. In the embodiment system A can be an SMS client application permitting consolidation and decomposition of international SMS messages. For instance queue can comprise of SMS messages from a family member phones which have been consolidated on a single mobile phone e.g. primary phone on a family plan . For instance a family vacationing overseas can reduce SMS messaging cost by permitting one of the family s phones to consolidate all SMS messages destined for international recipients.

SMS engine can be a component of SMSC able to process consolidate and or decompose messages based on one or more criteria. Engine can comprise but is not limited to transaction handler consolidation engine and rules . In one instance engine can be a component of a IBM WEBSPHERE middleware application. In another instance functionality of engine can be accessible through a Web enable service.

During consolidation and or decomposition transaction handler can track messages associated with sender and recipients for billing purposes. In one instance based on SMS rates associated with an identified approximate destination handler can bill sender and or recipients accordingly. In another instance handler can record message transmissions for billing purposes based on source and or destination locations. It should be appreciated that handler can be an optional component of system .

Consolidation engine can be a hardware software component able to analyze messages and consolidate two or more messages into a consolidated message . In one embodiment engine can consolidate messages from multiple senders destined to multiple recipients into a consolidated message which can be conveyed to an approximate destination. That is messages can be consolidated regardless of the sender. Based on rules an appropriate destination for the consolidated message can be determined.

Rules can be one or more automatically and or manually determined criteria for consolidating messages . Criteria can include originating address destination address protocol type message expiration and the like. In one instance rules can be used to prioritize messages to be consolidated. In another instance rules can be used to exclude and or include messages for consolidation. Further rules can be utilized to perform access control functionality. For instance rules can be used to include and or exclude messages originating from a specific mobile device. In one instance messages can be consolidated and stored within a traditional store and forward queue. That is consolidation can be performed at a time different from the time the consolidated message is conveyed to an approximate destination.

Data store can be a hardware software component able to store international SMS messages and or consolidated message . Data store can include but is not limited to random access memory read only memory and the like. In one instance data store can temporarily store consolidated message prior to conveyance to an approximate destination. In one embodiment data store can be a non volatile storage medium e.g. flash memory associated with a mobile computing device.

Drawings are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one instance engine can generate consolidated message which can be a binary large object BLOB . In one instance transaction handler can be a network element associated with a mobile switching center billing center and the like. System can be implemented within a distributed computing system networked computing environment and the like. In one embodiment components can be distributed throughout a computing environment. In one instance engine can be a software application executing on a mobile computing device. In another instance engine can be a component of a cellular network. In one embodiment engine can be a component of an SMS gateway providing SMS message support for a messaging infrastructure.

In embodiment B message table can correspond to message queue in system A. Message table can comprise of international SMS messages . Information associated with messages can include but is not limited to message ID message contents sender information recipient information message length and the like. Message ID can include a unique identification value such as an automatically generated index. Message contents can include but is not limited to user data automatically generated data and the like. Sender and recipient information can be associated with mobile computing devices connected to one or more Global System for Mobile Communications GSM networks. In one instance sender and or recipient information can be a mobile phone telephone number. In another instance sender and or recipient information can be a uniquely identifiable value including but not limited to an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI . Message length can include a value indicating the size of message contents.

In embodiment B destination table can be a data set comprising of information associated with a recipient of an international SMS message. Table can include but is not limited to recipient ID recipient data e.g. name telephone number SMS center information and the like.

In one instance consolidation of messages can be determined using multiple criteria. In the instance message length and recipient information of messages can be utilized to determine when consolidation is possible. For instance when the combined lengths of messages do not exceed seventy characters and the destination of the recipient is associated with an identical SMS center e.g. SMSA the messages can be consolidated. and the destination table can be utilized to determine if messages can be consolidated.

In embodiment B consolidation table can correspond to a consolidated message queue. Consolidation table can be utilized to store consolidated message prior to conveyance to an approximate destination. In one instance table can comprise of consolidated ID consolidated message contents and consolidated destination. In one configuration of the instance consolidated message contents can include message contents for messages which are to be conveyed. In another configuration of the instance consolidated message contents can include message IDs for messages which are to be consolidated.

In one instance decomposition of consolidated messages can be performed utilizing table information shared between two or more providers. In another instance decomposition can be enabled through information embedded within consolidated message. That is consolidated message can be self contained.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one instance tables can be stored within a relational database management system RDBMS object RDBMS and the like.

In the embodiment message can comprise of header and user data . Header can conform to an SMS DELIVER transfer. For example header element PDU type can conform to an SMS DELIVER format. Header can include service center address SCA which can identify the address of a SMS center. In one instance SCA can be proximate to destination address . In another instance SCA can be proximate to SCA . User data can comprise of two or more messages which can include messages destined to multiple recipients from one or more senders.

In the embodiment SMS message can include header and user data . Header can conform to an SMS SUBMIT transfer. For example header element PDU type can conform to an SMS SUBMIT format. Header can include SCA which can identify a SMS center proximate to destination address . In one instance user data can include a text message composed by a sender. In another instance user data can be an automatically generated message. For instance user data can be a delivery confirmation receipt generated by a prior SMS communication.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that embodiment can be implemented within traditional SMS messaging infrastructure. In one instance embodiment can be facilitated by an application programming interface API configured to consolidate and decompose SMS messages in real time or near real time. In another instance embodiment can be API which can function in non real time.

In step a SMS consolidator can be identified. Consolidator can be identified manually and or automatically. In one instance consolidator can be automatically identified via a vote among peer computing devices. For instance mobile phones on the same family plan which are in proximity can automatically determine which phone to perform consolidation. This can be determined based on one or more criteria including bandwidth computing resources costs proximity and the like. For example a consolidator can be determined based on the mobile phone with the cheapest international SMS plan rates. In another instance a computing device can be manually configured as a dedicated consolidator for peer computing devices. For instance consolidator can be manually determined based on user and or network provider configuration settings. In step if there are SMS messages in a SMS message queue the method can proceed to step else continue to step . In step the consolidator can wait for SMS messages to exist within the queue. In step messages in queue to be consolidated can be established. In one embodiment messages to be consolidated can be established heuristically enabling intelligent message consolidation.

In step an approximate destination for the messages to be consolidated can be determined. Approximate destinations can be determined utilizing one or more manual and or automatically established mechanisms. In one instance network infrastructure information can be used to identify approximate destinations. For instance approximate destinations can be determined using signaling point codes. In step SMS messages can be consolidated into a consolidated message to be conveyed to the approximate destination. In step the consolidated message can be conveyed to the approximate destination. In one embodiment consolidated message can be conveyed to the approximate destination via an SMS hub. In step the consolidated message can be received at the approximate destination. In step the consolidated message can be decomposed and SMS messages to be delivered can be identified. In step the identified SMS messages can be delivered to the appropriate recipient. In step if more SMS messages to be delivered are available the method can return to step else the method can continue to step . In step the method can end. It should be appreciated method can be continually executed within an SMS messaging infrastructure.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

