---

title: Multiple remote controllers that each simultaneously controls a different visual presentation of a 2D/3D display
abstract: Remote control devices that can be used to independently modify multiple visual presentations that are simultaneously displayed by a screen assembly are described, wherein at least one of the visual presentations is observable by a first viewer but not a second viewer. The remote control devices can also be used to independently select media content upon which each of the multiple visual presentations is based and to control the manner in which such media content is delivered to the screen assembly. In accordance with certain embodiments, at least one of the visual presentations comprises a three-dimensional visual presentation. Display systems that include such remote control devices and methods of operating the same are also described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08854531&OS=08854531&RS=08854531
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 08854531
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 291 818 filed on Dec. 31 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 303 119 filed on Feb. 10 2010. The entirety of each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein.

This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

This application is also related to the following U.S. patent applications each of which also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 291 818 and 61 303 119 and each of which is incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 225 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Controlling a Pixel Array to Support an Adaptable Light Manipulator 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display with Adaptable Parallax Barrier 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 1982 020 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 filed on even date herewith and entitled Coordinated Driving of Adaptable Light Manipulator Backlighting and Pixel Array in Support of Adaptable 2D and 3D Displays 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 062 filed on even date herewith and entitled Set top Box Circuitry Supporting 2D and 3D Content Reductions to Accommodate Viewing Environment Constraints 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 069 filed on even date herewith and entitled Three Dimensional Display System With Adaptation Based on Viewing Reference of Viewer s and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 362 filed on even date herewith and entitled Independent Viewer Tailoring of Same Media Source Content via a Common 2D 3D Display. 

The present invention generally relates to displays systems that enable viewers to view images in three dimensions and interfaces for controlling the same.

Images may be generated for display in various forms. For instance television TV is a widely used telecommunication medium for transmitting and displaying images in monochromatic black and white or color form. Conventionally images are provided in analog form and are displayed by display devices in two dimensions. More recently images are being provided in digital form for display in two dimensions on display devices having improved resolution e.g. high definition or HD . Even more recently images capable of being displayed in three dimensions are being generated.

Conventional displays may use a variety of techniques to achieve three dimensional image viewing functionality. For example various types of glasses have been developed that may be worn by users to view three dimensional images displayed by a conventional display. Examples of such glasses include glasses that utilize color filters or polarized filters. In each case the lenses of the glasses pass two dimensional images of differing perspective to the user s left and right eyes. The images are combined in the visual center of the brain of the user to be perceived as a three dimensional image. In another example synchronized left eye right eye LCD liquid crystal display shutter glasses may be used with conventional two dimensional displays to create a three dimensional viewing illusion. In still another example LCD display glasses are being used to display three dimensional images to a user. The lenses of the LCD display glasses include corresponding displays that provide images of differing perspective to the user s eyes to be perceived by the user as three dimensional.

Problems exist with such techniques for viewing three dimensional images. For instance persons that use such displays and systems to view three dimensional images may suffer from headaches eyestrain and or nausea after long exposure. Furthermore some content such as two dimensional text may be more difficult to read and interpret when displayed three dimensionally. To address these problems some manufacturers have created display devices that may be toggled between three dimensional viewing and two dimensional viewing. A display device of this type may be switched to a three dimensional mode for viewing of three dimensional images and may be switched to a two dimensional mode for viewing of two dimensional images and or to provide a respite from the viewing of three dimensional images .

A parallax barrier is another example of a device that enables images to be displayed in three dimensions. A parallax barrier includes of a layer of material with a series of precision slits. The parallax barrier is placed proximal to a display so that a user s eyes each see a different set of pixels to create a sense of depth through parallax. A disadvantage of parallax barriers is that the viewer must be positioned in a well defined location in order to experience the three dimensional effect. If the viewer moves his her eyes away from this sweet spot image flipping and or exacerbation of the eyestrain headaches and nausea that may be associated with prolonged three dimensional image viewing may result. Conventional three dimensional displays that utilize parallax barriers are also constrained in that the displays must be entirely in a two dimensional image mode or a three dimensional image mode at any time.

Remote control devices that can be used to independently modify multiple visual presentations that are simultaneously displayed by a screen assembly are described herein wherein at least one of the visual presentations is observable by a first viewer but not a second viewer. The remote control devices can also be used to independently select media content upon which each of the multiple visual presentations is based and to control the manner in which such media content is delivered to the screen assembly. In accordance with certain embodiments at least one of the visual presentations comprises a three dimensional visual presentation. Display systems that include such remote control devices and methods of operating the same are also described. The remote control devices display systems and methods are substantially as shown in and or described herein in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Additionally the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the drawing in which the reference number first appears.

The present specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of the invention. The disclosed embodiment s merely exemplify the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s . The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Furthermore it should be understood that spatial descriptions e.g. above below up left right down top bottom vertical horizontal etc. used herein are for purposes of illustration only and that practical implementations of the structures described herein can be spatially arranged in any orientation or manner.

Remote control devices that can be used to independently modify multiple visual presentations that are simultaneously displayed by a screen assembly are described herein wherein at least one of the visual presentations is observable by a first viewer but not a second viewer. The remote control devices can also be used to independently select media content upon which each of the multiple visual presentations is based and to control the manner in which such media content is delivered to the screen assembly. In accordance with certain embodiments at least one of the visual presentations comprises a three dimensional visual presentation. Display systems that include such remote control devices and methods of operating the same are also described.

Generally speaking media system is capable of receiving multiple private media content from one or more media sources and simultaneously displaying such multiple private media content via a viewing system that includes a single display screen. Viewing system is capable of simultaneously displaying the multiple private media content in a manner that allows each of a plurality of viewers to view their own private media content without being able to observe the private media content that is simultaneously being displayed to the other viewers. Thus as shown in media system simultaneously delivers a private view to a first viewer a private view to a second viewer and so on and so forth up to a private view which is delivered to an Nth viewer all via the same single screen visual output .

As shown in media system includes media interface circuitry that receives multiple private media content and processing circuitry that controls display driver circuitry to generate the necessary drive signals to cause such multiple private media content to be simultaneously displayed by the single screen of viewing system .

As further shown in media system includes remote control communication circuitry for wirelessly receiving remote control signals from each of a plurality of remote control devices . Each remote control device may be associated with a particular viewer among the aforementioned plurality of viewers. Thus for example the first viewer may utilize remote control device the second viewer may utilize and the Nth viewer may utilize remote control device . Each viewer may utilize his her own remote control device to select his her own private media content for delivery to the display screen of viewing system and to control the manner in which such private media content is presented by the display screen and or delivered thereto. Each viewer may implement such control functions by providing input to a corresponding viewer input interface of a respective remote control device . Processing circuitry of each remote control device operates to generate suitably formatted commands based on such input and communication circuitry operates to wirelessly transmit such commands to remote control communication circuitry .

Commands so received by remote control communication circuitry are processed by processing circuitry . The processing of such commands may lead to a change in one or more private views associated with each viewer as managed by multiple private view management circuitry . The processing of such commands may also lead to a change in a configuration of viewing system and or the content delivered thereto wherein such change may be implemented via controlled delivery of drive signals from display driver circuitry .

As shown in display system includes a media system and a plurality of remote control devices connected thereto. Generally speaking media system is capable of receiving multiple private media content from one or more media sources and simultaneously displaying such multiple private media content via a viewing system that includes a single display screen. Viewing system is capable of simultaneously displaying the multiple private media content in a manner that allows each of a plurality of viewers to view their own private media content without being able to observe the private media content that is simultaneously being displayed to the other viewers. Thus as shown in media system simultaneously delivers a private view to a first viewer a private view to a second viewer and so on and so forth up to a private view which is delivered to an Nth viewer all via the same single screen visual output . To achieve this viewing system includes one or more adaptable light manipulators that operate to filter light generated by a pixel array . More details concerning a viewing system that utilizes adaptable light manipulator s to simultaneously deliver multiple different private views to multiple different viewers will be described in Section II below.

As shown in media system includes media interface circuitry that receives multiple private media content and processing circuitry that controls display driver circuitry to generate the necessary drive signals to cause such multiple private media content to be simultaneously displayed by the single screen of viewing system .

As further shown in media system includes remote control communication circuitry for wirelessly receiving remote control signals from each of a plurality of remote control devices . Each remote control device may be associated with a particular viewer among the aforementioned plurality of viewers. Thus for example the first viewer may utilize remote control device the second viewer may utilize and the Nth viewer may utilize remote control device . Each viewer may utilize his her own remote control device to select his her own private media content for delivery to the display screen of viewing system and to control the manner in which such private media content is presented by the display screen and or delivered thereto. Each viewer may implement such control functions by providing input to a corresponding viewer input interface of a respective remote control device . Processing circuitry of each remote control device operates to generate suitably formatted commands based on such input and communication circuitry operates to wirelessly transmit such commands to remote control communication circuitry .

Commands so received by remote control communication circuitry are processed by processing circuitry . The processing of such commands may lead to a change in one or more private views associated with each viewer as managed by multiple private view management circuitry . The processing of such commands may also lead to a change in a configuration of viewing system and or the content delivered thereto wherein such change may be implemented via controlled delivery of drive signals from display driver circuitry .

As shown in display system includes a media system and a plurality of remote control devices connected thereto. Generally speaking media system is capable of receiving multiple private media content from one or more media sources and simultaneously displaying such multiple private media content via a single screen . Single screen is capable of simultaneously displaying the multiple private media content in a manner that allows each of a plurality of viewers wearing associated eyewear to view their own private media content without being able to observe the private media content that is simultaneously being displayed to the other viewers.

In particular a first viewer may wear first eyewear and a second viewer may wear second eyewear . Each eyewear and may comprise shutter glasses such as LCD shutter glasses that are synchronized to cause the first viewer to see a private view that is directed to the first viewer and to cause the second viewer to simultaneously see a second private view that is directed to the second viewer. In particular during periods when a right and or left shutter lens associated with first viewer eyewear is open private media content associated with the first viewer is displayed by single screen and the right and left shutter lenses associated with second viewer eyewear are closed. Conversely when a right and or left shutter lens associated with second viewer eyewear is open private media content associated with the second viewer is displayed by single screen and the right and left shutter lenses associated with first viewer eyewear are closed. By alternating displayed media content in synchronization with such shuttering performed by first viewer eyewear and second viewer eyewear in this manner multiple private views and can be delivered. Thus as shown in media system simultaneously delivers private view to the first viewer and private view to the second viewer all via the same single screen visual output .

As shown in media system includes media interface circuitry that receives multiple private media content and processing circuitry that controls display driver circuitry to generate the necessary drive signals to cause such multiple private media content to be simultaneously displayed by the single screen .

As further shown in media system includes remote control communication circuitry for wirelessly receiving remote control signals from each of a plurality of remote control devices . Each remote control device may be associated with a particular viewer among the aforementioned plurality of viewers. Thus for example the first viewer may utilize remote control device the second viewer may utilize and the Nth viewer may utilize remote control device . Each viewer may utilize his her own remote control device to select his her own private media content for delivery to single screen and to control the manner in which such private media content is presented by single screen and or delivered thereto. Each viewer may implement such control functions by providing input to a corresponding viewer input interface of a respective remote control device . Processing circuitry of each remote control device operates to generate suitably formatted commands based on such input and communication circuitry operates to wirelessly transmit such commands to remote control communication circuitry .

Commands so received by remote control communication circuitry are processed by processing circuitry . The processing of such commands may lead to a change in one or more private views associated with each viewer as managed by multiple private view management circuitry . The processing of such commands may also lead to a change in a configuration of screen and or the content delivered thereto wherein such change may be implemented via controlled delivery of drive signals from display driver circuitry .

Multiple private view management circuitry may manage the different private views by communicating wirelessly with first viewer eyewear and or second viewer eyewear . Communication with such equipment may be facilitated by communication circuitry and respectively. Responsive to communication received from multiple private view management circuitry processing circuitry within first viewer eyewear may invoke or implement changes to the configuration of shuttering circuitry and or synchronization circuitry . Likewise responsive to communication received from multiple private view management circuitry processing circuitry within second viewer eyewear may invoke or implement changes to the configuration of shuttering circuitry and or synchronization circuitry .

Before describing example remote control devices that can be used to independently modify multiple visual presentations that are simultaneously displayed by a screen assembly to select media content upon which such visual presentations are based and to control the manner of delivery of such media content to the screen assembly various exemplary display systems that include such screen assemblies will first be described.

Pixel array comprises a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged as a grid or other distribution that operates to emit light . Pixel array may comprise a self illuminating or light generating pixel array such that the pixels of pixel array each emit light included in light . Alternatively each pixel in pixel array may operate to selectively pass light emitted by a backlighting source not shown in to produce light . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary color and intensity. In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Adaptable parallax barrier is positioned proximate to a surface of pixel array . Barrier element array is a layer of adaptable parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Combinations of barrier elements may be configured to be selectively opaque or transparent to enable various effects. For example the states of the barrier elements of barrier element array may be configured such that light emanating from pixel array is filtered to produce filtered light wherein filtered light includes one or more two dimensional and or three dimensional images that may be viewed by viewers in a viewing space .

Depending upon the implementation each barrier element may have a round square or rectangular shape and barrier element array may have any number of rows of barrier elements that extend a vertical length of barrier element array . In another embodiment each barrier element may have a band shape that extends a vertical length of barrier element array such that barrier element array includes a single horizontal row of barrier elements. Each barrier element may include one or more of such bands and different regions of barrier element array may include barrier elements that include different numbers of such bands.

It is noted that in some embodiments barrier elements may be capable of being completely transparent or opaque and in other embodiments barrier elements may not be capable of being fully transparent or opaque. For instance such barrier elements may be capable of being 95 transparent when considered to be transparent and may be capable of being 5 transparent when considered to be opaque. Transparent and opaque as used herein are intended to encompass barrier elements being substantially transparent e.g. greater than 75 transparent including completely transparent and substantially opaque e.g. less than 25 transparent including completely opaque respectively.

Driver circuitry receives control signals from control circuitry not shown in . The control signals cause driver circuitry to place screen assembly in a selected one of a plurality of different viewing configurations. In particular based on control signals adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry transmits drive signals that cause barrier element array to be placed in a state that supports the selected viewing configuration. The selected viewing configuration may be a particular two dimensional viewing configuration a particular three dimensional viewing configuration or a viewing configuration that supports the simultaneous display of different types of two dimensional and or three dimensional content.

For example shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier that supports a particular three dimensional viewing configuration. Adaptable parallax barrier is an example of adaptable parallax barrier of . As shown in adaptable parallax barrier includes a barrier element array which includes a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. Furthermore as shown in barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a plurality of parallel non blocking strips or slits . As shown in parallel non blocking strips non blocking slits are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements that are selected to be blocking. In the example of non blocking strips and blocking strips each have a width along the x dimension of two barrier elements and have lengths that extend along the entire y dimension twenty barrier elements of barrier element array although in other embodiments may have alternative dimensions. Non blocking strips and blocking strips form a parallax barrier configuration for adaptable parallax barrier . The spacing and number of parallel non blocking strips in barrier element array may be selectable by choosing any number and combination of particular strips of barrier elements in barrier element array to be non blocking to be alternated with blocking strips as desired. For example hundreds thousands or even larger numbers of non blocking strips and blocking strips may be present in adaptable parallax barrier .

Each of adaptable parallax barriers and configured in the manner shown in respectively filter light produced or passed by a pixel array to form one or more three dimensional views in a viewing space thus supporting a three dimensional viewing configuration. To achieve a two dimensional viewing configuration all of the barrier elements of either adaptable parallax barrier or can simply be placed in a non blocking state. Additional details concerning how the adaptable parallax barriers operate to support such three dimensional viewing may be found for example in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display with Adaptable Parallax Barrier the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In the adaptable parallax barrier configurations shown in the entirety of the barrier element array is filled with parallel non blocking strips to support three dimensional viewing. In further embodiments one or more regions of an adaptable parallax barrier may be filled with parallel non blocking strips to deliver three dimensional images and one or more other regions of the adaptable parallax barrier may be rendered transparent to deliver two dimensional images. Thus a viewing configuration that mixes two dimensional and three dimensional viewing regions may be supported.

For instance shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier that supports a viewing configuration that mixes two dimensional and three dimensional viewing regions according to example embodiments. Adaptable parallax barrier is similar to adaptable parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. In a first region of barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips that together fill first region . A second region of barrier element array is surrounded by first region . Second region is a rectangular shaped region of barrier element array that includes a two dimensional array of barrier elements that are non blocking. Thus in barrier element array is configured to enable a three dimensional image to be generated by pixels of a pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements of first region and to enable a two dimensional image to be generated by pixels of the pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements inside of second region . Note that alternatively first region may include all non blocking barrier elements to pass a two dimensional image and second region may include parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips to pass a three dimensional image. In further embodiments adaptable parallax barrier may have additional numbers sizes and arrangements of regions configured to pass different combinations of two dimensional images and three dimensional images.

In still further embodiments different regions of an adaptable parallax barrier that have parallel non blocking strips may have the parallel non blocking strips oriented at different angles to deliver three dimensional images to viewers that are oriented differently. Thus a viewing configuration that mixes three dimensional viewing regions having different viewing orientations may be supported.

For example shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier in which transparent slits have different orientations according to an example embodiment. Adaptable parallax barrier is similar to adaptable parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. A first region e.g. a bottom half of barrier element array includes a first plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a first plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of two barrier elements . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of three barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a first direction e.g. along a vertical axis .

Furthermore as shown in a second region e.g. a top half of barrier element array includes a second plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a second plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of one barrier element . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of two barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a second direction e.g. along a horizontal axis .

As such in first and second pluralities of parallel non blocking strips and are present in barrier element array that are oriented perpendicularly to each other. The region of barrier element array that includes first plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented vertically e.g. sitting upright or standing up . The region of barrier element array that includes second plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented horizontally e.g. laying down . In this manner users who are oriented differently relative to each other can still each be provided with a corresponding three dimensional image that accommodates their position.

Additional adaptable parallax barrier implementations and arrangements thereof that support mixed two dimensional and or three dimensional viewing regions are described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Display system may be further configured to simultaneously generate multiple two dimensional images or views for viewing by users in a viewing space. For example shows a display system configured to simultaneously deliver two different two dimensional images to two different viewers respectively in accordance with an embodiment. Display system may comprise one implementation of display system of . As shown in display system includes a pixel array and a barrier element array . Pixel array includes a plurality of pixels and . Pixels alternate with pixels such that pixels and are arranged in series in the order of pixels and . Further pixels may be included in pixel array that are not visible in including further pixels along the width dimension of pixel array e.g. in the left right directions as well as pixels along a length dimension of pixel array not visible in . Each of pixels and emits light which emanates from a display surface of pixel array e.g. generally upward in towards barrier element array . Some example indications of light emanating from pixels and are shown in as dotted lines including light and light emanating from pixel light light and light emanating from pixel etc.

Light emanating from pixel array is filtered by barrier element array to form a plurality of images in a viewing space including a first image at a first location and a second image at a second location . A portion of the light emanating from pixel array is blocked by blocking barrier elements while another portion of the light emanating from pixel array passes through non blocking barrier elements according to the filtering by barrier element array . For instance light from pixel is blocked by blocking barrier element and light and light from pixel are blocked by blocking barrier elements and respectively. In contrast light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element and light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element

System shown in is configured to form first and second images and at locations and respectively which are positioned at a distance from pixel array . As described above pixel array includes a first set of pixels and a second set of pixels . Pixels correspond to first image and pixels correspond to second image . Due to the spacing of pixels and in pixel array and the geometry of non blocking barrier elements in barrier element array first and second images and are formed at locations and respectively. As shown in light from the first set of pixels is focused at location to form first image at location . Light from the second set of pixels is focused at location to form second image at location

As shown in a first viewer receives first image at first location and a second viewer receives second image at second location according to an example embodiment. First and second images and may each comprise a different two dimensional image that may be viewed independently from each other. For instance first image and second image may be generated by display system from first media content and second media content respectively that are independent of each other. First image may be received by both eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first two dimensional image and second image may be received by both eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second two dimensional image. Thus first and second images and may be generated to have a spacing that enables them to be separately viewed by first and second users and . Furthermore first and second images and may be delivered to different viewer locations as determined by a configuration of display system including a width and spacing of non blocking slits in barrier element array and by a spacing between pixel array and barrier element array .

In accordance with the foregoing display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array barrier element array and or display screen of display system that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of images or views. In the embodiment of the single viewing plane of display system may provide a first two dimensional view based on first two dimensional media content to first viewer and may provide a second two dimensional view based on second two dimensional media content to second viewer . Barrier element array causes the first media content to be presented to first viewer via a first area of the single viewing plane but not to second viewer while simultaneously causing the second media content to be presented to second viewer via a second area of the single viewing plane but not to first viewer . Furthermore the first area and second area of the single viewing plane that provide the first and second media content overlap each other at least in part as barrier element array enables both two dimensional views to be provided from first set of pixels and second set of pixels which are interleaved with each other. In accordance with certain configurations of display system the first and second areas may be the same area and the area may encompass the entirety of the display screen or surface of display system or only a region of the display screen or surface of display system .

Still further the configuration of display system in may be used to deliver separate three dimensional content to first and second viewers and . As such display system is capable of delivering multiple three dimensional views to viewers. For example in an embodiment first and second viewers and may each wear a pair of 3D enabled glasses and the first and second media content associated with first and second images and respectively may be three dimensional media content. In one embodiment the 3D enabled glasses may be color filtering glasses. The color filter lenses of the glasses worn by first viewer may pass two dimensional images included in first image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first three dimensional image. Likewise the color filter lenses of the glasses worn by second viewer may pass two dimensional images included in second image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second three dimensional image. In another embodiment the 3D enabled glasses may be shutter lensed glasses. The shutter lenses of the glasses worn by first viewer may be synchronized to pass two dimensional images included in first image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first three dimensional image. Likewise the shutter lenses of the glasses worn by second viewer may be synchronized to pass two dimensional images included in second image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second three dimensional image.

As such display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array or barrier element array that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of three dimensional images or views. The single viewing plane of display system may provide a first three dimensional view based on first three dimensional media content to first viewer and may provide a second three dimensional view based on second three dimensional media content to second viewer . Barrier element array causes the first three dimensional media content to be presented to first viewer via a first area of the single viewing plane but not to second viewer while simultaneously causing the second three dimensional media content to be presented to second viewer via a second area of the single viewing plane but not to first viewer . Furthermore the first area and second area of the single viewing plane that provide the first and second media content overlap each other at least in part as barrier element array enables both three dimensional views to be provided from first set of pixels and second set of pixels which are interleaved with each other. In accordance with certain configurations of display system the first and second areas may be the same area and the area may encompass the entirety of the display screen or surface of display system or only a region of the display screen or surface of display system .

As such display system can be configured to deliver a single two dimensional or three dimensional view to a viewer to deliver a pair of two dimensional views to a pair of viewers or to deliver a pair of three dimensional views to a pair of viewers. Display system can be configured to switch between delivering views to one and two viewers by turning off or turning on respectively the display of media content by pixel array associated with one of the viewers e.g. by turning off or on pixels associated with second image . Display system can be configured to switch between delivering two dimensional and three dimensional views by providing the corresponding media content type at pixel array .

Display systems in accordance with further embodiments may include multiple layers of parallax barriers. Such display systems may enable multiple three dimensional images to be displayed in a viewing space. The multiple parallax barrier layers may enable spatial separation of the images. For instance in accordance with one embodiment a display device that includes multiple parallax barrier layers may be configured to display a first three dimensional image in a first region of a viewing space e.g. a left side area a second three dimensional image in a second region of the viewing space e.g. a central area a third three dimensional image in a third region of the viewing space e.g. a right side area etc. In fact a display device that includes multiple parallax barrier layers may be configured to display any number of spatially separated three dimensional images as desired for a particular application e.g. according to a number and spacing of viewers in the viewing space etc. .

Light is received at first parallax barrier from pixel array . Pixel array may comprise a self illuminating or light generating pixel array such that the pixels of pixel array each emit light included in light . Alternatively each pixel in pixel array may operate to selectively pass light emitted by a backlighting source not shown in to produce light . Pixel array driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on a control signal received from control circuitry not shown in and pixel array may emit light in accordance with the received drive signals . In an embodiment pixel array driver circuitry may generate drive signals to cause pixel array to emit light containing a plurality of images corresponding to different sets of pixels.

First parallax barrier may be configured to filter light received from pixel array . As shown in first parallax barrier includes first barrier element array that filters light to generate filtered light . First barrier element array may optionally be configurable to adjust the filtering performed by first parallax barrier in a similar manner to that described above in regard to adaptable parallax barrier or in another manner. In an embodiment parallax barrier driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on control signal received by driver circuitry to cause first barrier element array to filter light as desired.

Filtered light is received by second parallax barrier to generate filtered light that includes a plurality of three dimensional images formed in a viewing space . As shown in second parallax barrier includes second barrier element array that filters filtered light to generate filtered light . Second barrier element array may optionally be configurable to adjust the filtering performed by second parallax barrier in a similar manner to that described above in regard to adaptable parallax barrier or in another manner. In an embodiment light manipulator driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on control signal to cause barrier element array to filter filtered light to generate filtered light including three dimensional images as desired.

As such display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array first parallax barrier second parallax barrier or a display screen of display system that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of three dimensional images or views. The single viewing plane of display system may provide a first three dimensional view based on first three dimensional media content to a first viewer a second three dimensional view based on second three dimensional media content to a second viewer and optionally further three dimensional views based on further three dimensional media content to further viewers. First and second parallax barrier and cause each three dimensional media content to be presented to a corresponding viewer via a corresponding area of the single viewing plane with each viewer being enabled to view corresponding media content without viewing media content directed to other viewers. Furthermore the areas of the single viewing plane that provide the various three dimensional views of media content overlap each other at least in part. In the embodiment of the areas may be the same area an area of a display screen or surface of display system . In accordance with certain configurations of display system the areas may be the same area and the area may encompass the entirety of the display screen or surface of display system or only a region of the display screen or surface of display system .

Display system may be configured in various ways to generate multiple three dimensional images in embodiments. Furthermore as described below embodiments of display system may be configured to generate two dimensional views as well as any combination of one or more two dimensional views simultaneously with one or more three dimensional views. Examples of such embodiments are provided in the following.

As shown in the example of pixel array includes a first set of pixels a second set of pixels a third set of pixels and a fourth set of pixels . Pixels of the four sets of pixels are alternated in pixel array in the order of pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel etc. Further pixels may be included in each set of pixels in pixel array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of pixels in each set of pixels.

Each of pixels and is configured to emit light which emanates from the surface of pixel array towards first barrier element array . Each set of pixels is configured to generate a corresponding image. For example shows display system where pixels of pixel array emit light. Light from second set of pixels and first set of pixels is configured to generate third and fourth images and respectively which may be perceived together as a second three dimensional image by a second viewer . Light from fourth set of pixels and third set of pixels is configured to generate first and second images and respectively which may be perceived together as a first three dimensional image by a first viewer . The light emitted by the sets of pixels is filtered by first and second barrier element arrays and to generate the first and second three dimensional images in respective desired regions of a viewing space adjacent to display system .

For instance in the example of four images are formed in viewing space including first fourth images . Pixels correspond to fourth image pixels correspond to third image pixels correspond to second image and pixels correspond to first image . As shown in light from the first set of pixels forms fourth image and light from the third set of pixels forms second image due to the filtering of the non blocking slits in first and second barrier element arrays and . In a similar fashion light from the second set of pixels forms third image and light from the fourth set of pixels forms first image

In the embodiment of first and second images and may be configured to be perceived by viewer as a first three dimensional image such that first image is received at a right eye location of viewer and second image is received at a left eye location of viewer e.g. separated by an interocular distance . Furthermore third and fourth images and may be configured to be perceived by viewer as a second three dimensional image such that third image is received at a right eye location of viewer and fourth image is received at a second eye location of viewer

First fourth images may be formed in viewing space at a distance from pixel array and at a lateral location of viewing space as determined by a configuration of display system including a width and spacing of non blocking slits in first barrier element array by a width and positioning of non blocking slits in second barrier element array by a spacing between pixel array and first barrier element array and a spacing between first and second barrier element arrays and .

Furthermore although shown in as simultaneously delivering first and second three dimensional views to viewers and display system may deliver a two dimensional view to one of viewers and and may simultaneously deliver a three dimensional view to the other of viewers and . For example pixels and pixels may deliver the same images e.g. may display the same media content such that third and fourth images and are the same. As such because second viewer receives the same view at each of right and left eye locations and second viewer perceives third and fourth images and as a single two dimensional view. In another embodiment to provide a two dimensional view to viewer pixels may be turned off and a width of slits and may be adjusted such that pixels deliver a same view to both right and left eye locations and of viewer through slits . While second viewer is being delivered a two dimensional view first and second images and may be simultaneously delivered to first viewer as differing perspective images to be perceived as a three dimensional view or as the same image to be perceived as a second two dimensional view.

Still further if it is desired for display system to deliver a single two dimensional or three dimensional view e.g. one of viewers and is no longer participating one or both of first barrier element array and second barrier element array may be turned off. For instance to deliver a two dimensional view to a viewer first barrier element array and second barrier element array may each transition all of their corresponding barrier elements to the non blocking state be turned off and pixel array may be configured to emit a single two dimensional image. To deliver a three dimensional view to a viewer one of first barrier element array and second barrier element array may transition all of its barrier elements to the non blocking state while the other of first barrier element array and second barrier element array may be configured to deliver a three dimensional view.

Additional details concerning display systems that utilize adaptable light manipulators such as adaptable parallax barriers to support the simultaneous presentation of different two dimensional and or three dimensional views to different viewers are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

As noted above a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier of display system or a configuration of either of first and second parallax barrier and of display system can be dynamically modified to support a particular viewing configuration. To further support the viewing configuration the pixel array of each system must also be controlled to support the same viewing configuration. This concept will now be further described with continued reference to display system of although persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that the concept is equally applicable to display system of and other display systems having adaptable light manipulators such as adaptable parallax barriers.

When a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier of display system is modified to support a particular viewing configuration pixel array must also be controlled to support the same viewing configuration. In particular the rendering of pixels of an image also referred to herein as image pixels among the pixels of pixel array also referred to herein as display pixels must be handled in a manner that is consistent with a current configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . This may entail for example changing a number of display pixels that represents each image pixel i.e. changing the resolution of a displayed image and or changing which display pixels or groups thereof correspond to the respective image pixels i.e. changing the locations at which the image pixels are displayed in response to modification of a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . Such changes may be implemented by a controller not shown in via delivery of appropriate control signals to pixel array driver circuitry .

For example in one embodiment when a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier supports a first viewing configuration responsive to control signals pixel array driver circuitry sends drive signals in conformance with control signals such that the rendering of images to pixel array occurs in a manner that also supports the first viewing configuration. Furthermore when the configuration of adaptable parallax barrier is modified to support a second viewing configuration responsive to control signals pixel array driver circuitry sends drive signals in conformance with the control signals such that the rendering of images to pixel array occurs in a manner that also supports the second viewing configuration.

Numerous other methods may be used to control the rendering of image pixels to display pixels in support of a desired two dimensional and or three dimensional viewing configuration implemented by one or more adaptable parallax barriers or other adaptable light manipulator s . Additional details concerning such control of a pixel array may be found in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 225 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Controlling a Pixel Array to Support an Adaptable Light Manipulator the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. 

Light generator emits light . Adaptable parallax barrier is positioned proximate to light generator . Barrier element array is a layer of adaptable parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Barrier element array filters light received from light generator to generate filtered light . Filtered light is configured to enable a two dimensional image a three dimensional image or a pair of two dimensional or three dimensional images to be formed based on images subsequently imposed on filtered light by pixel array .

Pixel array includes a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged in a grid or other distribution like pixel array of . Pixel array is not self illuminating and operates as a light filter that imposes images e.g. in the form of color grayscale etc. on filtered light from adaptable parallax barrier to generate filtered light to include one or more images. Each pixel of pixel array may be a separately addressable filter e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary the color imposed on the corresponding light passing through and or to vary the intensity of the passed light in filtered light . In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Driver circuitry receives control signals from control circuitry not shown in . Control signals cause driver circuitry to place screen in a selected one of a plurality of different viewing configurations. In particular based on control signals adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry transmits drive signals that cause barrier element array to be placed in a state that supports the selected viewing configuration. Likewise based on control signals pixel array driver circuitry transmits drive signals to cause pixels of one or more images also referred to herein as image pixels to be rendered among the pixels of pixel array also referred to herein as display pixels in a manner that is consistent with a current configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . The selected viewing configuration may be a particular two dimensional viewing configuration a particular three dimensional viewing configuration or a viewing configuration that supports the simultaneous display of different types of two dimensional and or three dimensional content.

As discussed in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein conventional LCD displays typically include a backlight and a display panel that includes an array of LCD pixels. The backlight is designed to produce a sheet of light of uniform luminosity for illuminating the LCD pixels. When simultaneously displaying two dimensional three dimensional and multi view three dimensional regions using an adaptable parallax barrier such as that described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 the use of a conventional backlight will result in a disparity in perceived brightness between the different simultaneously displayed regions. This is because the number of visible pixels per unit area associated with a two dimensional region will generally exceed the number of visible pixels per unit area associated with a particular three dimensional or multi view three dimensional region in which the pixels must be partitioned among different eyes views .

To address this issue light generator includes a backlight array which is a two dimensional array of light sources. Such light sources may be arranged for example in a rectangular grid. Each light source in backlight array is individually addressable and controllable to select an amount of light emitted thereby. A single light source may comprise one or more light emitting elements depending upon the implementation. In one embodiment each light source in backlight array comprises a single light emitting diode LED although this example is not intended to be limiting.

The amount of light emitted by the individual light sources that make up backlight array can selectively controlled by drive signals generated by light generator driver circuitry so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions of screen can also be controlled. This enables display system to provide a desired brightness level for each display region automatically and or in response to user input. For example backlight array can be controlled such that a uniform level of brightness is achieved across different simultaneously displayed display regions even though the number of perceptible pixels per unit area varies from display region to display region. As another example backlight array can be controlled such that the level of brightness associated with a particular display region is increased or reduced without impacting or without substantially impacting the brightness of other simultaneously displayed display regions.

To help illustrate this provides an exploded view of a display system that implements a controllable backlight array as described immediately above. Display system comprises one implementation of display system . As shown in display system includes a light generator that includes a backlight array an adaptable parallax barrier that includes a barrier element array and a display panel that includes a pixel array . These elements may be aligned with and positioned proximate to each other to create an integrated screen assembly.

In accordance with the example configuration shown in a first portion of pixel array and a first portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a first display region that displays multi view three dimensional content a second portion of pixel array and a second portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a second display region that displays a three dimensional image and a third portion of of pixel array and a third portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a third display region that displays a two dimensional image. To independently control the brightness of each of the first second and third display regions the amount of light emitted by light sources included within a first portion a second portion and a third portion of backlight array can respectively be controlled. For example the light sources within first portion may be controlled to provide greater luminosity than the light sources within second portion and third portion as the number of perceivable pixels per unit area will be smallest in the first display region with which first portion is aligned. In further accordance with this example the light sources within second portion may be controlled to provide greater luminosity than the light sources within third portion since the number of perceivable pixels per unit area will be smaller in the second display region with which second portion is aligned than the third display region with which third portion is aligned. Of course if uniform luminosity is not desired across the various display regions then other control schemes may be used.

Of course the arrangement shown in provides only a single teaching example. It should be noted that a display system in accordance with an embodiment can dynamically manipulate pixel array and barrier element array in a coordinated fashion to dynamically and simultaneously create any number of display regions of different sizes and in different locations wherein each of the created display regions can display one of two dimensional three dimensional or multi view three dimensional content. To accommodate this backlight array can also be dynamically manipulated in a coordinated fashion with pixel array and barrier element array to ensure that each display region is perceived at a desired level of brightness.

In the arrangement shown in there is a one to one correspondence between each light source in backlight array and every display pixel in pixel array . However this need not be the case to achieve regional brightness control. For example in certain embodiments the number of light sources provided in backlight array is less than the number of pixels provided in pixel array . For instance in one embodiment a single light source may be provided in backlight array for every N pixels provided in pixel array wherein N is an integer greater than 1. In an embodiment in which the number of light sources in backlight array is less than the number of pixels in pixel array each light source may be arranged so that it provides backlighting for a particular group of pixels in pixel array although this is only an example. In alternate embodiments the number of light sources provided in backlight array is greater than the number of pixels provided in pixel array .

Also in the examples described above light sources in backlight array are described as being individually controllable. However in alternate embodiments light sources in backlight array may only be controllable in groups. This may facilitate a reduction in the complexity of the control infrastructure associated with backlight array . In still further embodiments light sources in backlight array may be controllable both individually and in groups.

It is also noted that although show display system configurations in which a barrier element array of an adaptable parallax barrier is disposed between a backlight array of individually addressable and controllable light sources and a pixel array in alternate implementations the pixel array may be disposed between the backlight array and the barrier element array. Such an alternate implementation is shown in . In particular is a block diagram of a display system that includes a pixel array disposed between a light generator that includes a backlight array and an adaptable parallax barrier that includes a barrier element array to support the generation of two dimensional and or three dimensional images perceivable in a viewing space . In such alternate implementations selective control of the luminosity of groups or individual ones of the light sources in backlight array may also be used to vary the backlighting luminosity associated with different display regions created by the interaction of backlight array pixel array and barrier element array .

Other example display system implementations that utilize a backlight array of independently controllable light sources are described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier. That application also describes other approaches for controlling the brightness of different simultaneously displayed display regions of a display system. Some of these approaches will be described below.

For example to achieve independent region by region brightness control in a display system that includes a conventional backlight panel designed to produce a sheet of light of uniform luminosity the amount of light passed by the individual pixels that make up a pixel array can be selectively controlled so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions can also be controlled. To help illustrate this provides an exploded view of a display system that implements a regional brightness control scheme based on pixel intensity as described immediately above. As shown in display system includes a display panel and an adaptable parallax barrier . Display system also includes a backlight panel although this element is not shown in . These elements may be aligned with and positioned proximate to each other to create an integrated display screen.

As further shown in display panel includes a pixel array . Each of the pixels in a first portion of pixel array is individually controlled by pixel array driver circuitry to pass a selected amount of light produced by a backlight panel not shown in thereby producing display generated light representative of a single two dimensional image. Each of the pixels in a second portion of pixel array is individually controlled by the pixel array driver circuitry to pass a selected amount of light produced by the backlight panel thereby producing display generated light representative of two two dimensional images that when combined by the brain of a viewer positioned in an appropriate location relative to display system will be perceived as a single three dimensional image.

Adaptable parallax barrier includes barrier element array that includes a first portion and a second portion . Barrier element array is aligned with pixel array such that first portion of blocking region array overlays first portion of pixel array and second portion of blocking region array overlays second portion of pixel array . Adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry causes all the barrier elements within first portion of barrier element array to be transparent. Thus the two dimensional image generated by the pixels of first portion of pixel array will simply be passed through to a viewer in a viewing space in front of display system . Furthermore the adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry manipulates the barrier elements within second portion of blocking region array to form a plurality of parallel transparent strips alternated with parallel opaque strips thereby creating a parallax effect that enables the two two dimensional images generated by the pixels of second portion of pixel array to be perceived as a three dimensional image by a viewer in the viewing space in front of display system .

Assume that a viewer is positioned such that he she can perceive both the two dimensional image passed by first portion of barrier element array and the three dimensional image formed through parallax by second portion of barrier element . As discussed above the pixels per unit area perceived by this viewer with respect to the two dimensional image will be greater than the pixels per unit area perceived by this viewer with respect to the three dimensional image. Thus the two dimensional image will appear brighter to the viewer than the three dimensional image when backlighting of constant luminosity is provided behind pixel array .

To address this issue drive signals may be transmitted to display panel that selectively cause the pixels included in first portion of pixel array to pass less light from the backlight panel i.e. become less intense thereby reducing the brightness of the two dimensional image produced from the pixels in first portion of pixel array . Alternatively or additionally drive signals may be transmitted to display panel that selectively cause the pixels included in second portion of pixel array to pass more light from the backlight panel i.e. become more intense thereby increasing the brightness of the three dimensional image produced from the pixels in second portion of pixel array . By controlling the intensity of the pixels in portions and of pixel array in this manner the brightness of the two dimensional image produced from the pixels in first portion of pixel array and the brightness of the three dimensional image produced from the pixels in second portion of pixel array can be kept consistent. Additionally by providing independent control over the intensity of the pixels in portions and of pixel array independent control over the brightness of the two dimensional and three dimensional images generated therefrom can also be achieved.

Of course the arrangement shown in provides only a single teaching example. It should be noted that a display system in accordance with an embodiment can dynamically manipulate pixel array and blocking element array in a coordinated fashion to dynamically and simultaneously create any number of display regions of different sizes and in different locations wherein each of the created display regions can display one of two dimensional three dimensional or multi view three dimensional content. To accommodate this the intensity of the pixels in pixel array can also be dynamically manipulated in a coordinated fashion to ensure that each display region is perceived at a desired level of brightness.

In one embodiment a regional brightness control scheme combines the use of a backlight array of independently controllable light sources as previously described with regional pixel intensity control. The advantages of such a control scheme will now be described with reference to . illustrates a front perspective view of a display panel . Display panel includes a pixel array that includes a first portion and a second portion wherein each of first portion and second portion includes a different subset of the pixels in pixel array . It is to be assumed that first portion of pixel array is illuminated by backlighting provided by an aligned first portion of a backlight array not shown in wherein the backlight array is similar to backlight array described above in reference to . Second portion of pixel array is illuminated by backlighting provided by an aligned second portion of the backlight array. In one example the amount of light emitted by each light source in the second portion of the backlight array to illuminate second portion of pixel array is controlled such that it is greater than the amount of light emitted by each light source in the first portion of the backlight array to illuminate first portion of pixel array . This control scheme may be applied for example to cause a three dimensional image formed by interaction between the pixels in second portion of pixel array and an adaptable parallax barrier to appear to have a uniform brightness level with respect to a two dimensional image formed by interaction between the pixels in first portion of pixel array and the adaptable parallax barrier.

However the difference in the amount of light emitted by each light source in the first and second portions of the backlight array to illuminate corresponding first and second portions and of pixel array may also give rise to undesired visual artifacts. In particular the difference may cause pixels in boundary areas immediately outside of second portion of pixel array to appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in first portion of pixel array . For example as shown in the pixels in boundary area immediately outside of second portion of pixel array may appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in first portion of pixel array . This may be due to the fact that the increased luminosity provided by the light sources in the second portion of the backlight array has spilled over to impact the pixels in boundary area causing those pixels to be brighter than desired. Conversely the difference may cause pixels in boundary areas immediately inside of second portion of pixel array to appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in second portion of pixel array . For example as shown in the pixels in boundary area immediately inside of second portion of pixel array may appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in second portion of pixel array . This may be due to the fact that the reduced luminosity of the light sources in the first portion of the backlight array has spilled over to impact the pixels in boundary area causing those pixels to be dimmer than desired.

To address this issue an embodiment may selectively control the amount of light passed by the pixels located in boundary region and or boundary region to compensate for the undesired visual effects. For example driver circuitry associated with pixel array may selectively cause the pixels included in boundary area of pixel array to pass less light from the backlight panel i.e. become less intense thereby reducing the brightness of the pixels in boundary area thus compensating for an undesired increase in brightness due to spill over from light sources in the second portion of the backlight array. Alternatively or additionally driver circuitry associated with pixel array may selectively cause the pixels included in boundary area of pixel array to pass more light from the backlight panel i.e. become more intense thereby increasing the brightness of the pixels in boundary area thus compensating for an undesired reduction in brightness due to spill over from light sources in the first portion of the backlight array. By controlling the intensity of the pixels in boundary areas and or in this manner the undesired visual effects described above that can arise from the use of a backlight array to provide regional brightness control can be mitigated or avoided entirely.

The illustration provided in provides only one example of undesired visual effects that can arise from the use of a backlight array to provide regional brightness control. Persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that many different display regions having many different brightness characteristics can be simultaneously generated by a display system in accordance with embodiments thereby giving rise to different undesired visual effects relating to the brightness of boundary areas inside and outside of the different display regions. In each case the intensity of pixels located in such boundaries areas can be selectively increased or reduced to mitigate or avoid such undesired visual effects.

In additional embodiments a regional brightness control scheme is implemented in a display system that does not include a backlight panel at all but instead utilizes a display panel comprising an array of organic light emitting diodes OLEDs or polymer light emitting diodes PLEDs which function as display pixels and also provide their own illumination. Display system described above in reference to may be representative of such a system provided that pixel array comprises an array of OLEDs or PLEDs. In accordance with such an implementation the amount of light emitted by the individual OLED PLED pixels that make up the OLED PLED pixel array can be selectively controlled so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions of display system can also be controlled. This enables display system to provide a desired brightness level for each display region automatically and or in response to user input. For example the OLED PLED pixel array can be controlled such that a uniform level of brightness is achieved across different simultaneously displayed display regions even though the number of perceptible pixels per unit area varies from display region to display region. As another example the OLED PLED pixel array can be controlled such that the level of brightness associated with a particular display region is increased or reduced without impacting or without substantially impacting the brightness of other simultaneously displayed display regions.

Where OLED PLED pixel regions such as those described above are adjacent to each other it is possible that the brightness characteristics of one pixel region can impact the perceived brightness of an adjacent pixel region having different brightness characteristics creating an undesired visual effect. For example a first OLED PLED pixel region having a relatively high level of brightness to support the viewing of multi view three dimensional content may be adjacent to a second OLED PLED pixel region having a relatively low level of brightness to support the viewing of two dimensional content. In this scenario light from pixels in a perimeter area of the first OLED PLED pixel region that are close to the boundary between the two pixel regions may spill over into a perimeter area of the second OLED PLED pixel region. This may cause pixels in the perimeter area of the second OLED PLED pixel region to appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in the second OLED PLED pixel region. Conversely pixels in the perimeter area of the first OLED PLED pixel array may appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in the first OLED PLED pixel region because of the adjacency to the second OLED PLED pixel region. To address this issue it is possible to selectively increase or reduce the brightness of one or more OLED PLED pixels in either perimeter area to reduce the spill over effect arising from the different brightness characteristics between the regions.

In still further embodiments a regional brightness control scheme is implemented in a display system that includes an adaptable parallax barrier that also supports brightness regulation via an overlay approach. Such an approach involves the use of a brightness regulation overlay that is either independent of or integrated with an adaptable parallax barrier. The brightness regulation overlay is used to help achieve the aforementioned goals of maintaining standard brightness across various regional screen configurations and compensating for or minimizing backlighting dispersion.

The brightness regulation overlay comprises an element that allows regional dimming through various tones of grey pixels. In one example embodiment an adaptable parallax barrier and the brightness regulation overlay are implemented as a non color i.e. black white and grayscale LCD sandwich although other implementations may be used. The combined adaptable parallax barrier and brightness regulation overlay provide full transparent or opaque states for each pixel as well as a grayscale alternative that can be used to balance out brightness variations caused by the parallax barrier its elf.

Control over the individual barrier elements of the parallax barrier and the individual grayscale pixels of the brightness regulation overlay may be provided by using coordinated driver circuitry signaling. Such coordinate signaling may cause the pixels of the adaptable parallax barrier and the brightness regulation overlay collectively referred to below as the manipulator pixels to create opaque and transparent barrier elements associated with a particular parallax barrier configuration and a grayscale support there between to allow creation of overlays.

A first exemplary configuration of adaptable light manipulator is shown above the section line denoted with reference numeral . In accordance with the first exemplary configuration a three dimensional region is created with fully transparent or fully opaque manipulator pixels that provide parallax barrier functionality and a two dimensional region is created having continuous medium gray manipulator pixels. The medium gray manipulator pixels operate to reduce the perceived brightness of two dimensional region to better match that of three dimensional region . It is noted that in other example configurations two dimensional region could instead comprise a three dimensional region having a number of views that is different than three dimensional region thus also requiring brightness regulation.

In the first exemplary configuration no boundary region compensation is performed. In the second exemplary configuration which is shown below section line boundary region compensation is performed. For example a boundary region within two dimensional region may be lightened to a light gray to compensate for any diminution of light that might occur near the boundary with three dimensional region . In contrast the grayscale level of an inner portion of two dimensional region is maintained at the same medium gray level as in the portion of two dimensional region above section line . As a further example a first boundary region and a second boundary region within three dimensional region comprise darker and lighter gray transitional areas respectively to account for light dispersion from two dimensional region . In contrast an inner portion of three dimensional region includes only fully transparent or fully opaque manipulator pixels consistent with a parallax barrier configuration and no brightness regulation.

In one embodiment the configuration of adaptable light manipulator is achieved by first creating a white through various grayscale areas that correspond to the regions and boundary areas to be formed. Once established the manipulator pixels in these areas that comprise the opaque portions of the parallax barrier are overwritten to turn them black. Of course this two stage approach is conceptual only and no overwriting need be performed.

In certain embodiments adaptable light manipulator comprises the only component used in a display system for performing brightness regulation and or boundary region compensation. In alternate embodiments the display system further utilizes any one or more of the following aforementioned techniques for performing brightness regulation and or boundary region compensation a backlight array with independently controllable light sources and or a pixel array and associated control logic for selectively increasing or decreasing the intensity of display pixels e.g. either LCD pixels or OLED PLED pixels . Note that in certain embodiments such as the one described above in reference to adaptable light manipulator is implemented as an integrated adaptable parallax barrier and brightness regulation overlay. However in alternate embodiments adaptable light manipulator is implemented using an adaptable parallax barrier panel and an independent brightness regulation overlay panel.

It is noted that any of the non uniform light generation schemes described above may also be used in conjunction with a display system that includes multiple parallax barriers such as display system of to support simultaneous presentation of regional two dimensional three dimensional and multi view three dimensional views. Furthermore each region supported by such non uniform light generation may comprise a region that simultaneously presents multiple different two dimensional and or three dimensional views to multiple respective viewers.

In display systems in accordance with further embodiments rather than using an adaptable parallax barrier to perform light manipulation in support of multiple viewing configurations an adaptable lenticular lens may be used. For example with respect to example display system of adaptable parallax barrier may be replaced with an adaptable lenticular lens. Likewise with respect to example display system of either of first parallax barrier or second parallax barrier may be replaced with a lenticular lens such as an adaptable lenticular lens.

Further description regarding the use of an adaptable lenticular lens to deliver three dimensional views is provided in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 titled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As shown in control circuitry includes a processing unit which may comprise one or more general purpose or special purpose processors or one or more processing cores. Processing unit is connected to a communication infrastructure such as a communication bus. Control circuitry may also include a primary or main memory not shown in such as random access memory RAM that is connected to communication infrastructure . The main memory may have control logic stored thereon for execution by processing unit as well as data stored thereon that may be input to or output by processing unit during execution of such control logic.

Control circuitry may also include one or more secondary storage devices not shown in that are connected to communication infrastructure including but not limited to a hard disk drive a removable storage drive such as an optical disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive or the like or an interface for communicating with a removable storage unit such as an interface for communicating with a memory card memory stick or the like. Each of these secondary storage devices provide an additional means for storing control logic for execution by processing unit as well as data that may be input to or output by processing unit during execution of such control logic.

Control circuitry further includes a remote control interface that is connected to communication infrastructure . Remote control interface is configured to receive remote control signals from one or more of a plurality of remote control devices. Processing unit or other processing circuitry within control circuitry may be configured to interpret such remote control signals and to perform certain operations based on the interpreted remote control signals. As will be discussed herein such actions may include for example modifying a particular visual presentation being displayed by adaptable screen assembly or obtaining media content for presentation via a particular view supported by adaptable screen assembly . In one embodiment remote control signals received by remote control interface from each of a plurality of remote control devices are interpreted in accordance with a common remote control application programming interface API . Control circuitry may include other interfaces other than remote control interface for receiving input from user.

Control circuitry also includes a viewer tracking unit . Viewer tracking unit is intended to generally represent any type of functionality for determining or estimating a location of one or more viewers of display system relative to adaptable screen assembly a head orientation of one or more viewers of display system and or a point of gaze of one or more viewers of display system . Viewer tracking unit may perform such functions using different types of sensors e.g. cameras motion sensors microphones or the like or by using tracking systems such as those that wirelessly track an object e.g. headset remote control or the like currently being held or worn by a viewer.

Media interface is intended to represent any type of interface that is capable of receiving media content such as video content or image content. In certain implementations media interface may comprise an interface for receiving media content from a remote source such as a broadcast media server an on demand media server or the like. In such implementations media interface may comprise for example and without limitation a wired or wireless internet or intranet connection a satellite interface a fiber interface a coaxial cable interface or a fiber coaxial cable interface. Media interface may also comprise an interface for receiving media content from a local source such as a DVD or Blu Ray disc player a personal computer a personal media player smart phone or the like. Media interface may be capable of retrieving video content from multiple sources.

Control circuitry further includes a communication interface . Communication interface enables control circuitry to send control signals via a communication medium to another communication interface within driver circuitry thereby enabling control circuitry to control the operation of driver circuitry . Communication medium may comprise any kind of wired or wireless communication medium suitable for transmitting such control signals.

As shown in driver circuitry includes the aforementioned communication interface as well as pixel array driver circuitry and adaptable light manipulator s driver circuitry . Driver circuitry also optionally includes light generator driver circuitry . Each of these driver circuitry elements is configured to receive control signals from control circuitry via the link between communication interface and communication interface and responsive thereto to send selected drive signals to a corresponding hardware element within adaptable screen assembly the drive signals causing the corresponding hardware element to operate in a particular manner. In particular pixel array driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to a pixel array within adaptable screen assembly adaptable light manipulator s driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to one or more adaptable light manipulators within adaptable screen assembly and optional light generator driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to an optional light generator within adaptable screen assembly .

In one example mode of operation processing unit operates pursuant to control logic to receive media content via media interface and to generate control signals necessary to cause driver circuitry to render such media content to screen in accordance with a selected viewing configuration. For example processing unit may operate pursuant to control logic to receive first and second media content via media interface and present the first and media content via first and second simultaneously displayed views of adaptable screen assembly to corresponding first and second viewers wherein at least the first view is observable by the first viewer but not the second viewer. The control logic that is executed by processing unit may be retrieved for example from a primary memory or a secondary storage device connected to processing unit via communication infrastructure as discussed above. The control logic may also be retrieved from some other local or remote source. Where the control logic is stored on a computer readable medium that computer readable medium may be referred to herein as a computer program product.

Among other features driver circuitry may be controlled to send coordinated drive signals necessary for simultaneously displaying two dimensional images three dimensional images and multi view three dimensional content via adaptable screen assembly . A manner by which pixel array adaptable light manipulator e.g. an adaptable parallax barrier and light generator may be manipulated in a coordinated fashion to perform this function is described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 filed on even date herewith and entitled Coordinated Driving of Adaptable Light Manipulator Backlighting and Pixel Array in Support of Adaptable 2D and 3D Displays the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Note that in accordance with certain implementations e.g. implementations in which pixel array comprises a OLED PLED pixel array adaptable screen assembly need not include light generator .

In one embodiment at least part of the function of generating control signals necessary to cause pixel array adaptable light manipulator and light generator to render media content to screen in accordance with a selected viewing configuration is performed by drive signal processing circuitry which is integrated within driver circuitry . Such circuitry may operate for example in conjunction with and or under the control of processing unit to generate the necessary control signals.

In certain implementations control circuitry driver circuitry and adaptable screen assembly are all included within a single housing. For example and without limitation all these elements may exist within a television a laptop computer a tablet computer or a telephone. In accordance with such an implementation the link formed between communication interfaces and may be replaced by a direction connection between driver circuitry and communication infrastructure . In an alternate implementation control circuitry is disposed within a first housing such as set top box or personal computer and driver circuitry and adaptable screen assembly are disposed within a second housing such as a television or computer monitor. The set top box may be any type of set top box including but not limited to fiber Internet cable satellite or terrestrial digital.

Remote control devices that can be used to independently modify multiple visual presentations that are simultaneously displayed by a screen assembly will now be described as well as display systems that include such remote control devices and methods of operating the same. For example depicts an exemplary display system that includes such remote control devices.

In particular as shown in display system includes a screen assembly having screen interface circuitry communicatively connected thereto a first remote control device and a second remote control device . Screen assembly is intended to represent a screen assembly that is configurable to simultaneously present multiple different two dimensional or three dimensional views to multiple different viewers respectively. For example screen assembly may represent adaptable screen assembly described above in reference to . In this regard screen assembly may include a pixel array and one or more adaptable light manipulators that manipulate light passed to or from the pixel array to facilitate the presentation of different two dimensional or three dimensional views to different viewers. Particular examples of such simultaneously delivery of different views was discussed above in reference to . In further accordance with such an embodiment screen assembly may also include a non uniform light generation element to support the simultaneous delivery of different types of views via different screen regions.

Screen interface circuitry comprises circuitry configured to perform operations necessary to obtain media content such as video content and image content from one or more local and or remote sources and to cause such media content to be presented to a viewer or viewers via screen assembly . Screen interface circuitry includes a remote control interface that is configured to receive first remote control signals from first remote control device and second remote control signals from second remote control device . Screen interface circuitry is configured to interpret such remote control signals and to perform certain operations based on the interpreted remote control signals. As will be discussed herein such actions may include for example and without limitation modifying a particular two dimensional or three dimensional view being displayed by screen assembly obtaining particular media content for presentation via a particular view supported by screen assembly and controlling the manner in which such obtained media content is delivered to screen assembly . In one embodiment remote control signals received by remote control interface from first remote control device and second remote control device are interpreted in accordance with a common remote control application programming interface API .

Screen interface circuitry may be disposed in a housing that also houses screen assembly or may be disposed in a different housing that is connected thereto. Furthermore elements of screen interface circuitry may be distributed among multiple interconnected housings. In one embodiment screen interface circuitry comprises control circuitry and driver circuitry of which may be disposed in a single housing or distributed among different housings as described above in reference to that figure. In a further embodiment screen interface circuitry may also comprise set top box circuitry such as that described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 062 filed on even date herewith and entitled Set top Box Circuitry Supporting 2D and 3D Content Reductions to Accommodate Viewing Environment Constraints the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

As shown in screen assembly is operating to simultaneously present a first view to a first viewer and a second view to a second viewer wherein each view comprises a presentation of different media content. Such views may also be referred to herein as visual presentations. In accordance with the teachings provided above in Section II each of first view and second view may comprise a two dimensional view. Alternatively each of first view and second view may comprise a three dimensional view. Still further first view may comprise a two dimensional view and second view may comprise a three dimensional view or first view may comprise a three dimensional view and second view may comprise a two dimensional view. A three dimensional view may comprise a single three dimensional view comprising two different perspective views of the same subject matter or multiple different three dimensional views comprising some multiple of two different perspective views of the same subject matter wherein the three dimensional view that is currently being perceived by a viewer will depend on the location of the viewer relative to screen assembly . It is to be understood that screen assembly may be configurable to present more than two views to more than two viewers respectively.

In further accordance with the teachings provided above in Section II due to the configuration of one or more adaptable light manipulators included within screen assembly first view may be observable only by first viewer and second view may be observable only by second viewer .

As will be described herein first remote control device may advantageously be used by first viewer to independently control first view . For example first remote control device may be used by first viewer to make modifications to first view that will not also be made to second view even though both views emanate from the same screen assembly. Such modifications may include but are not limited to a modification of any of the following aspects of first view a size shape or screen location of first view a resolution of the pixels observable via first view a colorization of the pixels observable via first view a contrast associated with the pixels observable via first view a brightness associated with the pixels observable via first view a number of perspective views provided via the pixels observable via first view and a three dimensional intensity associated with images displayed via the observable pixels of first view . First remote control device may also be used by first viewer to select the media content that is to be presented via first view or to modify the manner in which such media content is presented via first view .

In a like manner second remote control device may advantageously be used by second viewer to independently control second view . For example second remote control device may be used by second viewer to make modifications to second view that will not also be made to first view even though both views emanate from the same screen assembly. Such modifications may include any of those listed in the preceding paragraph with respect to first view . Second remote control device may also be used by second viewer to select the media content that is to be presented via second view or to modify the manner in which such media content is presented via second view .

In an embodiment first view is supported by a first set of pixels of a pixel array within screen assembly and second view is supported by a second set of pixels within the same pixel array. The first and second sets of pixels may generally occupy the same area of the pixel array but be arranged in an overlapping or interleaved fashion. Alternatively the first and second set of pixels may occupy entirely different areas of the pixel array. Still further the first and second sets of pixels may be only partly overlapping.

In accordance with the latter approach first viewer may utilize remote control device to apply modifications to his or her version of shared view that will not be applied to the version of shared view received by second viewer e.g. modifications to size shape screen location resolution colorization contrast brightness number of perspective views and three dimensional intensity as discussed above . In further accordance with the latter approach first viewer may utilize remote control device to modify the manner in which the media content that supports shared view is delivered to his or her version of shared view e.g. to pause rewind fast forward or perform other operations with respect to the delivery of such media content to his or her version of shared view . Likewise second viewer may utilize remote control device to apply modifications to his or her version of shared view that will not be applied to the version of shared view received by first viewer or to modify the manner in which the media content that supports shared view is delivered to his or version of shared view .

As further shown in first view includes a third view that is observable by first viewer but not by second viewer . In an embodiment third view is presented to first viewer but not to second viewer by using one or more adaptable light manipulators of screen assembly to deliver certain pixels in a region of a pixel array corresponding to third view to first viewer but not to second viewer and to deliver certain other pixels in the region of the pixel array corresponding to third view to second viewer but not to first viewer .

Third view comprises a presentation of media content that is different than the media content used to support shared view . For example third view may comprise a picture in picture display of such other media content. For example in accordance with one configuration shared view comprises a visual presentation of first video content while third view comprises a picture in picture visual presentation of second video content. However this is only an example and third view may comprise a visual presentation of other types of media content as well.

In accordance with the configuration shown in first viewer can use first remote control to apply modifications to third view select media content for presentation via third view and control the manner of delivery of such media content to third view . Since second viewer cannot see third view the results of such operations will not be observable by second viewer .

As also shown in second view includes a fourth view a fifth view and a sixth view that are observable to second viewer but not to first viewer . In an embodiment these views are presented to second viewer but not to first viewer by using one or more adaptable light manipulators of screen assembly to deliver certain pixels in regions of a pixel array corresponding to these views to second viewer but not to first viewer and to deliver certain other pixels in the regions of the pixel array corresponding to these views to first viewer but not to second viewer .

Each of fourth view fifth view and sixth view comprises a presentation of media content that is different than the media content used to support shared view . For example in one embodiment each of fourth view fifth view and sixth view may comprise a visual presentation of a different interactive graphical element or widget that appears overlaid upon shared view . However this is only an example and each of these views may comprise visual presentations of other types of media content as well.

In accordance with the configuration shown in second viewer can use second remote control to apply modifications to any of fourth view fifth view and sixth view select media content for presentation via fourth view fifth view and sixth view and control the manner of delivery of such media content to fourth view fifth view and sixth view . In an embodiment in which any of fourth view fifth view and sixth view delivers interactive media content second viewer can use second remote control to interact with such media content. Since first viewer cannot see fourth view fifth view or sixth view the results of such operations will not be observable by first viewer .

Various additional techniques by which an adaptable screen assembly may be used to support independent viewer modification of a shared view such as shared view shown in are described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 362 filed on even date herewith and entitled Independent Viewer Tailoring of Same Media Source Content via a Common 2D 3D Display the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

The elements of remote control device may be disposed within a single housing. For example the elements of remote control device may be disposed within a single housing designed for portability and or handheld operation. In an alternate embodiment the elements of remote control device are distributed among multiple housings e.g. an embodiment in which remote control device is implemented using a personal computer comprising a number of input output devices a case that houses processing circuitry and a display .

Remote control device may be designed for exclusive use with a particular display system or screen assembly such as with display system or screen assembly . Alternatively remote control device may be designed for providing control functionality across a variety of display systems screen assemblies media sources or the like. Furthermore the elements of remote control device may also comprise part of a device or system that is capable of performing functions in addition to controlling elements of a display system. Such devices or systems may include for example and without limitation a phone a game controller or console a personal media player a personal digital assistant PDA a tablet computer an electronic book reader a tablet computer a laptop computer a desktop computer or the like. For example in an embodiment in which remote control device comprises a phone phone circuitry i.e. circuitry configured to perform telephony operations may be disposed within a same housing as remote control circuitry i.e. circuitry configured to perform any of the remote control operations described herein .

User interface comprises one or more elements that enable a viewer to provide input to remote control and in some implementations receive output therefrom. User interface may comprise any number of user interface elements that allow a user to provide input including but not limited to buttons keys a keypad a scroll pad a thumb wheel a pointing device a roller ball a stick pointer a joystick a thumb pad a touch sensitive display a voice recognition system a haptic interface and or the like. In an embodiment in which remote control device comprises part of a personal computer user interface may further comprise a keyboard mouse or other conventional input device typically used with a personal computer. User interface may also comprise any number of user interface elements that present output to a user including but not limited to one or more displays speakers or the like.

Processing circuitry is configured to receive user input provided via user interface and to selectively perform certain functions in response to same. Such functions include generating remote control signals for transmission to screen interface circuitry connected to a screen assembly such as screen interface circuitry connected to screen assembly . The signals so generated by processing circuitry are suitable to cause the screen interface circuitry to perform various operations with respect to the screen assembly such as but not limited to controlling one or more visual presentations of the screen assembly obtaining or selecting media content for delivery to one or more viewers via a visual presentation of the screen assembly or controlling the manner in which media content is delivered via a visual presentation. Various exemplary operations that may be performed by screen interface circuitry responsive to the receipt of such remote control signals will be described below.

In one embodiment processing circuitry is configured to generate remote control signals in accordance with a remote control API supported by the screen interface circuitry thereby ensuring that the screen interface circuitry will be able to properly interpret such remote control signals. For example the remote control API may specify a list of command codes that can be used to execute control operations with respect to a display system screen assembly and or media source. In accordance with such an embodiment the remote control signals generated by processing circuitry will represent one or more such command codes.

Transmitter comprises circuitry that is configured to transmit the remote control signals generated by processing circuitry to screen interface circuitry connected to a screen assembly such as screen interface circuitry connected to screen assembly . Transmitter may be configured to transmit such remote control signals in a wireless or wired fashion. For example with respect to wireless transmission transmitter may be configured to transmit line of sight infrared IR signals or radio frequency RF signals to the screen interface circuitry. Where IR signaling is used the signaling may be carried out in accordance with the well known Infrared Data Association IrDA specifications. Where RF signaling is used the signaling may be carried out for example over an IEEE 802.11 wireless channel or a Bluetooth link. Still other wireless channels and protocols may be used. With respect to wired transmission transmitter may be configured to transmit signals over a wired serial link a wired Internet Protocol IP link or other wired communication medium.

Various example operations that may be performed by screen interface circuitry such as screen interface circuitry responsive to the receipt of appropriate remote control signals from remote control device will now be described. The operations described herein are provided by way of example only and are not intended to be limiting. Persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that operations other than those described herein may be performed by screen interface circuitry responsive to the receipt of remote control signals from remote control .

The screen interface circuitry may cause a screen assembly attached thereto to create or set up one or more views responsive to the receipt of remote control signals from remote control device . For example with continued reference to screen interface circuitry may cause screen assembly to set up any of views and . Remote control device may be used to set up a view observable only to a viewer operating remote control device a view observable only to a viewer other than the viewer operating remote control device or to set up a view observable to both viewers. Setting up a view may comprise one or more of setting a size of the view a shape of the view a screen location of the view a resolution associated with the view a colorization associated with the view a contrast associated with the view a brightness associated with the view a number of perspective views provided by the view and a three dimensional intensity of the view as well as selecting locations at which a view should be observable or viewers that should be able to observe the view.

The screen interface circuitry may cause a screen assembly attached thereto to modify an existing view responsive to the receipt of remote control signals from remote control device . For example with continued reference to screen interface circuitry may cause screen assembly to modify any of views and . Remote control device may be used to modify a view observable only to a viewer operating remote control device a view observable only to a viewer other than the viewer operating remote control device or to modify a view observable to both viewers. Modifying a view may comprise one or more of modifying a size of the view a shape of the view a screen location of the view a resolution associated with the view a colorization associated with the view a contrast associated with the view a brightness associated with the view a number of perspective views provided by the view and a three dimensional intensity of the view as well as modifying the locations at which a view is observable or modifying which viewers should be able to observe the view. With respect to modifying which viewers should be able to observe a view remote control device may be used by a viewer to switch between various views.

The screen interface circuitry may obtain media content from one or more media content sources for delivery to a view supported by a screen assembly attached thereto responsive to the receipt of remote control signals from remote control device . Such media content sources may include for example and without limitation local media content sources and remote media content sources. Local media content sources may include for example a computer e.g. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a Digital Versatile Disc DVD player a Blu ray disc player a game console a personal media player a telephone or a PDA. Remote media content sources may include for example any of a variety of media sources that can deliver media content via a satellite infrastructure a fiber cable infrastructure an IP network or via terrestrial broadcast.

In one embodiment a viewer may operate remote control to cause different media content to be presented via different views that may be observable or non observable with respect to the viewer. For example the viewer may operate remote control to cause first media content to be displayed via a view that is observable to the viewer and to cause second media content to be displayed via a view that is not observable to the viewer. The first and second media content may originate from the same media source or from different media sources. The viewer may also operate remote control to cause different media content to be presented to a single view that may be observable or non observable with respect to the viewer. Again the different media content may originate from the same media source or from different media sources. In accordance with this example a viewer may operate remote control to cause certain supplemental media content to be overlaid upon or otherwise displayed in conjunction with other media content that is being presented via a particular view. A set top box that is capable of retrieving such supplemental media content and delivering it to a screen assembly was described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 062 filed on even date herewith and entitled Set top Box Circuitry Supporting 2D and 3D Content Reductions to Accommodate Viewing Environment Constraints. 

The screen interface circuitry may alter the manner in which media content is delivered from one or more media content sources to a view supported by a screen assembly attached thereto responsive to the receipt of remote control signals from remote control device . For example where the media content comprises video content the screen interface circuitry may pause rewind or fast forward the video content.

User interface comprises one or more elements that enable a viewer to provide input to remote control and receive output therefrom. User interface may comprise any of the user interface elements described above in reference to user interface of as well as other user interface elements. As shown in user interface includes at least one output element in the form of a display .

Processing circuitry is configured to receive user input provided via user interface and to selectively perform certain functions in response to same. Such functions include generating remote control signals for transmission to screen interface circuitry connected to a screen assembly such as screen interface circuitry connected to screen assembly . The signals so generated by processing circuitry are suitable to cause the screen interface circuitry to perform various operations with respect to the screen assembly such as but not limited to controlling one or more visual presentations of the screen assembly obtaining or selecting media content for delivery to one or more viewers via a visual presentation of the screen assembly or controlling the manner in which media content is delivered via a visual presentation. Various exemplary operations that may be performed by screen interface circuitry responsive to the receipt of such remote control signals were described above.

Transmitter comprises circuitry that is configured to transmit the remote control signals generated by processing circuitry to screen interface circuitry connected to a screen assembly such as screen interface circuitry connected to screen assembly . Like transmitter described above in reference to transmitter may be configured to transmit such remote control signals in a wireless or wired fashion.

Viewer tracking circuitry comprises circuitry that determines or generates information useful for determining a current viewing reference of a viewer such as a viewer holding remote control . The viewing reference of the viewer may comprise for example a position or location of the viewer relative to a screen assembly a head orientation of the viewer e.g. tilt and or rotation and a point of gaze of the viewer. Such viewing reference information may be used by screen interface circuitry such as screen interface circuitry to configure a screen assembly such as screen assembly to deliver a view in accordance with such viewing reference. For example such viewing reference information may be used by screen interface circuitry to cause a screen assembly to deliver a particular view to a particular viewer location or eye location. Examples of remote control devices and other viewer located circuitry that can be used to generate such viewing reference information are described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 069 filed on even date herewith and entitled Three Dimensional Display System With Adaptation Based on Viewing Reference of Viewer s the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Camera s and microphone s may be used to capture image and audio information respectively which can be used for a variety of purposes. For example such image and audio information may be used by viewer tracking circuitry to determine a current location of a viewer operating remote control device . Additionally such image and audio information may be used to provide feedback to a display system concerning a current viewing or listening experience of an operator of remote control device . Such feedback information can then be used to adaptively adjust a manner of operation of a screen assembly or a speaker system to provide an improved viewing or listening experience respectively. Microphone s can also be used to enable a viewer to utilize voice commands to invoke control functionality of remote control device .

Receiver comprises a receiver configured to receive signals over a wired or wireless communication channel. In one embodiment receiver is configured to receive media content from a local or remote media source or information about such media content for display on display . Such functionality enables a viewer to use remote control device to obtain information about desired media content and even preview such media content on display before viewing such media content on a screen assembly controlled by remote control device . In an embodiment in which multiple remote control devices are used each remote control device can be used by a different viewer to simultaneously obtain information about and preview different media content. In one embodiment a viewer can use remote control device to cause media content currently being rendered to display to also be rendered to a screen assembly.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which first input is received from a first viewer via a first input interface of the first remote control device. At step first remote control circuitry within the first remote control device responds to the first input by sending a first remote control signal via the screen interface circuitry to modify the first visual presentation. Various ways in which the first visual presentation may be modified were described extensively above. At step second input is received from a second viewer via a second input interface of the second remote control device. At step second remote control circuitry within the second remote control device responds to the second input by sending a second remote control signal via the screen interface circuitry to modify the second visual presentation. Various ways in which the second visual presentation may be modified were described extensively above.

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which first user input is received from a first user. Such first user input may be received for example from the first user via a user interface such as user interface of remote control device . At step the first user input is responded to by producing a first remote control signal that is suitable to cause a first visual presentation to be observable by a first viewer but not by a second viewer. Such first remote control signal may be produced for example by processing circuitry of remote control device . At step the first remote control signal produced during step is delivered to screen interface circuitry. For example transmitter of remote control device may operate to deliver the first remote control signal to the screen interface circuitry.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

