---

title: Compositions and methods for defining cells
abstract: Disclosed are compositions and methods for classifying stem cells. The disclosure provides a way to define cells using a computational analysis.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08442772&OS=08442772&RS=08442772
owner: 
number: 08442772
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100820
---
This application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 236 124 filed Aug. 23 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 274 958 filed Aug. 24 2009 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under P20 GM075059 01 awarded by the NIH. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The Sequence Listing submitted Nov. 15 2010 as a text file named 255762840320101115 AMD AFD Sequence Listing Text File.txt created on Sep. 29 2010 and having a size of 2 764 bytes is hereby incorporated by reference pursuant to 37 C.F.R. 1.52 e 5 .

Stem cells are defined as self renewing cell populations that can differentiate into multiple distinct cell types. However hundreds of different human cell lines from embryonic fetal and adult sources have been called stem cells even though they range from pluripotent cells typified by embryonic stem cells which are capable of virtually unlimited proliferation and differentiation to adult stem cell lines which can generate a far more limited repertoire of differentiated cell types. The rapid increase in reports of new sources of stem cells and their anticipated value to regenerative medicine Muller et al. Nature Rev Neurosci 7 75 84 2006 Murry et al. Cell 132 661 680 2008 has highlighted the need for a general reproducible method for classification of these cells Adewumi et al. Nature Biotech. 25 803 816 2007 . The creation and analysis of a database of global gene expression profiles stem cell matrix enables the classification of cultured human stem cells in the context of a wide variety of pluripotent multipotent and differentiated cell types. Using an unsupervised clustering method Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 4169 2004 Gao et al. Bioinformatics 21 3970 3975 2005 to categorize a collection of 150 cell samples pluripotent stem cell lines were discovered to group together whereas other cell types including brain derived neural stem cell lines are very diverse. Using further bioinformatic analysis Ulitsky et al. BMC Syst Biol 1 8 2007 a protein protein network PluriNet was uncovered that is shared by the pluripotent cells embryonic stem cells embryonal carcinomas and induced pluripotent cells . Analysis of published data showed that the PluriNet seems to be a common characteristic of pluripotent cells including mouse embryonic stem and induced pluripotent cells and human oocytes. This analysis provides a new strategy for classifying stem cells and supports the idea that pluripotency and self renewal are under tight control by specific molecular networks.

Before the present compounds compositions articles devices and or methods are disclosed and described it is to be understood that they are not limited to specific synthetic methods or specific recombinant biotechnology methods unless otherwise specified or to particular reagents unless otherwise specified as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of skill in the art to which the disclosed method and compositions belong. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present method and compositions the particularly useful methods devices and materials are as described.

It is understood that the disclosed method and compositions are not limited to the particular methodology protocols and reagents described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims.

Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments of the method and compositions described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a pharmaceutical carrier includes mixtures of two or more such carriers and the like.

About modifying for example the quantity of an ingredient in a composition concentrations volumes process temperature process time yields flow rates pressures and like values and ranges thereof employed in describing the embodiments of the disclosure refers to variation in the numerical quantity that can occur for example through typical measuring and handling procedures used for making compounds compositions concentrates or use formulations through inadvertent error in these procedures through differences in the manufacture source or purity of starting materials or ingredients used to carry out the methods and like considerations. The term about also encompasses amounts that differ due to aging of a composition or formulation with a particular initial concentration or mixture and amounts that differ due to mixing or processing a composition or formulation with a particular initial concentration or mixture. Whether modified by the term about the claims appended hereto include equivalents to these quantities.

Abbreviations which are well known to one of ordinary skill in the art may be used e.g. h or hr for hour or hours g or gm for gram s mL for milliliters and rt for room temperature nm for nanometers M for molar and like abbreviations .

The term cell as used herein also refers to individual cells cell lines or cultures derived from such cells. A culture refers to a composition comprising isolated cells of the same or a different type. The term co culture is used to designate when more than one type of cell are cultured together in the same dish with either full or partial contact with each other.

 Cell culture or cell culturing refers to the process by which either prokaryotic or eukaryotic cells are grown under controlled conditions. Cell culture not only refers to the culturing of cells derived from multicellular eukaryotes especially animal cells but also the culturing of complex tissues and organs.

Compounds and compositions have their standard meaning in the art. For the purposes of the present disclosure the terms compound and composition can be used for any reference of a molecule or like herein for the chemical entities described herein including all enantiomeric forms diastereomeric forms salts and the like.

Disclosed are the components to be used to prepare the disclosed compositions as well as the compositions themselves to be used within the methods disclosed herein. These and other materials are disclosed herein and it is understood that when combinations subsets interactions groups etc. of these materials are disclosed that while specific reference of each various individual and collective combinations and permutation of these molecules may not be explicitly disclosed each is specifically contemplated and described herein. Thus if a class of molecules A B and C are disclosed as well as a class of molecules D E and F and an example of a combination molecule A D is disclosed then even if each is not individually recited each is individually and collectively contemplated meaning combinations A E A F B D B E B F C D C E and C F are considered disclosed. Likewise any subset or combination of these is also disclosed. Thus for example the sub group of A E B F and C E would be considered disclosed. This concept applies to all aspects of this application including but not limited to steps in methods of making and using the disclosed compositions. Thus if there are a variety of additional steps that can be performed it is understood that each of these additional steps can be performed with any specific embodiment or combination of embodiments of the disclosed methods.

Throughout the description and claims of this specification the word comprise and variations of the word such as comprising and comprises means including but not limited to and is not intended to exclude for example other additives components integers or steps.

 Consisting essentially of in embodiments refers for example to a surface composition a method of making or using a surface composition formulation or composition on the surface of the biosensor and articles devices or apparatus of the disclosure and can include the components or steps listed in the claim plus other components or steps that do not materially affect the basic and novel properties of the compositions articles apparatus and methods of making and use of the disclosure such as particular reactants particular additives or ingredients a particular agents a particular cell or cell line a particular surface modifier or condition a particular ligand candidate or like structure material or process variable selected. Items that may materially affect the basic properties of the components or steps of the disclosure or may impart undesirable characteristics to the present disclosure include for example decreased affinity of the cell for the biosensor surface aberrant affinity of a stimulus for a cell surface receptor or for an intracellular receptor anomalous or contrary cell activity in response to a ligand candidate or like stimulus and like characteristics.

A global profile is a profile of a characteristic such as but not limited to expression of mRNA microRNA DNA methylation DNA sequence transcription factor binding proteins proteome wide phospho proteins in which there is not a preselection of what genes DNA sites or what proteins or what subset of the characteristic should be profiled with a specific technique e.g. microarrays .

The terms higher increases elevates or elevation or variants of these terms refer to increases above basal levels e.g. as compared to a control. The terms low lower reduces or reduction or variation of these terms refer to decreases below basal levels e.g. as compared to a control. For example basal levels are normal in vivo levels prior to or in the absence of or addition of an agent such as an agonist or antagonist to activity.

By inhibit or other forms of inhibit means to hinder or restrain a particular characteristic. It is understood that this is typically in relation to some standard or expected value in other words it is relative but that it is not always necessary for the standard or relative value to be referred to. For example inhibits phosphorylation means hindering or restraining the amount of phosphorylation that takes place relative to a standard or a control.

 Optional or optionally means that the subsequently described event or circumstance may or may not occur and that the description includes instances where said event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not.

 Optional or optionally or like terms means that the subsequently described event or circumstance can or cannot occur and that the description includes instances where the event or circumstance occurs and instances where it does not. For example the phrase optionally the composition can comprise a combination means that the composition may comprise a combination of different molecules or may not include a combination such that the description includes both the combination and the absence of the combination i.e. individual members of the combination .

 Primers are a subset of probes which are capable of supporting some type of enzymatic manipulation and which can hybridize with a target nucleic acid such that the enzymatic manipulation can occur. A primer can be made from any combination of nucleotides or nucleotide derivatives or analogs available in the art which do not interfere with the enzymatic manipulation.

A protein protein network is a list of pairwise interacting proteins. These interactions have been derived from previous studies where e.g. the binding of a protein A to protein B has been shown with biochemical functional or other biological assays. This interaction can represent a physical covalent or non covalent binding event of protein A with protein B or the transient binding of protein A to protein B in a short lived biochemical reaction such as when protein A phosphorylates protein B .

 Probes are molecules capable of interacting with a target nucleic acid typically in a sequence specific manner for example through hybridization. The hybridization of nucleic acids is well understood in the art and discussed herein. Typically a probe can be made from any combination of nucleotides or nucleotide derivatives or analogs available in the art.

By prevent or other forms of prevent means to stop a particular characteristic or condition. Prevent does not require comparison to a control as it is typically more absolute than for example reduce or inhibit. As used herein something could be reduced but not inhibited or prevented but something that is reduced could also be inhibited or prevented. It is understood that where reduce inhibit or prevent are used unless specifically indicated otherwise the use of the other two words is also expressly disclosed. Thus if inhibits phosphorylation is disclosed then reduces and prevents phosphorylation are also disclosed.

Throughout this application various publications are referenced. The disclosures of these publications in their entireties are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the state of the art to which this pertains. The references disclosed are also individually and specifically incorporated by reference herein for the material contained in them that is discussed in the sentence in which the reference is relied upon.

The word or or like terms as used herein means any one member of a particular list and also includes any combination of members of that list.

Ranges can be expressed herein as from about one particular value and or to about another particular value. When such a range is expressed another embodiment includes from the one particular value and or to the other particular value. Similarly when values are expressed as approximations by use of the antecedent about it will be understood that the particular value forms another embodiment. It will be further understood that the endpoints of each of the ranges are significant both in relation to the other endpoint and independently of the other endpoint. It is also understood that there are a number of values disclosed herein and that each value is also herein disclosed as about that particular value in addition to the value itself. For example if the value 10 is disclosed then about 10 is also disclosed. It is also understood that when a value is disclosed that less than or equal to the value greater than or equal to the value and possible ranges between values are also disclosed as appropriately understood by the skilled artisan. For example if the value 10 is disclosed the less than or equal to 10 as well as greater than or equal to 10 is also disclosed. It is also understood that the throughout the application data are provided in a number of different formats and that this data represents endpoints and starting points and ranges for any combination of the data points. For example if a particular datum point 10 and a particular datum point 15 are disclosed it is understood that greater than greater than or equal to less than less than or equal to and equal to 10 and 15 are considered disclosed as well as between 10 and 15. It is also understood that each unit between two particular units are also disclosed. For example if 10 and 15 are disclosed then 11 12 13 and 14 are also disclosed.

By reduce or other forms of reduce means lowering of an event or characteristic. It is understood that this is typically in relation to some standard or expected value in other words it is relative but that it is not always necessary for the standard or relative value to be referred to. For example reduces phosphorylation means lowering the amount of phosphorylation that takes place relative to a standard or a control.

By sample or like terms is meant an animal a plant a fungus etc. a natural product a natural product extract etc. a tissue or organ from an animal a cell either within a subject taken directly from a subject or a cell maintained in culture or from a cultured cell line a cell lysate or lysate fraction or cell extract or a solution containing one or more molecules derived from a cell or cellular material e.g. a polypeptide or nucleic acid which is assayed as described herein. A sample may also be any body fluid or excretion for example but not limited to blood urine stool saliva tears bile that contains cells or cell components.

A stem cell matrix is a collection or database of global profiling data such as global molecular analysis profiles which may be gene expression profiles microRNA expression profiles non coding RNA profiles DNA methylation profiles transcription factor binding profiles proteomic profiles global proteome wide phospho protein profiles DNA sequence profiles or a combination of elements of the mentioned global profiles.

As used throughout by a subject or like terms is meant an individual. Thus the subject can include for example domesticated animals such as cats dogs etc. livestock e.g. cattle horses pigs sheep goats etc. laboratory animals e.g. mouse rabbit rat guinea pig etc. and mammals non human mammals primates non human primates rodents birds reptiles amphibians fish and any other animal. In one aspect the subject is a mammal such as a primate or a human. The subject can be a non human.

 Treating or treatment does not mean a complete cure. It means that the symptoms of the underlying disease are reduced and or that one or more of the underlying cellular physiological or biochemical causes

A transcriptional profile is the complete or partial set of data obtained from a cell or a population of cells that can be determined from a single time point or over a period of time consisting of the RNA types that are transcribed from the genome. These RNA types include but are not limited to mRNA microRNA miRNA PIWI interacting RNAs piRNAs endogenous small interfering RNAs e siRNAs TINY RNAs tiRNA long non coding RNAs or a combination of the mentioned RNA types

A computer network or like terms are one or more computers in operable communication with each other.

Computer implemented or like terms refers to one or more steps being actions being performed by a computer computer system or computer network.

A computer program product or like terms refers to product which can be implemented and used on a computer such as software.

Unsupervised classification is a computational algorithm based classification system which builds models based on a set of inputs where not all labels for all samples are available or known or understood. As disclosed herein what has been defined by others as semi supervised machine learning which combines both labeled and unlabeled examples to generate an appropriate function or classifier as unsupervised classification system can be used.

An unsupervised cluster method is an unsupervised machine learning approach to cluster transcriptional profiles of the cell preparations into stable groups.

For example consensus clustering Monti S. P. Tamayo J. Mesirov and T. Golub 2003 . Consensus Clustering A Resampling Based Method for Class Discovery and Visualization of Gene Expression Microarray Data. 52 1 2 91 118. outputs a sample wise distance matrix where the distance between every sample to every other sample in the dataset is represented by a value set between 1 indistinguishable similar in the context of the data set and 0 no similarity detectable in the context of the dataset . A cluster is defined in the consensus clustering framework of a set of samples with high similarity based on the sample wise distance matrix based on a cutoff set by the consensus clustering algorithm individually for each model. Every other algorithm which outputs a fitting clustering model with and distance measure among all samples can be used instead of the consensus clustering algorithm.

A similar label profile could be a common regulatory biochemical or metabolic activity. A similar label profile could be labels from the reference data set e.g. induced pluripotent stem cells labels which were derived computationally e.g. some or all samples belonging to one or more specified clusters or a combination thereof e.g. some or all induced pluripotent stem cells which also belong to one or more computationally derived clusters . This could be the identification of a set of marker genes proteins or pathways different among computationally derived clusters which can be identified in the future with other biochemical techniques and thus allow identification of computationally identified cluster members with a biochemical assay.

A labeled associated biological class is a class based upon a biological definition of a cell such as by markers or expression with the main characteristic being that the class is determined by a subset of the total possible profile information.

A cell characteristic analysis system is a system which can assay a characteristic of a cell such as gene expression microRNA expression or methylation patterning.

Obtaining as used in the context of data or values such as characteristic data or values refers to acquiring this data or values. It can be acquired by for example collection such as through a machine such as a micro array analysis machine. It can also be acquired by downloading or getting data that has already been collected and for example stored in a way in which it can be retrieved at a later time.

An updated reference database or like terms is a reference database which has had a dataset merged into it.

Characteristic data refers to any data of a cell such as gene expression microRNA expression or for example methylation patterning.

Specific and preferred values disclosed for components ingredients additives cell types markers and like aspects and ranges thereof are for illustration only they do not exclude other defined values or other values within defined ranges. The compositions apparatus and methods of the disclosure include those having any value or any combination of the values specific values more specific values and preferred values described herein.

Thus the disclosed methods compositions articles and machines can be combined in a manner to comprise consist of or consist essentially of the various components steps molecules and composition and the like discussed herein. They can be used for example in methods for characterizing a molecule including a ligand as defined herein a method of producing an index as defined herein or a method of drug discovery as defined herein.

References in the specification and concluding claims to parts by weight of a particular element or component in a composition or article denotes the weight relationship between the element or component and any other elements or components in the composition or article for which a part by weight is expressed. Thus in a compound containing 2 parts by weight of component X and 5 parts by weight component Y X and Y are present at a weight ratio of 2 5 and are present in such ratio regardless of whether additional components are contained in the compound.

A weight percent of a component unless specifically stated to the contrary is based on the total weight of the formulation or composition in which the component is included.

Defining what characterizes a specific type of cell has plagued scientists for many years. Sometimes a cell or collection of cells is defined by what the cell does or is expected to do. For example a pancreatic islet cell produces insulin a neuron releases a neurotransmitter or makes and electrical connection and a pluripotent stem cell is defined as a cell that can divide indefinitely without differentiating but can under the appropriate conditions differentiate into all three germ layers mesoderm ectoderm and endoderm. While this type of definition is very helpful it also is problematic. For example functional definitions can only identify cells at a specific time point under a specific set of conditions. Cells may as part of their particular identity have multiple functions or characteristics that change over time. Another problem is that just as in structural biology many protein structures exist to solve a given functional problem so also more than one cell type can exist which achieves a given set of functional properties. Are these different cells then or the same cell This problem is magnified when cells are removed from their sites in the body and are placed into tissue culture. An example of this can be found in the pluripotent stem field. Embryonic germ cells embryonic stem cells and induced pluripotent stem cells all purportedly meet the functional definition provided above for a pluripotent stem cell. However the cells express different markers have different ratios of proteins and look morphologically different. Are they the same cell type or a different cell type 

Scientists have attempted to address the limitations of functionally defining cells by defining them based on observable markers. Marker as used in this context is a particular protein or gene or glycoprotein for example which is present or not present on the cell type of interest relative to another cell type. Typically this type of structural definition uses many markers. Problems exist with this type of definition as well. For example expression markers believed to be typical of a specific cell type are often found on other types of cells. Thus markers are not sufficient to distinguish specific cell types.

Lastly cells can be defined by where they come from for example from a liver organ a heart organ or a muscle. A cell isolated from this type of tissue and then cultured is a cell that makes up the particular tissue. This way of defining a cell ultimately has problems as well as the cells change after repeated doublings in culture so that they may no longer be similar to the type of cell that makes up the organ.

The compositions methods algorithms and systems disclosed herein are designed to produce a new way of defining a cell. This new way is called a computed definition and the previous types of definitions are referred to as biological definitions functional structural genesis . The computed definition is related to a biological definition but as discussed herein the computed definition provides a more robust and accurate way of comparing two different cells and determining whether they are the same type of cell or different cell types.

The computed definition refers to the use of computational analysis of information to arrive at the definition. Disclosed are databases of information about one or more cells. For example some of the databases are reference databases. A reference database can comprise cell datasets that are produced from cell data for at least two known cell lines tissues or primary cells. By known cell line tissue or primary cell is meant a cell line for which some characteristic such as phenotype such as a stem cell such as an embryonic stem cell can and has been identified by conventional biological assays e.g. derivation method source material biochemical assays e.g. alkaline phosphatase activity or markers like specific identified proteins which are thought to be able to identify a specific cell type. A computed phenotype can be defined by the global profiling methods such as gene expression or other molecular profiling method which is then utilized in the methods disclosed herein. Biological phenotypes such as whether a cell is a stem cell or differentiated cell which have been determined using subsets of profiling data such as a subset of markers or gene expression can be used and incorporated into the methods in the form of labeled associated biological classes.

A reference database can be a stable database which is compiled and is stable and can be used over and over again like an atlas. However a reference database can also be self evolving. By self evolving is meant that each time the database has something compared to it it is used as a control or comparison to some other cell having a question about a property for which the database has been sorted the reference database can be updated with the a new member. This can be referred to as an updated reference database. It is understood that an updated reference database is also a reference database.

In certain embodiments the reference database and updated reference databases can exist in a shared way such that multiple users can access them and update them such as a central database.

The reference database is made up of cell datasets and each cell dataset is made up of characteristic data. Characteristic data are output from for example mRNA expression analysis microRNA expression analysis protein expression analysis post translational protein modification analysis non coding RNA expression analysis DNA methylation pattern analysis histone modification analysis transcription factor DNA site binding analysis DNA sequence analysis or any other type of cell characteristic.

The methods compositions and machines disclosed herein typically use cell types that are important or desired in research such as medical research or developmental research. For example the cells could be stem cells such as pluripotent stem cells or the cells could be chosen to include every cell type from the human body genetically engineered or not engineered cultured or isolated from tissues or organs from embryonic fetal or adult material. While the database can be produced with a subset of cells from a given biological class the database can also be produced from a complete set of the biological classes. For example a reference database comprised of pluripotent cells could have 10 cell lines or the database could be comprised of as many of the pluripotent cell lines as possible. Generally for most purposes the database is produced to include more datasets.

The characteristic data is obtained by global profiling. Global profiling refers to obtaining characteristic data from whole genome transcriptional profiling and can include for a Stem Cell Matrix whole genome methylation profile whole genome microRNA expression profiles whole genome non coding RNA profiles whole genome histone modification profiles or DNA sequence profiles for example. Typically one wants to examine as much data as possible and incorporate this into the database. As used herein a matrix refers to a reference database of a particular set of biologically defined cells for example stem cells or liver cells. A key aspect of global profiling is the lack of predetermined data biasing. For example with stem cells one can examine the mRNA expression of a set of biologically defined stem cells. The literature related to these particular stem cells may identify for example a set of 25 genes that are expressed in a cell that the literature identifies as a stem cell. To arrive at a computed definition of these cells the reference database is made up of the cell dataset which is made up of the characteristic data which in this case is the mRNA expression data but when obtaining the mRNA expression data it is not limited to the 25 genes it is made up of 100 500 1000 5000 or even 25 000 genes. The biological definition of the known gene expression of the biologically defined stem cells is used to pick the initial set of cells but it is not used to arrive at the computed definition.

This concept can be applied for any characteristic made up in a global profile which is the set of all different characteristics for which data are obtained for the reference database. Described in another way a global profile can be made up of one dataset as disclosed herein for one characteristic but it can also include more than one dataset for more than one characteristic.

It is not required that there be a certain number of members in the dataset however generally more members are preferred. But what is required is that a prespecified marker set as discussed herein not be used. One way of achieving this is to use microarrays or the like and examine all of the elements of the array not just a subset. One could for example examine all expressed genes. A key aspect to the overall success of the computed definition occurs in the implementation of a like global profiling method for comparing a dataset of a cell to the reference database. For example in certain embodiments if three different characteristics such as mRNA expression microRNA expression and DNA methylation of 100 cells are used to produce a reference database and 1000 members are assayed for each characteristic i.e. the expression of 1000 genes when comparing the next cell unknown cell to the database at least 80 85 90 95 97 99 or 100 of the members are assayed for the unknown cell. This is particularly important if the dataset for the unknown cell will be used to update the reference database. Thus the global profiling of an unknown should match at least 80 85 90 95 97 99 or 100 to the global profiling of the reference database the unknown is being compared to or updating.

It should be noted that the concept of examining all expression of a cell is contrary to the accepted way of examining a cell. The standard way of achieving comparison is to look at a subset of markers for example expressed genes. This subset however is a form of a biological definition not the computed definition of a cell disclosed herein.

A computed definition takes datasets and lets an algorithm group the datasets into computed clusters. A computed cluster is a subset of a datasets that meet similarity requirements.

After during or before clustering a dataset can be produced which includes biological definitions labels and characteristics of the cell or cells. This type of information can be for example impressions such as morphological observations that led a researcher to consider that the cell is a stem cell.

A test dataset is a dataset that is produced from a cell for which a computed definition is desired. It is produced from characteristic data for an unknown cell line tissue or primary cell. Unknown in this context means that a computed definition is desired. Typically the test dataset will be comprised of a global profile as discussed herein as it relates to the global profile of the reference database. The test dataset can be merged with the reference database forming an updated reference database. In certain embodiments this can be as simple as adding the data to an existing spreadsheet.

At some point after a reference database is received the methods can include performing unsupervised classification. This means that a new sorting of the data is performed with no preconceptions about the results of the sorting. The sorting is typically performed multiple times at least 5 10 20 50 100 200 300 500 for example. The sorting results are analyzed for a result that is stable meaning that the result of the sorting is providing the same result or a similar result at least 80 85 90 95 97 99 or 100 of the previous result . The re sorting of the data can be performed completely de novo or it can start with certain assumptions.

The methods include performing automatic model selection meaning that a model selection system can be obtained from the unsupervised clustering. For example a consensus cluster method can be used. This consensus clustering method sorts samples into many groups and tests each grouping for stability. It does the same classification over and over again but starts from another point. If the groupings or clusterings are stable the method will always arrive at the same or nearly the same members in each group. There are multiple algorithms for testing the stability of groups the essential part is that the method provides multiple choices of models.

Typically it is desirable to determine how many groups or clusters are in the data under analysis and the goal is to find the optimal solution for a given dataset. In certain embodiments the grouping that is being sought is the one that best reveals the underlying biological mechanisms that cause samples to be grouped together. In certain embodiments one introduces perturbations into the dataset and clusters the data again. The algorithm in certain embodiments may start at a different point. One may do this over and over including at least 5 10 30 50 100 300 or 500 or more times.

Typically the methods also include selecting a best fitting classification model wherein the best fitting classification model can have the samples identical to the matrix samples the samples are similar but not identical to the matrix samples or the samples are different from all matrix samples. A definition of best fitting classification model is a model among all models that the algorithm identifies is the most stable to random perturbations by stable is meant that the computation comes to the same or very similar conclusion at least 10 times.

Disclosed are methods of assaying a cell comprising receiving a reference database wherein the reference database comprises cell datasets produced from characteristic data for at least two known cell lines tissues or primary cells wherein the data was obtained by global profiling wherein the data was associated with one or more labeled associated biological classes of the cells receiving a test dataset wherein the test dataset comprises data produced for an unknown cell line tissue or primary cell wherein the test dataset was obtained by a similar global profiling as for the reference database merging the test dataset into the database producing an updated reference database performing unsupervised classification of the updated reference database producing a computed label classification of the cells in the test dataset and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are methods further comprising the step of performing automatic model selection producing a best fitting classification model wherein the best fitting classification model contains one or more clusters of the cells through reference to the clustering of the cell datasets further comprising identifying which cluster or clusters the unknown cell is grouped in further comprising outputting a computed definition of the unknown cell wherein the computed definition is referenced to the cluster the unknown cell resides in wherein the best fitting classification model can cluster the individual datasets such that each dataset within a cluster is indistinguishable from each other dataset within the cluster wherein the best fitting classification model can cluster the individual datasets such that each dataset within a cluster is similar to each other individual dataset in the cluster wherein the best fitting classification model can cluster the individual datasets such that each dataset within a cluster is different from each other individual dataset and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are methods further comprising identifying computationally derived class labels only based on biological characteristics further comprising identifying differences in at least one dataset for at least one label between at least two samples in at least two clusters further comprising filtering within a cluster for samples within having a similar label profile such as common regulatory biochemical or metabolic activity further comprising defining differentially regulated networks further comprising using the networks to define a class membership manipulate class membership or define biological function of an unknown cell and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Disclosed are methods of characterizing cells as stem cells comprising isolating cells and extracting RNA analyzing the cellular RNA isolating cells and extracting DNA analyzing the DNA isolating cells and extracting cellular proteins analyzing the cellular Proteins grouping the cells with an unsupervised machine learning approach to cluster RNA DNA and or Protein profiles classifying the cells based on computationally derived protein protein networks and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are methods wherein the stem cells are embryonic stem cells wherein the stem cells are induced pluripotent stem cells wherein the stem cells are somatic multipotent cells such as neural stem cells mesenchymal stem cells or cardiac stem cells wherein the analysis of cellular RNA consists of microarray analysis wherein the unsupervised machine learning approach comprises a bootstrapping sparse non negative matrix factorization wherein the transcriptional profile is a global gene expression profile called a stem cell matrix wherein the protein protein network is the PluriNet and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Disclosed are methods of characterizing cells comprising global profiling of known and unknown samples collecting reference data from known samples into a matrix database merging the unknown sample data with the matrix database grouping the cells with a machine learning algorithm determining the identity of the unknown sample based on its similarity to the known sample matrix and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are methods wherein the sample is a cell line primary cell or tissue wherein the global profile is a transcriptional profile wherein the matrix consists of known class labels wherein the machine learning algorithm is an unsupervised classification wherein the unsupervised machine learning algorithm comprises a bootstrapping sparse non negative matrix factorization wherein the machine learning algorithm is a supervised classification wherein the method is a computer implemented method further comprising the step of outputting results from the unsupervised classification and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Disclosed are methods of analyzing a cell comprising receiving an updated reference database performing unsupervised classification on the database and outputting results from the unsupervised classification wherein the method is a computer implemented method wherein receiving the updated reference database comprises receiving the updated reference database from a storage medium wherein receiving the updated reference database comprises receiving the record from a computer system wherein receiving the updated reference database comprises receiving the record from an array analysis system wherein receiving the updated reference database comprises receiving the updated reference database via a computer network and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Disclosed are one or more computer readable media storing program code that upon execution by one or more computer systems causes the computer systems to perform any of the methods disclosed herein and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are computer program products comprising a computer usable memory adapted to be executed to implement any of the methods disclosed herein and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Disclosed are computer programs and products comprising a logic processing module a configuration file processing module a data organization module and a data display organization module that are embodied upon a computer readable medium and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are computer program products comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement a method for generating the unsupervised classification of claim said method further comprising providing a system wherein the system comprises distinct software modules and wherein the distinct software modules comprise a logic processing module a configuration file processing module a data organization module and a data display organization module and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Disclosed are methods further comprising a computerized system configured for performing the method and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are methods further comprising the outputting of the results from the unsupervised classification and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are computer readable media having stored thereon instructions that when executed on a programmed processor perform any of the methods disclosed herein and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Disclosed are unsupervised classification systems the systems comprising a data store capable of storing cell datasets a system processor comprising one or more processing elements the one or more processing elements programmed or adapted to receive cell datasets store the cell datasets in the data store as a reference database update the reference database with a dataset from an unknown cell perform unsupervised classification on the updated reference database and output a computed label classification of the updated reference database based upon the comparison of the cell datasets within the updated reference database and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

Also disclosed are systems wherein the system receives the cell datasets from a computer readable media wherein the system receives the cell datasets via a computer network further comprising a cell characteristic analysis system and or any limitation or characteristic disclosed herein alone or in combination.

In some embodiments instructions stored on one or more computer readable media that when executed by a system processor cause the system processor to perform the methods described above and in greater detail below. Further some embodiments may include systems implementing such methods in hardware and or software. A typical system may include a system processor comprising one or more processing elements in communication with a system data store SDS comprising one or more storage elements. The system processor may be programmed and or adapted to perform the functionality described herein. The system may include one or more input devices for receiving input from users and or software applications. The system may include one or more output devices for presenting output to users and or software applications. In some embodiments the output devices may include a monitor capable of displaying to a user graphical representation of the described analytic functionality.

The described functionality may be supported using a computer including a suitable system processor including one or more processing elements such as a CELERON PENTIUM XEON CORE 2 DUO or CORE 2 QUAD class microprocessor Intel Corp. Santa Clara Calif. or SEMPRON PHENOM OPTERON ATHLON X2 or ATHLON 64 X2 AMD Corp. Sunnyvale Calif. although other general purpose processors could be used. In some embodiments the functionality as further described below may be distributed across multiple processing elements. The term processing element may refer to 1 a process running on a particular piece or across particular pieces of hardware 2 a particular piece of hardware or either 1 or 2 as the context allows. Some implementations can include one or more limited special purpose processors such as a digital signal processor DSP application specific integrated circuits ASIC or a field programmable gate arrays FPGA . Further some implementations can use combinations of general purpose and special purpose processors.

The environment further includes a SDS that could include a variety of primary and secondary storage elements. In one preferred implementation the SDS would include registers and RAM as part of the primary storage. The primary storage may in some implementations include other forms of memory such as cache memory non volatile memory e.g. FLASH ROM EPROM etc. etc. The SDS may also include secondary storage including single multiple and or varied servers and storage elements. For example the SDS may use internal storage devices connected to the system processor. In implementations where a single processing element supports all of the functionality a local hard disk drive may serve as the secondary storage of the SDS and a disk operating system executing on such a single processing element may act as a data server receiving and servicing data requests.

It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the different information used in the systems and methods for respiratory analysis as disclosed herein may be logically or physically segregated within a single device serving as secondary storage for the SDS multiple related data stores accessible through a unified management system which together serve as the SDS or multiple independent data stores individually accessible through disparate management systems which may in some implementations be collectively viewed as the SDS. The various storage elements that comprise the physical architecture of the SDS may be centrally located or distributed across a variety of diverse locations.

In addition or instead the functionality and approaches discussed above or portions thereof can be embodied in instructions executable by a computer where such instructions are stored in and or on one or more computer readable storage media. Such media can include primary storage and or secondary storage integrated with and or within the computer such as RAM and or a magnetic disk and or separable from the computer such as on a solid state device or removable magnetic or optical disk. The media can use any technology as would be known to those skilled in the art including without limitation ROM RAM magnetic optical paper and or solid state media technology.

Disclosed herein are machines apparati and systems which are designed to perform the various methods disclosed herein. It is understood that these can be multipurpose machines having modules and or components dedicated to the performance of the disclosed methods. For example a computer can be modified as described herein so that it contains a module and or component which for example a produces an updated reference database which identifies one or more clusters identifies one or more cell computed definition and or performs an unsupervised classification such as an unsupervised classification alone or in any combination.

Thus the methods and systems herein can have the data in any form uploaded by a person operating a device capable of performing the methods disclosed herein. The methods can also be associated with the computer as described herein either incorporated into these systems or being on device which is connected to them.

Cultured cell populations are traditionally classified as having the qualities of stem cells by their expression of immunocytochemical or PCR markers Carpenter et al. Cloning Stem Cells 5 79 88 . This approach can often be misleading if these markers are used to categorize novel stem cell preparations or predict inherent multipotent or pluripotent features. To develop a more robust classification system a framework for identifying putative novel stem cell preparations by their whole genome messenger RNA expression phenotypes was created . The core reference data set stem cell matrix includes cultures of human cells that have been reported to have either stem cell or progenitor qualities including human embryonic stem cells mesenchymal stem cells and neural stem cells. To provide the context in which to place the stem cells non stem cell samples such as fibroblasts and differentiated embryonic stem cell derivatives were included. To avoid biasing the classification methods terminology that carried as little preconception about their identity as possible was used. The nomenclature source code has two components the first is the tissue or cultured cell line of origin. The second term captures a description of the culture itself. Tables 1 8 summarize the descriptions of the core samples and their assigned source codes.

The input samples were categorized according to the descriptive name contributor s nomenclature of the cell type based on classical criteria origin culture methods and markers . The Source Code is a labeling structure for the nomenclature Term 1 indicates the source tissue or cell type ePSC embryonic stem cell tPSC teratocarcinoma cell lines iPSC induced pluripotent stem cell B brain BM bone marrow CT connective tissue . Term 2 is a descriptor of the differentiated state or lineage of the cells. UN undifferentiated NLin neural lineage XE extraembryonic endodermal lineage AS astrocyte MLin mesenchymal lineage Fib fibroblastic cell . The percentage is the fraction of the total samples represented by that cell type and the histogram shows the number of microarrays samples of each input cell type.

To create a nomenclature Source Code that makes as few assumptions as possible about the identity of the cells before they were analyzed a simple system that designates the source of the sample was used ESC line embryonic pluripotent stem cell ePSC teratocarcinoma or germ cell tumor line tumor derived pluripotent stem cell tPSC induced pluripotent stem cell lien iPSC brain B bone marrow BM connective tissue CT and the presumed derived phenotype of the cells undifferentiated UN for ESC neural lineage NLin extraembryonic endoderm lineage XE astrocytes A fibroblasts Fib . For a detailed overview see Tables 3 8.

To sort the cell types an unsupervised machine learning approach to cluster transcriptional profiles of the cell preparations into stable distinct groups was used. Sparse non negative matrix factorization sNMF was adjusted for this task by implementing a bootstrapping algorithm to find the most stable groupings or clusters Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 4169 2004 Gao et al. Bioinformatics 21 3970 3975 2005 . The stability of the clustering Monti et al. Mach Learn 52 91 118 2003 indicated that the data set most likely contained about 12 different types of samples . The composition of the stable clusters revealed both predictable and unpredicted groupings of a priori designations and . The 20 samples identified as undifferentiated human pluripotent stem cell PSC preparations were grouped together in one dominant cluster cluster 1 and one secondary cluster cluster 5 . Sixty two of the samples were brain derived cells that were described as neural stem or progenitor cells based on their source culture methods and classical markers. Most of the designated neural stem cells were distributed among multiple clusters indicating a great deal of diversity in neural stem cell preparations. But one group of the brain derived lines those derived from surgical specimens from living patients HANSE cells see below remained together throughout the iterative clusterings cluster 6 see also . The HANSE cell group consisted of transcriptional profiles that were derived from neurosurgical specimens following published protocols for multipotent neural progenitor derivation and propagation Palmer et al. Nature 411 42 43 2001 Schwartz et al. J Neurosci Res 74 838 851 2003 . These cells expressed markers that are commonly used to identify neural stem cells Kornblum et al. Nature Rev Neurosci 2 843 846 2001 see but the clustering clearly separated them from the other samples that had been derived from post mortem brains of prematurely born infants SC23 and SC30 see Palmer et al. Nature 411 42 43 2001 Schwartz et al. J Neurosci Res 74 838 851 2003 .

Sixty six samples comprising new cultures derived from PSC lines that were already in the matrix preparations that were not yet included but their presumptive cell type was already represented or new cell types were added to the data set. Two new types of cells were chosen a differentiated cell type umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVECs and a recently developed new source of pluripotent cells called induced pluripotent stem cells Takahashi et al. Cell 126 663 676 2006 Takahaski et al. Cell 131 861 872 2007 Yu et al. Science 318 1917 1920 2007 Park et al. Nature 451 141 146 2008 iPSCs Table 9 . iPSCs have been generated from somatic cells including adult fibroblasts by genetic manipulation of certain transcription factors Takahaski et al. Cell 126 663 676 2006 Yu et al. Science 318 1917 1920 2007 Park et al. Nature 451 141 146 2008 Okita et al. Nature 448 313 317 2007 . Clustering results including the test data set Table 10 were recomputed. All of the HUVEC samples clustered together and formed a distinct group. Most of the additional PSC lines human embryonic stem cells embryonic PSCs ePSCs and iPSCs from several different laboratories were placed into a context that contained solely PSC lines. Three additional germ cell tumor lines clustered together with the tumor derived pluripotent stem cell tPSC line 2102Ep and samples of three human embryonic stem ES cell lines BG01 v Zeng et al. Restor Neurol Neurosci 22 421 428 2004 Hues7 Cowan et al. NEJM 350 1353 1356 2004 and Hues13 Cowan et al. NEJM 350 1353 1356 2004 . BG01 v is an established aneuploid variant line and the two Hues lines are aneuploid variants of the originally euploid lines not shown .

Sixty six samples not included in the 153 sample core dataset see Table 1 were used to validate the utility of this approach in classifying new cell types. A Source Code scheme similar to that used for the main dataset was used. The test dataset contains several undifferentiated ePSC lines WA01 WA09 HSF6 Hues9 Hues20 Hues21 Hues22 Cyt25 Cyt203 BG01v BG02 BG03 HES2 HES3 HES4 J3 J6 . The WA09 BG02 and BG03 samples were new examples of the cell line that was included in the core dataset and the other lines were not represented by samples in the core dataset. Also included were 7 samples from five different germ tumor cell lines which had been previously reported to have pluripotent features tPSC Ntera2 2102Ep GCT C4 GCT 27X GCT 72 . Also included were six preparations of human umbilical vein endothelial cells HUVEC from three individuals and three samples from three induced pluripotent stem cell lines BJ1 iPS12 MSC iPS1 hFib2 iPS5 in order to test how two novel supposedly not yet represented cell types performs within the contextual environment provided by the core dataset and bootstrap sparse NMF. For references regarding the specific cell lines please see Tables 1 8.

A combination of analysis tools was used to explore the basis of the unsupervised classification of the samples in the core data set. Gene Set Analysis GSA Efron et al. Ann Appl Stat 1 107 129 2007 is a means to identify the underlying themes in transcriptional data in terms of their biological relevance.

GSA uses lists of genes Efron et al. Ann Appl Stat 1 107 129 2007 that are related in some way the common criterion is that the relationships among the genes in the lists are supported by empirical evidence Efron et al. Ann Appl Stat 1 107 129 2007 . GSA highlighted numerous significant differences among the computationally defined categories. and http www.stemcellmatrix.org .

Although GSA is valuable for discovering specific differences among sample groups it is limited to curated gene lists and cannot be used to discover new regulatory networks. The MATISSE algorithm Ulitsky et al. BMC Syst Biol 1 8 2007 http acgt.cs.tau.ac.il matisse takes predefined protein protein interactions for example from yeast two hybrid screens and seeks connected subnetworks that manifest high similarity in sample subsets. The modified version used in this analysis is capable of extracting subnetworks that are co expressed in many samples but also significantly upregulated or downregulated in a specific sample cluster.

Because the PSC preparations were consistently clustered together MATISSE was used to look for distinctive molecular networks that might be associated with the unique PSC qualities of pluripotency and self renewal. A Nanog associated regulatory network has been outlined in mouse embryonic PSCs Wang et al. Nature 444 364 368 2006 and the elements of this network in human PSCs were identified using an unbiased algorithm. The algorithm predicts that human PSCs possess a similar NANOG linked network elements labeled in red . However the human NANOG network seems to be integrated as a small component of a much larger protein protein interaction network that is upregulated in human PSCs . Notably this PSC specific network termed pluripotency associated network PluriNet contains key regulators that are involved in the control of cell cycle DNA replication DNA repair DNA methylation SUMOylation RNA processing histone modification and nucleosome positioning see also http www.openstemcellwiki.org . Many of the genes in the PluriNet have been linked to embryogenesis tumorigenesis and ageing and . Pluripotency is closely linked to PluriNet expression by analyzing published gene expression data sets from human oocytes various types of PSCs and murine embryos see Table 10 for a summary of findings in various model systems . Analysis of a microarray data set Wange et al. Dev Cell 6 133 144 2004 that spans development from murine oocytes to the late blastocyst stage revealed that the PluriNet expression is dynamic and upregulated during early mammalian embryogenesis Table 10 and Chambers et al. Nature 450 1230 1234 2007 . Also preliminary analyses indicate that the PluriNet is strongly upregulated in mouse PSCs mouse iPSCs and mouse epiblast derived stem cells Tesar et al. Nature 448 196 199 2007 when compared to somatic cells. Therefore the PluriNet can be useful as a biologically inspired gauge for classifying both murine and human PSC phenotypes Table 10 and .

Oocytes are derived from germ cell precursors and are thought to be the progeny of pluripotent precursors that are set aside during development before somatic tissue differentiation. Primordial germ cells undergo mitotic proliferation followed by meiosis. By the time the oocyte reaches the MII stage it represents a unique cell type which has the potential to reprogram the sperm nucleus and to induce totipotency in the diploid zygote. This ability appears to be conserved between both ePSC and oocytes since both cell types share the capacity to reprogram a somatic nuclei and confer pluripotent like features in mammals Tada et al. Curr Biol 11 1553 8 2001 Byrne et al. Curr Biol 13 1206 13 2003 Cowan et al. Science 309 1369 73 2005 .

It has been demonstrated by others that murine ePSC can be differentiated into primordial germ cells which then can give rise to oocyte like and sperm like cells Hubner et al. Science 300 1251 6 2003 Kehler et al. Semin Reprod Med 23 222 33 2005 West et al. Nat Protocol 1 2026 36 2006 Geijsen et al. Nature 427 148 54 2004 .

It has been proposed that a common set of genes in oocytes and ePSC can be responsible for reprogramming somatic nuclei pluripotency and germ line transmission Kocabas et al. PNAS 103 14027 32 2006 . Interestingly PluriNet is highly enriched for genes that have been functionally linked to the cell cycle in various experimental systems and species ranging from yeasts to humans. Surprisingly MII oocytes which are by their very nature and identity in Meiosis II and are not progressing through the cell cycle do express almost all genes from the network that was defined as PluriNet.

Notably is the absence of NANOG yellow marked node in Panel B in human oocytes as assessed by microarray hybridization. This is in line with studies in other mammals where NANOG appears to stabilize self renewal and pluripotency but is only essential to germ cell development Chambers et al. Nature 450 1230 4 2007 . The presence of this transcription factor in PluriNet but absence in cells poised to become pluripotent and germ line competent such as oocytes cells from the early cleavage stages of embryogenesis or induced pluripotent cells up to 7 days after transfection with Oct4 Sox2 KIf4 and c myc Mitsue et al. Cell 113 631 42 2003 Hatano et al. Mech Dev 122 67 79 2005 Wernig et al. Nature 2007 supports the idea that PluriNet is a comprehensive molecular map of pluripotency that also contains key factors that are dispensable under certain conditions and at certain points in time.

An unbiased global molecular profiling approach combined with a transcriptional phenotype collection using suitable machine learning algorithms can be used to understand and codify the phenotypes of stem cells Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 4169 2004 Gao et al. Bioinformatics 21 3970 3975 2005 Golub et al. Science 286 531 537 1999 . The data set and PluriNet have already proved useful for categorizing cell types using unbiased criteria. As more stem cell populations become available cultured by new methods isolated from new sources or induced by new methods the PluriNet and the stem cell matrix can be used as a reference system for phenotyping the cells and comparing them with existing cell lines.

Two recent studies used RNAi for an unsupervised genome wide screen for genes essential for progression through specific cell cycle phases. These landmark studies are the first genome wide mechanistic dissections of the mammalian cell cycle. Other studies focusing on similar questions by arrest release paradigms and subsequent microarray analysis have been disputed because of intrinsic experimental problems Cooper et al. J Theor Biol 249 574 81 2007 Cooper Trends Biotechnol 22 274 6 2004 .

RNAi was used to knock down in vitro about 25 000 genes and 20 000 genes respectively in human cell lines. The morphological patterns of the cells were then tested for evidence of cell cycle phase specific arrest phenotypes Mukherji et al. PNAS 103 14819 24 2006 Kittler et al. Nat Cell Biol 9 1401 12 2007 .

The cell cycle related genes identified in these studies were mapped to Illumina microarray probes. When analyzing the overlap of the PluriNet genes with all the genes identified as cell cycle related in the knock down screens a small but significant overlap was identified 13 probes were common to PluriNet and the two other studies PluriNet and Kittler et al. 2007 56 probes PluriNet and Mukherji et al. 2006 36 probes .

Interestingly only a few genes represented by 112 probes on Illumina arrays were in common between the two cell cycle studies. A consistent up or down regulation of these independently generated groups of genes in a dataset that consists of an undifferentiated embryonic PSC ePSC UN line and of a cell type that has been used for both of the RNAi screens for cell cycle regulators was checked.

Four cell cycle specific gene sets G1 S common G2 common G2 M common M G1 common 480 genes altogether were included from a recent paper by Bar Joseph and colleagues. In this study the authors had analyzed genome wide cyclic gene expression patterns from about 20 000 candidates in karyotypically normal cells using microarrays and computationally deconvoluted the hybridization signals to single cell expression profiles Bar Joseph et al. PNAS 105 955 60 2008 .

When looking for overlap between PluriNet and the three studies a significant but not dominating overlap was found 56 genes of the 299 genes from PluriNet are also members of the 480 genes identified by Bar Joseph Bar Joseph et al. PNAS 105 955 60 2008 . The overlap of two of the four gene sets with PluriNet is significant G1 S common 23 genes p value 1.30E 14 and G2 M common 29 genes p value 9.15E 17 .

All these independently and experimentally gathered gene sets collectively represent more than 2000 genes that have been implicated in cell cycle progression that can be analyzed in light of the topological and expression patterns of PluriNet.

Six biological replicates of ePSC UN samples line WA09 H9 and HeLa cultures were profiled using Illumina microarrays.

Using Gene Set Enrichment Analysis GSEA Subramanian et al. PNAS 102 15545 50 2005 it was found that as expected PluriNet is up regulated in ePSC relatively to HeLa cells p value FDR FWER all 

The following gene groups from Mukherji 2006 were up regulated in ePSC UN G1 Phase S Phase. These findings were supported by the simultaneous up regulation of the corresponding gene sets as defined by Kittler et al in ePSC UN G0 1 arrest S arrest. These gene sets from Bar Joseph were upregulated in ePSC UN G2 common G1 S common.

Interestingly gene groups from Kittler et al. which one would expect to be equivalent to the G2 M phase related ones as defined by Mukherji et al. and Bar Joseph et al. were up regulated in HeLa cells and not in ePSC UN G2 arrest Cell Division defect.

While some discordance was found between the expression patterns of the phase specific gene sets from both RNAi studies and the microarray study a simultaneous up regulation in ePSC UN of genes that were found to be essential for G1 S phase progression was found in all three papers See Tables 11 and 12 .

This is also consistent with the observation that about 60 70 of all PSCs in a culture dish appear to go through S phase as contrasted by only about 20 of HeLa cells Fluckiger et al. Stem Cells 24 547 56 2006 Becker et al. J Cell Physiol 210 517 26 2007 Becker et al. J Cell Physiol 209 883 93 2006 .

Notably ePSC UN lines have been reported to have culture doubling times longer than 32 hours Gearhart NEJM 350 1275 6 2004 H9 WA09 43 hrs 11 hrs Ware et al. Stem Cells 24 2677 84 2006 and HeLa cells cultures do double every 23 hours Jacobson et al. Tissue Cell 14 69 83 1982 . This suggests that higher replication times are not responsible for the enrichment of cell cycle related genes in PluriNet.

These observations indicate that there is significant but not dominating overlap between PluriNet and certain gene sets that represent cell cycle phases. There is a high up regulation of PluriNet in ePSC UN and to a lesser degree and significance up regulation of specific cell cycle phases especially the ones relating to G1 S phase progression.

These results could have two interpretations relating to the relationship between PluriNet and the essential cell cycle transcriptome 1 PluriNet and the cell cycle transcriptome are parts of the same molecular program and 2 PluriNet and the cell cycle transcriptome represent two separate biological modules in PSCs with many interactions between them.

In analyzing the top scoring gene sets resulting from GSEA it was determined whether their GSEA enrichment signal derives from a shared subset of genes. Shared subsets could determine whether one should interpret the sets as representatives of independent processes or if in fact they result from the same common mechanism Efron et al. The Annals of Applied Stats 1 107 129 2007 . The leading edge subset can be interpreted as the core of a gene set that accounts for the GSEA enrichment signal Subramanian et al. PNAS 102 15545 50 2005 .

When using the set to set leading edge analysis tool in GSEA essentially no overlap was found between the signals that were responsible for the statistical enrichment scores of each PluriNet and the cell cycle gene set in GSEA FIG. A Subramanian et al. PNAS 102 15545 50 2005 . Only a small signal overlap score of 0.045 maximum possible score 1 between PluriNet and the G1 S common phase gene set from Bar Joseph 2008 can be detected . There is no signal overlap at all among all other gene sets and PluriNet.

This supports the interpretation that PluriNet is a transcriptional module which is up regulated independently from cell cycle phase specific modules in ePSC. Also if PluriNet which includes PSC specific genes like NANOG POU5F1 and TDGF1 etc. is up regulated in PSCs but not in somatic or cancer cell lines which undergo cell division it can be non essential to cell division in most non pluripotent cell types.

PluriNet or at least a major part of it can function as a distinct module integrated in a larger context that also contains cell cycle specific modules.

These considerations lead to another testable hypothesis PluriNet was discovered not only because of its expression pattern but also by taking advantage of topological information encoded in the human protein protein interactome. Thus one should be able to use topological measures to test for possible modularity or dispersion of the essential phase specific cell cycle modules within PluriNet.

Therefore summary statistics defining the relative position of each cell cycle gene group within PluriNet were looked at. Average distance of each overlapping PluriNet cell cycle gene set was computed Table 13 .

In both cases the shared genes are topologically closer than expected. This suggests that the overlapping genes with PluriNet can represent sub modules in a topological context thus possibly representing interfaces between the general cell cycle machinery and a regulatory machinery for pluripotency as codified in the study by PluriNet.

Finally expression trends of PluriNet and the 16 cell cycle modules in a second model system for pluripotency were uncovered. The murine pre implantation development dataset as described and analyzed in were elected. First corresponding probes for homologues genes on the MG U74Av2 arrays to the cell cycle related gene sets as defined by Bar Joseph et al. Kittler et al. and Mukherjii et al. were identified. For this BioMart MartView was used http www.ensembl.org biomart martview . For each of the five developmental sample groups as defined in a GSEA enrichment score of each gene set was computed as compared to all other remaining samples rest . The normalized enrichment scores were then plotted NES Table 14 as a heat map for trend discovery .

PluriNet is being up regulated during murine preimplantation development with peak values in multi cell stages and blastocysts. Importantly one has to keep in mind that this is a comparison of all gene sets during development relative to each other. Still almost all genes contained in PluriNet are significantly expressed in all stages of preimplantation development for more details see .

PluriNet as a gene set has relatively low expression in GV oocytes MII oocytes zygotes and the two cell stage but becomes more and more up regulated in 4 16 cell stages and blastocysts.

This pattern co varies with gene sets from Kittler et al. that are associated in human cells with G0 1 and S phase progression. These two specific phases were also up regulated in human PSCs when compared with HeLa cells but not to a highly significant degree see Table 1 . This pattern is not mirrored by the other G0 GUS phase specific gene sets as defined by Bar Joseph and Mukherji which appear to peak earlier in development. Of note is the co upregulation of many G2M phase related gene sets in GV oocytes.

As the last step the overlap between leading edge subsets from PluriNet and the other gene sets in this developmental dataset were analyzed. The obtained results mirror closely the ones in the human system the correlated signals for up regulation of PluriNet and all cell cycle specific gene sets as detected by GSEA overlap only minimally and thus cannot provide alone a straightforward explanation for the close relationship between cell cycle and PluriNet.

To summarize these findings PluriNet does have a significant but not dominating overlap with gene groups that were experimentally shown to be cell cycle phase specific. This overlap cannot explain alone significant correlations of differential expression signals as evaluated by gene set enrichment methodologies across different experimental systems. There are some correlations in expression dynamics between some specific gene sets and PluriNet especially the ones that are S phase related but this feature is neither consistently detected in different cell cycle phase models that had been independently used to define cell cycle specific gene sets nor can it be sufficiently explained by overlapping gene set expression patterns.

The results point toward the conjecture that the correlation between PluriNet and cell cycle in general or specific cell phases is not as straightforward as would be necessary to explain PluriNet s features solely by its intra gene set over representation of process specific genes that also have been implicated in cell cycle progression.

Most importantly this discussion also demonstrates the clear limitations of current methodologies for transposing analyses and results of systems and genome wide phenomena such as cell cycle and pluripotence in various experimental models. This calls for the future development of more powerful experimental and bio computational tools for the analysis of large or global effects in functional genomics data.

Each sample was prepared from approximately 1 10cultured cells which were mechanically harvested pelleted and snap frozen in liquid nitrogen. Biological replicates were produced for almost all samples. Details on the included cell lines and culture methods can be found in the Tables 3 8.

All brain tissue samples were obtained from patients who underwent surgery for intractable temporal lobe epilepsy at the Department of Neurosurgery University Medical Center Hamburg Eppendorf Germany n 6 4 males and 2 females mean age 33 . All procedures were performed with patient informed consent and in accordance with institutional human tissue handling guidelines. During the surgical resection procedure amygdalohippocampectomy three types of brain tissue were collected cortical tissue the sclerotic hippocampus and the amygdala. These regions were cultured separately and the resulting neural progenitor cultures were termed HANSE Human Adult Neural Progenitors for Scientific Experimentation with an additional code letter indicating anatomical origin C cortex H hippocampus and A amygdala . Modifications of reported protocols for establishing neural progenitor cultures from fetal and postmortem brain tissue were used Palmer et al. Nature 411 42 3 2001 Schwartz et al. J Neurosci Res 74 838 51 2003 Imitola et al. PNAS 101 18117 22 2004 . Briefly the samples were dissected and dissociated to a single cell suspension by enzymatic digestion using Collagenase Dispase Roche Mannheim Germany . The filtered cell suspensions were cultured in neurobasal medium Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. with B27 supplement 20 ul ml Invitrogen Glutamax 10 ug ml Invitrogen fibroblast growth factor 2 FGF 2 20 ng ml Peprotech Rocky Hill N.J. epidermal growth factor EGF 20 ng ml Peprotech platelet derived growth factor PDGF 20 ng ml Peprotech and heparin 32 IE ml Ratiopharm Ulm Germany . Growth factors and heparin were renewed twice weekly. HANSEs were cultured in uncoated 25 cmflasks and routinely passaged at confluency. Cells were dissociated either with HBSS based enzyme free cell dissociation buffer Invitrogen or Accutase Sigma Aldrich Hamburg Germany .

Total RNA from each HANSE culture at passage 3 was extracted with the RNeasy Mini Kit Qiagen Hilden Germany and DNAase treated with RNAase free DNAase I Qiagen . cDNA first strand synthesis was performed in a total reaction volume of 100 l containing 15 pg of total RNA 100 M dNTP mix Invitrogen Karlsruhe Germany 500 ng p dN random primer MWG Biotech Martinsried Germany and 1000 U Superscript II Reverse Transcriptase Invitrogen . 1 l of the first strand reaction mixture was subjected to a 20 l PCR using 10 mol of each primer MWG Biotech Martinsried Germany and 0.5 U Taq DNA polymerase Qiagen . Reaction conditions were as follows initial denaturing 95 C. 3 min denaturing 95 C. 30 s annealing 45 s at appropriate temperature elongation 72 C. 45 s for 35 cycles final elongation 72 C. 5 min.

Primer sequences length of fragment and annealing temperatures were MSH1 primer 5 GAGACTGACGCGCCCCAGCC 3 SEQ ID NO 1 and 5 CGCCTGGTCCATGAAAGTGACG 3 SEQ ID NO 2 size 213 bp annealing 65 C. BMI1 primer 5 GAGACCAGCAAGTATTGTCCTTTTG 3 SEQ ID NO 3 and 5 CATTGCTGCTGGGCATCGTAAG 3 SEQ ID NO 4 size 370 bp annealing 59 C. NESTIN primer 5 GGCAGCGTTGGAACAGAGGTTGGA 3 SEQ ID NO 5 and 5 CTCTAAACTGGAGTGGTCAGGGCT 3 SEQ ID NO 6 size 718 bp annealing 65 C. SOX2 primer 5 TACCTCTTCCTCCCACTCCA 3 SEQ ID NO 7 and 5 ACTCTCCTCTTTTGCACCCC 3 SEQ ID NO 8 size 269 bp annealing 59 C. GAPDH primer 5 GAGGCATTGCTGATGATCTTG 3 SEQ ID NO 9 and 5 AGCCACATCGCTCAGAACAC 3 SEQ ID NO 10 size 474 bp annealing 65 C. A template control PCR was performed using GAPDH primers and with double distilled water instead of first strand reaction mixture. PCR products were analyzed by agarose gel electrophoresis using DNA Molecular Marker VI as a size standard.

All RNA was purified using standard methods. Sample amplification labeling and hybridization on Illumina WG8 and WG6 Sentrix BeadChips were performed for all arrays in this study according to the manufacturer s instructions Illumina using an Illumina BeadStation Burnham Institute Microarray Core .

Raw data extraction was performed with BeadStudio v1.5 and probes with a detection score of less than 0.99 in all of the samples were discarded. The resulting probes were then quantile normalized to correct for between sample variation Barnes et al. Nucleic Acids 33 5914 5923 2005 . The sample data were quality controlled before normalization using the quality parameters provided by BeadStudio software. Before and after normalization the arrays were inspected with signal distribution box plots and by using the maCorrPlot package Ploner et al. Bioinformatics 6 80 2005 .

The data sets and the sparseness factor were adjusted for the unsupervised clustering task following previous reports Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 4169 2004 Gao et al. Bioinformatics 21 3970 3975 2005 . Parameters used for this study were SCM core data set 153 samples 0.01 SCM test data set 219 samples 0.1. The pre processed data sets used can be downloaded at http www.stemcellmatrix.info.

To screen for differentially expressed groups of genes between computationally defined sample clusters the Gene Set Analysis GSA methods were used Subramanian et al. PNAS 102 1545 15550 2005 Efron et al. Ann Appl Stat 1 107 129 2007 . GSA was chosen because it uses a stringent max mean algorithm to identify significantly differentially regulated gene sets. The cutoff P value was adjusted to accommodate a false discovery rate FDR of 10 . A translation file was built to use GSA with Illumina expression data. Gene lists from recent publications and public repositories MolSigDB2 Stanford repository were collected. These files can be downloaded from http www.stemcellmatrix.org. To screen for differentially expressed genes between computationally defined sample clusters the standard t test based methods implemented in the R Bioconductor package R Development Core Team www.bioconductor.org 2007 R Development Core Team R A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing help files 2007 . The cutoff P value was adjusted to accommodate a FDR of 5 .

General Methodology. Unsupervised machine learning techniques were used to A rediscover de novo the previously designated relationships between the cell lines and B discover new relationships based on transcriptional profiles and explore the transcriptional similarity of different in vitro cell cultures. The Consensus Clustering framework Monti et al. Machine Learning 52 91 118 2003 was used to cluster transcription profiles and to assess stability of the discovered results. As a clustering algorithm sparse non negative matrix factorization was used Gao et al. Bioinformatics 21 3970 5 2005 . For data perturbation 30 sub sampling runs were performed for each considered number of clusters k . In each run 80 of the data was subjected to ten random restarts. The modified R script can be downloaded at the accompanying website. Results for k12 are shown in in the form of a consensus matrix. Consensus matrices for k2 15 can be found on the accompanying website.

Cophenetic correlation coefficient. Deciding on a correct number of clusters k is a difficult problem. Visual inspection of the consensus matrices and of the corresponding summary statistics can be used to determine the optimal number of clusters Monti et al. Machine Learning 52 91 118 2003 . Brunet et al 2004 suggest the cophenetic correlation coefficient as valid summary statistics tool for this task Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 9 2004 . The cophenetic correlation coefficient Farris Systematic Zoology 18 279 285 1969 is the Pearson correlation coefficient between pairwise distances of a set of objects and their cophenetic distances which are derived from hierarchical clustering. The cophenetic distance of two objects is defined as the intergroup dissimilarity at which the two observations are first combined into a single cluster R Development Core Team www.bioconductor.org 2007 R Development Core Team R A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing help files 2007 .

A high cophenetic correlation coefficient conveys that the clustering dendrogram reflects the original distances well. This implies that segregating the data into k groups is well supported by the co occurrence data of the consensus clustering Monti et al. Machine Learning 2003 .

While the cophenetic correlation coefficient Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 9 2004 Sokal et al. Taxon 11 33 40 1962 suggests that clustering is of high quality for k 12 for the Stem Cell Matrix core dataset and k 15 for the Stem Cell Matrix core plus test dataset striking evidence for a single best k was not found see the respective cophenetic correlation plots over increasing k runs . This is consistent with the observation that biologically meaningful clusters can be tracked through several k values see .

Parameters for consensus clustering. The stability of the test dataset results were optimized within the consensus clustering framework by means of maximizing the cophenetic correlation coefficient. In the case of the test dataset optimization for stable k runs k 12 were a primary goal. This was achieved by filtering the datasets for fold change and by setting genes with hybridization signals in the range of the background signal 

In sparse NMF the matrix decomposition process is forced by a sparseness factor lambda to reconstruct the data matrix with fewer features in the W matrix than in the method proposed by Brunet and colleagues Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 9 2004 Gao et al. Bioinformatics 21 3970 5 2005 . It was proposed that this results in more stable clustering at the cost of a higher reconstruction error when the algorithm detects a biologically relevant optimal sample grouping. It has also been proposed by Gao and Church that this limited feature selection could lead to a machine learning based identification of biologically meaningful gene sets in the W matrix with biologically relevant co expression patterns learning the parts of an object Lee et al. Nature 401 788 791 1999 although this hypothesis awaits further validation Gao et al. Bioinformatics 21 3970 5 2005 . For bootstrapped sNMF it is first computed with 80 randomly selected samples from the sample matrix with ten clusterings and ten random restart runs the one with the smallest reconstruction error is retained. This procedure is repeated 30 times and these best 30 results are used for the computation of readouts from the Consensus Clustering framework. The bootstrapping modification is intended to increase the robustness of the reported results avoiding sampling biases and technical variations. When this algorithm is applied to the Stem Cell Matrix Core Dataset nine of the 12 clusters appear to be pure as judged by their Source Code annotation. Notably the average size of the clusters does appear to be more homogenous than they are with other algorithms. NMF appears to maximize the number of pure clusters by allowing the existence of few heterogeneous clusters best example cluster 5 .

Hierarchical Clustering HIER see HIER was one of the first methods successfully used for unsupervised class discovery in microarray data Golub et al. Science 286 531 7 1999 . Agglomerative hierarchical clustering is a method that involves recursive merging of items or groups of previously merged items . At each step the distances between items or groups of items are calculated and the closest pair of items is merged Golub et al. Science 286 531 7 1999 . In the present study HIER clustering results in relatively stable groupings. The cluster size appears to be either small 6 clusters with less than 6 samples or large 3 clusters with more than 16 samples . Clusters 2 3 5 7 8 and 9 are pure clusters consisting of only one Source Code category . Neural stem cells derived from hESC are clustered with undifferentiated hESCs cluster 14 . Although promising these results are sub optimal because HIER produces either heterogeneous large clusters or more homogenous small clusters thus providing a difficult starting point for possible generalizations based on statistical post hoc analysis or network discovery methods.

K Means Clustering K MEANS see K means groups items into specified numbers of clusters k s . Initially the centers of the clusters centroids are randomly selected from the items in the dataset. The distances between the items in the dataset and the centroids are then calculated and each item is assigned to the nearest centroid to come up with the initial set of clusters. The center of each of these clusters is then calculated as the mean of its members and the items are reassigned to the closest of these new centroids. These steps are repeated until the locations of the centroids remain stable between consecutive iterations.

k10 was selected because it represents the most stable model. Inspection of the group assignments reveals 6 pure clusters one of them with most of the pluripotent stem cell samples in it. Again there are 3 clusters of hESC derived neural cells among these pure clusters. Inspection of the co occurrence matrices and the cophenetic clustering coefficient reveals that the group assignment stability is well below that of the other algorithms.

Self Organizing Maps SOM see SOMs are constructed by choosing a geometry of nodes on a grid. The nodes are mapped into k dimensional space initially at random and then iteratively adjusted. Each iteration involves randomly selecting a data point and moving the nodes in the direction of this data point. The closest node is moved the most. The other nodes are moved by smaller distances depending on their location. Neighboring points in the initial topology tend to be mapped to nearby points in k dimensional space. The process continues for many iterations. SOMs eventually find an optimal set of centroids around which the data points appear to aggregate. At k14 the cophenetic coefficient for SOM reaches a maximal value of just below 0.98. From inspection of the co occurrence matrix it becomes obvious that there is one clear cut large cluster cluster 3 HANSE cells and that there are shifting and instable co occurrence patterns in between all remaining groups. SOM clustering results in seven pure sample groups cluster 1 2 3 4 5 6 and 8 and all other clusters mix Source Code sample designations. Of note pluripotent stem cells are presented in clusters 7 9 and 11 each time mixing with neural cells. In this dataset SOM clustering results appears to be rather unstable. When comparing the clustering results with similarly unstable results from the K MEANS analysis their biological interpretability also rather problematic. This is especially the case for clusters 4 7 9 10 11 and 14.

Non Negative Matrix Factorization NMF see In contrast to the other three algorithms described here which cluster items based on distance calculations NMF uses matrix factorization to detect relations between items. The dataset can be represented as a large matrix called the V matrix which contains N mRNAs and M cell lines Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 9 2004 . Over many iterations NMF computes two component matrices the W matrix an N k matrix and the H matrix a k M matrix which when multiplied together approximate the complete matrix for the dataset. Initial values in the W and H matrices are chosen randomly and each iteration attempts to minimize the distance between WH and V Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 9 2004 . Clustering of cell lines is read out from the H matrix in which each entry is indexed to a cluster number and a cell line and contains a value indicating how well the cell line fits in that cluster Brunet et al. PNAS 101 4164 9 2004 .

The basic NMF algorithm as originally proposed by Brunet and colleagues achieves fairly good results with the current data. For this comparison the k12 model was selected for a better comparison although the k13 model had a marginally 0.008 higher cophenetic correlation coefficient. Nine clusters were pure although one of these clusters consists of only hESC derived neural cell samples. Cluster 3 consists of cells with fibroblast like morphology and similar culture conditions Source codes ePSC XE B AS BM MLin and sometimes also CT Fib . This mirrors similar sample clusters that appear in every clustering algorithm tested so far cluster 4 and 11 with HIER cluster 6 with K MEANS cluster 12 with SOM and clusters 3 in sNMF and bootstrap sparse NMF bsNMF . Close inspection of the co occurrence matrix reveals that there are only few co occurrence shades in between co clustered samples in the NMF algorithm cluster 3 . This could mean that NMF prefers a limited number of solutions if the data perturbation is just re started with random seeds as implemented in the standard consensus clustering paradigm. When for example cluster 3 is compared to its identically composed bootstrap sparse NMF counterpart in the k17 NMF run D E it becomes obvious that a much more graded picture of co occurrence as surrogate measure for similarity or dissimilarity emerges. This is an important feature of the modification bootstrapped NMF has a lesser likelihood for getting locked in algorithmic optima which have no representation in the real world data structure.

Summary Overall the algorithms presented in this survey all give a similar impression on the general sample groupings in the core dataset PSC do frequently co cluster with other PSCs and with their in vitro derivatives such as neural stem cells derived from PSC PSC NLin . There is a tendency in all algorithms to group neural stem cells from fetal tissue together. Tissue derived neural lineage cells are frequently separated from PSC NLin cells and a group of neural progenitor cells that was derived from adult brain tissue.

Interestingly there appears to be a consistent tendency shared among all algorithms to cluster seemingly different cell types such as fibroblasts mesenchymal stem cells primitive extraembryonic endodermal cells and astrocytes into one group.

The quality of the clusterings varies considerably between the different methodologies in regard to stability of the results and the frequency of outliers sample groups with just one or two members and clusters that appear to be anomalous because they group seemingly very different cell types together in a non consistent manner over increasing k numbers . Bootstrapped sparse NMF was selected for the purpose of this study because it provided us with the best compromise between consistent stable results and pure sample groups which appear to reflect underlying biological patterns and signals reasonably well.

Notably the MATISSE algorithm for the downstream analysis was designed in a way that should be robust against at least some sample outliers from the unsupervised clustering step. This was achieved by integrating the information from topological relationships gene co expression pattern as well as the sample groupings with a tradeoff parameter adjusting the relative importance of differential expression between the sample groups in the modified MATISSE similarity score.

While the results from all the different algorithms appear to be relatively consistent at lower k numbers data not shown NMF appears to provide more robust results in with higher sample cluster numbers k 10 20 . This can be an important advantage in the task of classifying stem cells. To develop a reliable global classification of known and prospective stem cell classes it can be undesirable to limit the analysis to only a few similar transcriptional phenotypes as it is the case in cancer studies where usually a pre selection for a specific disease entity e.g. lymphomas or brain tumors is the first step before transcriptional phenotypes are being employed to sub categorize malignancies. The exact number of stem cell types is unknown nor is it known whether to expect stem cells from different sources to be similar or different. The value of unbiased analysis is that it does not assume this knowledge.

MATISSE Ulitsky et al. BMC Syst Biol 1 8 2007 http acgt.cs.tau.ac.il matisse was adjusted to detect differentially expressed connected subnetworks DECs corresponding to connected subnetworks in a physical interaction network that show a significant co expression pattern. The physical network used by MATISSE contains vertices corresponding to genes and edges corresponding to protein protein and protein DNA interactions. For the present analysis the human physical interaction network was used that was previously assembled Ulitsky et al. BMC Syst Biol 1 8 2007 and augmented it with additional interactions from recent publications Wang et al. Nature 444 364 368 2006 Ewing et al. Mol Syst Biol 3 89 2007 Mishra et al. Nucleic Acids Res 34 D411 D414 2006 . In total the network contained 34 212 interactions among 9 355 proteins.

Originally MATISSE used the Pearson correlation coefficient as a measure of similarity between the expression patterns of gene pairs. These similarity values serve as a starting point for the computation of pair wise weights using a probabilistic model. The Pearson correlation between a pair of genes captures a global similarity trend between their expression patterns. Groups of genes were extracted that are not only similar across the experimental conditions but also show significantly high or significantly low expression values in a specific subset of the samples identified using the sNMF clustering scheme. A hybrid similarity score that captures two features was devised 1 both genes show differential expression 2 the genes have similar expression patterns regardless of their differential expression.

The expression pattern of gene i is denoted by x x x . . . x . Assume there is interest in DECs upregulated in a condition subset A1 . . . m. To address goal 1 use an ideal expression profile p p p . . . p where p 1 if i A and p 1 otherwise. The signs are reversed if interest is in a DECS dowregulated A. ris the Pearson correlation coefficient between xand p. Intuitively ris close to 1 if the corresponding transcript is strongly upregulated in A compared to the other conditions and close to 1 if it is strongly downregulated in A. This measure has been suggested as an aparametric differential expression score Troyanskaya et al. Bioinformatics 18 1454 1461 2002 . Note that the Pearson correlation is invariant under normalization of the patterns to zero mean and standard deviation of 1. For every gene pair i j S i j r r 2 is computed. To address goal 2 the partial correlation coefficient between the gene patterns conditioned on the ideal profile is used. Formally 

To diminish the effect of the size difference between the clusters the number of conditions in clusters 1 2 3 6 9 10 and 12 were reduced by including fewer replicates. Overall 105 samples were used in the MATISSE analysis and can be downloaded at http www.stemcellmatrix.org. This MATISSE variant was executed iteratively each time setting A to contain all the samples of a single cluster or a cluster pair. The upper bound on module size was set to 300 and the rest of the parameters were as previously reported Ulitsky et al. BMC Syst Biol 1 8 2007 . The resulting networks were then filtered by removing the DECs that overlapped more than 50 with other higher scoring DECs. The full set of the DECs is available at http www.stemcellmatrix.org.

For visualization of the selected DECs Cytoscape 2.5 Cline et al. Nature Protocols 2 2366 2382 2007 and Cerebral 2.0 Barsky et al. Bioinformatics 23 1040 1042 2007 were used. Localization data from HRPD and the G0 Molecular function categories were also used Mishra et al. Nucleic Acids Res 34 D411 D414 2006 . NANOG POU5F1 OCT4 and SOX2 promoter binding information was used to code the ESC specific regulation of nodes Boyer et al. Cell 122 947 956 2005 . Permutmatrix was used for heat maps Caraux et al. Bioinformatics 21 1280 1281 2005 . Data for the analysis of human oocytes were accessed on the authors or the journals website Kocabas et al. PNAS 103 14027 14032 2006 . For analysis of iPSCs induced with LIN28 OCT4 NANOG and SOX2 the data set was obtained from the Thomson laboratory Yu et al. Science 318 1917 1920 2007 .

The 299 genes from DECS Up 1 5 A PluriNet were used with the PAM Efron et al. Ann Appl Stat 1 107 129 2007 software package. Class probabilities were re computed 10 000 times average scores are reported in The human genes were translated into their murine orthologues from PluriNet using the NCBI HomoloGene database for re analyzing murine expression profiles. The expression array data from murine fibroblasts induced pluripotent cells epiblast derived stem cells and murine embryonic stem cells were downloaded from NCBI GEO Wange et al. Nature 444 364 368 2006 Wang et al. Dev Cell 6 133 144 2004 Chambers et al. Nature 450 1230 1234 2007 Tesar et al. Nature 448 196 199 2007 .

Takahashi K. Okita K. Nakagawa M. Yamanaka S. Induction of pluripotent stem cells from fibroblast cultures. Nat Protoc 2 3081 9 2007 .

296. Ware C. B. Nelson A. M. Blau C. A. A comparison of NIH approved human ESC lines. Stem Cells 24 2677 84 2006 .

