---

title: System and method for facilitating remote downloading
abstract: A method for facilitating remote downloading, in accordance with particular embodiments, includes receiving, at a proxy server maintained by a wireless service provider, a remote download request. The remote download request is relayed to the proxy server via at least one component of a wireless service provider's network. The remote download request includes an address associated with at least one file hosted by a remote server. The method also includes downloading the at least one file from the remote server to the proxy server. Upon detecting a presence of the endpoint, the method includes transferring the at least one file from the proxy server to the endpoint via a femto base station associated with the endpoint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09344483&OS=09344483&RS=09344483
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 09344483
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20101013
---
The present invention relates generally to downloading and more particularly to methods and systems for facilitating remote downloading.

Mobile endpoints e.g. smartphones are generating downloading and storing an increasing amount of data. This growth in data consumption is outpacing advances in wireless technologies. Moreover it is not practical from a cost or performance perspective to provide the mobile endpoints with large amounts of on board storage.

One technique for reducing the local storage requirements of mobile endpoints is to move file downloads off the mobile endpoint and onto a user s home server e.g. a Samba Server . This technique often requires the user to first setup a server with a network file system NFS e.g. NFS Microsoft Server Message Block or Samba at home. Then in order to allow the user to remotely access the home server the user may have to enable remote access to the home server from networks outside of their home. Once configured the user is then able to save files to the home server over the NSF. In order to save files on the home server the mobile endpoint downloads a file that it then uploads to the home server over the NFS. While this may reduce the storage requirements of the mobile endpoint its implementation is inefficient because it requires the data to be moved over both a downlink and uplink in the wireless network. Moreover the mobile endpoint has to maintain a wireless connection to both download and upload the file. If the connection is dropped during either portion of the download process the operation fails.

One technique for reducing the load on the wireless network is based on a remote desktop platform. This technique often requires the user to setup and enable the remote desktop function at their home computer. Once enabled the user may remotely operate their computer from their mobile endpoint. While this allows the file to be downloaded using the user s home network connection trying to manage and interface with a home computer using a mobile endpoint can be unwieldy. For example the response time of the interactions on the remote desktop is slow because of the substantial amount of messages exchanged between the home computer and the mobile endpoint. As another example the small screen of a mobile endpoint makes it difficult to operate the higher resolution of the home computer.

The teachings of the present disclosure relate to methods and systems for facilitating remote downloading that include receiving at a proxy server maintained by a wireless service provider a remote download request. The remote download request is relayed to the proxy server via at least one component of a wireless service provider s network. The remote download request includes an address associated with at least one file hosted by a remote server. The methods also include downloading the at least one file from the remote server to the proxy server. Upon detecting a presence of the endpoint the methods include transferring the at least one file from the proxy server to the endpoint via a femto base station associated with the endpoint.

Technical advantages of particular embodiments include allowing a user to use his endpoint to request a WSP s proxy to download a file. Accordingly by not immediately downloading the file to the endpoint over the wireless service provider s wireless network the traffic load of a wireless service provider s wireless network is reduced. Additionally the user is not required to maintain a data connection as the file is downloaded.

Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

For simplicity and ease of discussion the remainder of this description may use a simplified nomenclature for the various entities servers and networks discussed herein. Home location may refer to a place at which a user has home network access to an external network such as the internet. A home location is not limited to only a user s residence it may include for example a user s office. Home network access may refer to any of a variety of techniques and or technologies used to access one or more external networks such as the internet from the user s home location. For example home network access may comprise a cable modem a DSL modem an xDSL modem etc. Home network may refer to a local area network LAN configured within a user s home location. The LAN may include both wired and wireless connections. The term internet is not intended to be limited to only the Internet but includes any type of network including public and private networks which an fBS may use to establish its backhaul connection to a wireless service provider s network. Internet service provider ISP may refer to an entity that provides a user with his home network access service. Wireless service may refer to any of a variety of techniques and technologies e.g. WiMAX or LTE used to provide endpoints with wireless connections. Wireless service provider WSP may refer to the entity that provides the wireless service. Wireless network may refer to any devices or components e.g. base stations used to provide the wireless service. Mobile wireless network may refer to the wireless network minus any user equipment that provides wireless service e.g. a femto base station . In some embodiments the mobile wireless network may be the publicly available portion of the wireless network. For example a femto base station at a user s home location may be part of the wireless network but may not be a part of the mobile wireless network. As another example a macro base station outside the user s home location may be part of both the wireless network and the mobile wireless network. While this nomenclature is used for simplicity it does not represent the entire scope of all possible embodiments. For example an ISP may also be the WSP. As another example the ISP may not be directly providing the user with internet access e.g. the ISP may provide a building with internet access the building owner may then provide the fBS user with internet access .

In particular embodiments a user may use their mobile endpoint e.g. endpoint to identify a file to download e.g. a movie . The file may then either be downloaded locally at mobile endpoint or remotely via proxy server maintained by the user s wireless service provider. To download the file remotely the user s endpoint may send a download request to proxy server via the WSP s network. Because the request is communicated through and received by components of the WSP s network the request and or endpoint may be trusted by proxy server without requiring separate authentication. Proxy server may then use a wired connection separate from the wireless connections provided by the WSP to download the file. The downloaded file may then be stored at proxy server until the user returns home and is connected to his fBS e.g. fBS . Once connected the user may download the file to his endpoint. In some embodiments once proxy server has downloaded the file it may transfer the file for example via fBS to a storage device at the user s home. The user may then transfer the file from the storage device to his endpoint.

The embodiment depicted in includes fBSs . fBSs may in essence be small base stations purchased or leased by the user from his WSP. Once installed the fBS provides a geographically small coverage area that may be used to enhance the signal coverage within the user s home. Depending on the scenario the user may share this coverage with other unknown users e.g. the fBS is a public fBS or he may limit it to known authorized users e.g. the fBS is a private fBS . In some embodiments fBSs may use the same wireless technology as the surrounding base stations . In particular embodiments fBSs may use the same licensed spectrum e.g. the spectrum licensed by the user s WSP as the WSP s other local MBSs and RSs .

Part of the installation process for the fBS may include providing it with internet access for its backhaul connection. In the scenario depicted in fBSs are connected to network access devices . Network access devices provide their respective users with home network access. The connection between each respective fBS and network access device may provide fBSs with their backhaul connection to the WSP s network also referred to as a wireless service network WSN network . This backhaul connection may be used among other things to transfer downloaded files from proxy server to a storage device e.g. storage device or

In the depicted embodiment proxy server is coupled to network WSN from which proxy server may connect to remote servers to download files requested by a user. The downloaded files may be stored locally at proxy server or at any other component e.g. a storage server accessible by proxy server that is able to store data. Proxy server may receive a user s instructions to download the file from for example a particular web server. The instructions may be relayed to proxy server via the WSP s network WSN . Because the instructions may be sent via the WSP s network WSN proxy server may rely on the WSP s authentication of the user and or instruction. Thus the endpoint or user may not have to send authentication or identification information to log into proxy server . In some embodiments the instructions may be relayed via the internet.

In particular embodiments the user of fBS may be the owner of fBS or a user authorized by the owner to use fBS . In particular embodiments those users authorized to use fBS may also be able take advantage of the remote downloading ability of proxy server . In some embodiments proxy server may have its own list of authorized users distinct from the list of authorized users associated with fBS .

Although the example communication system of includes six different networks networks the term network should be interpreted as generally defining any network or combination of networks capable of transmitting signals data and or messages including signals data or messages transmitted through WebPages e mail file transfers text chat voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging. Depending on the scope size and or configuration of the network any one of networks may be implemented as a LAN WAN MAN PSTN WiMAX network global distributed network such as the Internet Intranet Extranet or any other form of wireless or wired networking.

Networks may include any number and combination of wired links wireless connections nodes and or endpoints . For purposes of illustration and only by way of example network is a MAN that may be implemented at least in part via WiMAX LTE any 3G or 4G wireless technology or any other type of wireless service network is a PSTN network is a LAN network is a WAN such as the internet network is a WSN which may be operated by the WSP responsible for providing network with wireless service e.g. WiMAX and network is an internet service network ISN which may be operated by the ISP responsible for providing its users with home network access including internet access. Though not depicted in both WSN network and ISN network may include servers modems gateways and any other components that may be needed to provide their respective service.

While networks have been depicted as six separate networks depending on the scenario any two or more of the networks may be a single network. For example the WSP and the ISP may be the same business entity which may maintain the necessary components for both services on the same network thus merging ISN network and WSN network into a single network. Furthermore the interconnections between networks may vary from those depicted in . For example if a user uses a Digital Subscriber Line DSL connection for his internet access his network access device may connect to PSTN

Generally networks provide for the communication of packets cells frames or other portions of information generally referred to as packets herein between endpoints and or nodes described below . In particular embodiments networks and may be IP networks. IP networks transmit data by placing the data in packets and sending each packet individually to the selected destination along one or more communication paths. Network may for example be a PSTN that may include switching stations central offices mobile telephone switching offices pager switching offices remote terminals and other related telecommunications equipment that are located throughout the world. Network may be coupled to network through a gateway. Depending on the embodiment the gateway may be a part of network and or e.g. nodes and or may comprise a gateway . The gateway may allow PSTN to be able to communicate with non PSTN networks such as any one of networks or 

Any of networks or may be coupled to other IP networks including but not limited to the internet. Because IP networks share a common method of transmitting data signals may be transmitted between devices located on different but interconnected IP networks. In addition to being coupled to other IP networks any of networks or may also be coupled to non IP networks through the use of interfaces or components such as gateways.

Networks may be connected to each other and with other networks via a plurality of wired links wireless connections and nodes . Not only do wired links wireless connections and nodes connect various networks but they also interconnect endpoints with one another and with any other components coupled to or a part of any of networks . The interconnection of networks may enable endpoints to communicate data and control signaling between each other as well as allowing any intermediary components or devices to communicate data and control signals. Accordingly users of endpoints may be able to send and receive data and control signals between and among each network component coupled to one or more of networks .

In the depicted embodiment wireless connections may represent wireless links between two components using for example WiMAX. In other embodiments wireless connections may use other wireless technologies and or protocols such as LTE or LTE A. The extended range of a WiMAX MBS along with one or more RSs and fBSs may allow network to cover the larger geographic area associated with a MAN.

Nodes may include any combination of network components modems session border controllers gatekeepers ISN gateways WSN gateways security gateways operation administration maintenance and provisioning OAM P servers network access provider NAP servers base stations conference bridges routers hubs switches gateways endpoints or any other hardware software or embedded logic implementing any number of communication protocols that allow for the exchange of packets in communication system . For example node may comprise a gateway. As a gateway node may allow network a PSTN network to be able to transmit and receive communications from other non PSTN networks such as network an IP network. More specifically as a gateway node may translate communications between the various protocols used by networks and

Network access devices may provide home network access to fBSs through any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In some embodiments network access device may be supplied by the user s ISP. For example if the user s ISP is a cable company then the ISP may supply a cable modem as network access device . As another example if the user s ISP is a phone company then the ISP may supply an xDSL modem as network access device . As may be apparent network access device may provide home network access to components other than fBSs . For example the user may connect his personal computer to network access device to access the internet.

Endpoints and or nodes may provide data or network services to a user through any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . For example endpoints may include a cell phone an IP telephone a computer a video monitor a camera a personal data assistant or any other hardware software and or encoded logic that supports the communication of packets or frames using one or more of networks . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that can send or receive data and or signals.

Although illustrates a particular number and configuration of endpoints connections links and nodes communication system contemplates any number or configuration of such components for communicating data. In addition elements of communication system may include components centrally located local with respect to one another or distributed throughout communication system .

Proxy server and endpoint may each include one or more portions of one or more computer systems. In particular embodiments one or more of these computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems may provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In some embodiments encoded software running on one or more computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provide functionality described or illustrated herein.

The depicted components of proxy server and endpoint may comprise any suitable physical form configuration number type and or layout. As an example and not by way of limitation proxy server and or endpoint may comprise an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or a system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate proxy server and or endpoint may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Where appropriate proxy server and or endpoint may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation proxy server and or endpoint may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more proxy servers and or endpoints may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In the depicted embodiment proxy server and endpoint may each include their own respective processors and memory and storage and interfaces and and buses and . These components may work together to facilitate in the remote downloading of one or more files. Although a particular network is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable network having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement. For simplicity similar components of proxy server and endpoint will be discussed together wherein the components of endpoint will be identified in parenthesis. However it is not necessary for both devices to have the same components or the same type of components. For example processor may be a general purpose microprocessor and processor may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

Processor and or may be a microprocessor controller or any other suitable computing device resource or combination of hardware software and or encoded logic operable to provide either alone or in conjunction with other components e.g. memory or respectively remote downloading functionality. Such functionality may include providing various features discussed herein. For example processor may determine when to download a file locally at endpoint and when to have the file downloaded remotely by proxy server . Additional examples and functionality provided at least in part by processor and or will be discussed below.

In particular embodiments processor and or may include hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor and or may retrieve or fetch instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory and or or storage and or decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory and or or storage and or .

In particular embodiments processor and or may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor and or including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor and or may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory and or or storage and or and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor and or . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory and or or storage and or for instructions executing at processor and or to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor and or for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor and or or for writing to memory and or or storage and or or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor and or . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translations for processor and or . In particular embodiments processor and or may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor and or may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor and or may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors and or or any other suitable processor.

Memory and or may be any form of volatile or non volatile memory including without limitation magnetic media optical media random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory removable media or any other suitable local or remote memory component or components. Memory and or may store any suitable data or information utilized by proxy server and or endpoint including software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . In particular embodiments memory and or may include main memory for storing instructions for processor and or to execute or data for processor and or to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation proxy server and or endpoint may load instructions from storage and or or another source such as for example another computer system another base station or a remote transceiver to memory and or . Processor and or may then load the instructions from memory and or to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor and or may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor and or may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor and or may then write one or more of those results to memory and or . In particular embodiments processor and or may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory and or as opposed to storage and or or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory and or as opposed to storage and or or elsewhere .

Bus and or may include any combination of hardware software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware to couple components of proxy server and or endpoint to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus and or may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus and or may include any number type and or configuration of buses and or where appropriate. In particular embodiments one or more buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor and or to memory and or . Bus and or may include one or more memory buses. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and or and memory and or and facilitate accesses to memory and or requested by processor and or . In particular embodiments memory and or may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory and or may include one or more memories and or where appropriate.

In particular embodiments storage and or may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage and or may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage and or may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage and or may be internal or external to proxy server and or endpoint where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage and or may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage and or may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Storage and or may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage and or may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and or and storage and or where appropriate.

In particular embodiments interface and or may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between proxy server endpoint fBS any networks any network devices and or any other computer systems. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface and or may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network and or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network.

In some embodiments interface and or may comprise one or more radios coupled to one or more antennas. In such an embodiment interface and or may receive digital data that is to be sent out to wireless devices such as endpoints via a wireless connection. The radio may convert the digital data into a radio signal having the appropriate center frequency bandwidth parameters and transmission power. Similarly the radios may convert radio signals received via the antenna into digital data to be processed by for example processor and or .

Depending on the embodiment interface and or may be any type of interface suitable for any type of network. As an example and not by way of limitation interface and or may be used to communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example proxy server and or endpoint may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a Wi Fi network a WiMAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Proxy server and or endpoint may include any suitable interface and or for any one or more of these networks where appropriate.

In some embodiments interface and or may include one or more interfaces for one or more I O devices. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and proxy server and or endpoint . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of interfaces and or for them. Where appropriate interface and or may include one or more devices or encoded software drivers enabling processor and or to drive one or more of these I O devices. Interface and or may include one or more interfaces and or where appropriate.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

Particular embodiments may include one or more non transitory computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor and or such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory and or one or more portions of storage and or or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Networks and may comprise any number of separate but interconnected networks operated by one or more different providers. For example network may comprise the ISP s network and network may comprise the WSP s network. A user may use their ISP s network for their home network access at their home location. In providing the user with home network access the ISP s network may include modems servers and gateways e.g. an ISP gateway . A user may use their WSP s wireless network to supply the user with wireless service. The wireless network may support technologies and or protocols such as a WiMAX LTE A or LTE. In providing the wireless service the WSP s network may utilize servers and gateways. The user may also use the WSP s network to provide remote downloading functionality. One or more components of network may provide authentication and or authorization for endpoint . Proxy server may take advantage of this authentication by not requiring the user to send separate or additional authentication information in order to take advantage of the remote downloading capability. Networks and or may comprise any number of additional networks including but not limited to the internet a LAN WAN MAN PSTN or some combination of the above.

fBS may in essence be a small base station providing a limited coverage area for a home or office. Depending on the embodiment and configuration of fBS it may be public or private. fBS may rely on the user s home network access e.g. via a modem not depicted provided by the user s ISP to provide the backhaul connection to the WSP s network. In certain embodiments fBS may comprise or be coupled to a storage device.

Server may comprise any combination of hardware and or encoded logic or software including firmware needed to host files for downloading. Server may use any one or more of a variety of access control methods to limit user access to available files. The method used may impact the type of request and set of credentials needed to access content hosted by server . For example one common security method used for access control is Hypertext Transfer Protocol Secure HTTPS . For proxy server to be able to download a file from server using HTTPS storage of proxy server may need to store information such as a session ID a random number a cipher suite server s public key and any other information needed to successfully gain access to server s content.

The following examples may help to illustrate how these components inter work with one another to provide the functionality of particular embodiments. Assume that while a user is traveling away from his home location the user is using a web browser running on their endpoint to search for movies. Once the user identifies and selects a movie the movie may be downloaded and saved at the WSP s proxy server . In some embodiments endpoint may receive a message indicating that proxy server has finished is about to finish or has started downloading the movie. Depending on the embodiment or scenario when the user returns to his home location he will be able to retrieve it from proxy server e.g. via fBS or a storage device maintained in the user s home. If the movie is stored at proxy server the user may download the movie to his endpoint or to a storage device using fBS . If the movie has already been transferred to a storage device the user may access and or transfer the file using any of a variety of techniques e.g. a wired or wireless link such as Ethernet USB or Wi Fi . While this example is focused on a movie remote downloading may be used for any file to be downloaded including for example system software upgrades for endpoint . In some embodiments the file being downloaded to proxy server may comprise files hosted by the WSP that the user is able to select using the user s subscription account e.g. transactions at the WSP s media store may be carried out within the WSP s network thus providing a secure shopping experience .

Downloading the file to proxy server from server may be achieved through a variety of techniques. For example in some embodiments storage may store a proxy program that processor may execute to allow proxy server to accept connections and or remote download requests from endpoint . In certain embodiments proxy server may not need login information from endpoint because proxy server may rely on the user authentication provided by the WSP. The proxy program may work in concert with a plug in that is maintained in storage of endpoint . Processor may run the plug in to intercept reformat and redirect at least some download requests e.g. requests for files greater than a threshold number of bytes made from the user s browser or any other program e.g. an electronic bookstore an application store etc. running on endpoint . The intercepted requests may be directed through the WSP s network to the proxy program running on proxy server .

In particular embodiments a user may decide whether or not to send a request to proxy server . For example when processor recognizes that a user is attempting to download a file endpoint may generate a prompt asking the user if the file should be downloaded locally or at proxy server . Depending on the embodiment the prompt may be generated automatically e.g. anytime a user attempts to download any file any file over a certain size or a particular file type or based on user input e.g. a user presses a button on endpoint to call up the prompt . The prompt may be a menu entry a pop up window a new page or any other type of prompt. For example in some embodiments a user may press a button that calls for a popup menu with an option to save link remotely in addition to or instead of an option to save link as. In some embodiments processor may generate a new hyper link within the webpage as displayed by endpoint s browser. For example a webpage provided by server may comprise a hyperlink to download a movie. Processor may recognize that the hyperlink is to download a movie and may when rendering the webpage add a second hyperlink proximate to the original hyperlink. The second hyperlink may be distinct from the original hyperlink so as to alert the user that selecting the second hyperlink will remotely download the movie and selecting the original hyperlink will download the movie locally for example to storage of endpoint .

Once it has been determined that a file is to be downloaded by proxy server endpoint may instead of sending a request to server send a request to the proxy program run by proxy server . The request may include the user s security credentials and or any log in information needed to access and or download the requested file from server . In some embodiments the request may be sent to proxy server without the user first logging into proxy server . For example proxy server may rely on the user authentication provided by the WSP and or the components of the WSP s network. In particular embodiments storage of proxy server may maintain at least some of the user s credentials for server . Thus the request from endpoint may not contain all the credentials needed to download files from server . In some embodiments the request may comprise a format similar to the following plain English syntax Please download the file xxx at URL y.y.y. In some embodiments in which a storage device has been configured within the user s home to receive files downloaded by proxy server the user may specify a location to which a file is to be saved.

When proxy server receives a request from endpoint to download a file from server interface may send a request e.g. an HTTP request to server requesting the file for download. The request may include information provided by endpoint and or information stored by storage . After server accepts the request from proxy server proxy server may start to download the file on behalf of endpoint . In some embodiments once the download is complete interface of proxy server may send a message to endpoint indicating that the file has been successfully downloaded.

When the user returns home the user may use endpoint to retrieve the file downloaded by proxy server . For example in some embodiments if the file is stored at proxy server endpoint may retrieve the file by downloading it via fBS . This scenario may reduce the load placed on the WSP s mobile wireless network. As another example in some embodiments the file may be stored on a storage device that is a part of or coupled to fBS . This file may be transferred to the storage device before the user returns home. Then once the user returns home endpoint may retrieve the file from the storage device using any suitable data transfer means including via a wireline or wireless link such as Ethernet USB Bluetooth Wi Fi WiMAX or LTE.

Depending on the embodiment the file may be retrieved by endpoint either from proxy server via fBS or from a storage device at the user s home as soon as endpoint has a connection to fBS after endpoint and or proxy server receive a request to retrieve the file from proxy server to endpoint at a predetermined or scheduled time at any other convenient or suitable time or after any convenient or suitable triggering event.

In some scenarios and or embodiments proxy server may need user credentials in order to access or download a file from server . These credentials may be sent by endpoint over the WSP s networks without additional encryption protection. In some embodiments the credentials may be provided by endpoint over a secure connection. For example in some embodiments an Internet Protocol Security IPSec connection may be established between endpoint and proxy server . When a user requests that proxy server download a file endpoint may use the secure connection to send the user s credentials to proxy server . In some embodiments the request may comprise a format similar to the following plain English syntax Please use username uuu and password ppp to download file xxx at URL y.y.y. 

In some cases a certificate may be needed during the first connection to server to authenticate the identity of the user. In such cases it may be that proxy server or a proxy program running thereon sends its own certificate along with the user s username and or password to server . In particular embodiments processor of proxy server may be able to parse the response messages from server so as to reply with the correct responses. This may allow the proxy program to behave like a client browser thus server may be unaware that it is communicating with a proxy program.

In certain embodiments if server requires information that proxy server and or the proxy program are unable to provide e.g. a web site that asks additional security questions if it receives an HTTP request from an unfamiliar IP address or without a proper cookie interface may transmit a message to endpoint . The message may be transmitted via the secure connection. Depending on the nature or type of information that is needed the user may send the additional information to proxy server from endpoint or the user may wait until he is at his home location and then connect to server from his home computer to manually enter the information needed by server .

In particular embodiments proxy server may be configured so that the proxy program run by proxy server is able to use the same authentication credentials e.g. security keys password cookies digital signatures etc. as endpoint . In certain embodiments the authentication credentials may be synchronized between endpoint and proxy server when endpoint is connected to for example fBS in a secure way e.g. through the user s home network . In some scenarios the user may be able to set a policy on how the credentials are synchronized maintained and or deleted.

In some embodiments fBS and or proxy server may be accessible through the WSP s network. For example the WSP may provide a relay feature to allow endpoint to send receive messages to from fBS and or proxy server . In particular embodiments a control node e.g. a Mobility Management Entity MME associated with the WSP s network may register the address of fBS and or proxy server .

In some embodiments file retrieval requests may be sent for example through the WSP s network as opposed to through the internet using the relay feature and the registered address of fBS and or proxy server . Proxy server may then transfer the requested file via the users home network access. Because the request is transmitted through the WSP s network it may be more secure than having the request sent via the internet. While the request is transmitted primarily through the WSP s network the majority of the traffic e.g. the downloaded file does not go through the WSP s mobile wireless network nor use resources of the mobile wireless network.

Thus far several different embodiments and features have been presented. Particular embodiments may combine one or more of these features depending on operational needs and or component limitations. This may allow for great adaptability of network to the needs of various organizations and users. Some embodiments may include additional or different features. In particular embodiments the functionality of proxy server may be a part of one or more other components of the WSP s network. Moreover the ability to remotely download files may be implemented in any type of wireless technology.

The method begins at step with the reception of a request to download a file from a remote server. The download request may be received from a program or a user interface of a program running on an endpoint. In some instances the endpoint may be using a wireless service provider s wireless network. For example a user may be browsing a website comprising movie downloads. When a user identifies a movie to be downloaded the user may request that the movie be downloaded from a remote server hosting the movie.

At step the endpoint may determine that the download time needed to download the requested file is greater than a threshold amount of time. This may be the case for large files such as movies or music. In some instances the endpoint may receive an HTTP OK reply from the server before the endpoint determines that the download time exceeds a threshold amount of time. The time to download the file may be based on a data rate at the endpoint and a size associated with the file. Depending on the embodiment and or scenario the threshold amount of time may be set by the wireless service provider e.g. to reduce network traffic by the user e.g. to limit data consumption or any other entity that may wish to limit or control the amount of data that is downloaded over a wireless network.

At step a remote download request is generated. The remote download request may request that a file be downloaded by a component or device other than the requesting endpoint. For example a proxy server provided by the wireless service provider may remotely download files when requested. The request may be generated from a program running on the endpoint e.g. a browser a third party e.g. a podcast subscription or the WSP e.g. a firmware update for the endpoint .

In the depicted scenario the remote download request is generated because it was determined that it would take more than a threshold amount of time to download the requested file. In other embodiments the endpoint may automatically generate the request any time a user selects a large file e.g. a file greater than a threshold number of bits selects a file from a particular remote server selects a file during a certain time of day the available bandwidth or data rate is below a threshold level the endpoint is roaming etc. In some embodiments the request may be generated based on an explicit indication received from a user. In particular embodiments or scenarios the request may be generated by a component or device within the WSP s network. For example in issuing a software update for the endpoint a component of the WSP s may generate the remote download request to have the software update downloaded. In some embodiments or scenarios the request may be generated by a third party component. For example the user may have a subscription to one or more online magazines newspapers podcasts or other content. As another example the user may use a proxy server as a social networking port for non urgent updates. A download request may be generated whenever new content is available for either a subscription or from a social networking port. The above are just a few examples of instances where it may be suitable to have a file downloaded on behalf of a user and then transfer the file to the user s endpoint at a later time.

At steps and the endpoint transmits the remote download request and it is received by a proxy server configured and operated by a wireless service provider. The remote download request may include at least an address associated with a server and or file to be downloaded by the proxy server. The request may be communicated over the WSP s network including wireless and wired links . This may provide a heightened degree of security and authenticity compared to requests that may be transmitted over other networks such as the internet. This may allow the proxy server to take advantage of the user authentication performed by the WSP and or the WSP s network. Depending on the scenario the request may include information such as the URL for the server hosting the file login information for the server and or file timing of when to download the file and or when to transfer the file to the user s endpoint or home location location information on where the file is to be stored or any other information that may be suitable for determining parameters of the remote downloading of the file. Sending the remote download request may result in a relatively small amount of data being sent over the WSP s mobile wireless network as compared to the endpoint downloading the file . In addition because the endpoint s involvement in the downloading of the file from the remote server essentially ends with the sending of the request the endpoint need not stay connected to the wireless network while the file is downloaded by the proxy server.

At step the proxy server downloads the file from the remote server. Certain remote servers may require login information or other security credentials to download a file. The security credentials required by the remote server may be sent to the proxy server from the endpoint along with the request to remotely download the file from the remote server. In some instances the security credentials may already be stored at the proxy server e.g. the proxy server may have stored the security credentials from a previous download from the remote server . The proxy server may download the file to a storage device coupled to the proxy server. In some embodiments once the proxy server has downloaded the file it may be transferred to a storage device such as a storage device within the user s home. In certain embodiments the proxy server may wait for a request or instruction from the user to transfer the file to the user s endpoint.

At step the proxy server sends a message to the endpoint. The message may be sent after any of a variety of events. For example the message may be sent after the proxy server has finished downloading the file when the proxy server begins downloading the file when the proxy server has downloaded a certain percentage of the file or at any other suitable time. In some embodiments the message may alert the user that the proxy server has finished is about to finish or has begun downloading the file. This may give the user an idea of when the file may be ready for retrieval. The message may be sent in any of a variety of ways including but not limited to email text message voice mail instant message an audible tone a pop up window an alert window an icon an icon overlay or any other way which may alert a user as to the status of a remote download.

At step the file is transferred to the storage device. In certain embodiments the storage device may be coupled to the user s fBS. In some embodiments the entire file may be transferred. For example once the proxy server has finished downloading the file or has downloaded a certain percentage of the file from the remote server it may transfer the file or begin to transfer the file to the storage device. In some embodiments the storage device may operate as a buffer. For example when a user requests to download the file to his endpoint the proxy server may begin transferring the file to the storage device. Once a certain percentage of the file has been transferred to the storage device the user may begin to download the file from the storage device to his endpoint. In transferring the file to the storage device the proxy server may use the user s home network access. This may reduce the traffic demands placed on the mobile wireless network. In some embodiments the proxy server may wait until a scheduled time of day before it downloads the file from the remote server and or transfers the file to the storage device.

At step the endpoint is detected. In some embodiments detecting the endpoint may comprise the fBS establishing a connection with the endpoint. The fBS may relay this to the proxy server so that the proxy server is able to detect the presence of the endpoint. The connection may be wireless e.g. WiFi LTE or WiMAX or wired e.g. USB . In some embodiments the endpoint s presence may not be detected until the endpoint explicitly signals to the fBS and or proxy server that it is ready to download the file. For example the user may select an option or press a button on the endpoint to request the file be downloaded to his endpoint. In some embodiments the file may be downloaded whenever the user syncs his endpoint.

At step the file is transferred from the proxy server to the endpoint. The upload may be facilitated by the user s fBS. In some instances the transfer may comprise requesting that the file be transferred from the proxy server to the endpoint via the fBS. For example the file may be transferred to the endpoint using a wireless connection with the fBs e.g. via the same wireless interface such as an LTE or WiMAX interface that the endpoint uses to communicate within the WSP s wireless network . As another example the file may be transferred to the endpoint over the user s home network e.g. via a WiFi connection . In some instances the transfer may comprise requesting the file be transferred to the endpoint from a storage device. In some embodiments the file may be transferred to a storage device in the user s home via the user s fBS. The transfer may be before the user returns home then when the user is home the user is able to retrieve the file from the storage device. In some instances the file may be automatically transferred to the endpoint when the endpoint is within range e.g. within the coverage area of the user s fBS. In some instances the transfer may be based on the time of day the day of the week the date or any other scheduling indicator that may be used to schedule when files are transferred.

Although particular embodiments have been described in detail it should be understood that various other changes substitutions and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of particular embodiments. For example while the embodiment depicted in includes a certain number of steps depicted in a certain order it is to be understood that other embodiments may have more fewer or different steps and the steps may be rearranged. For example in some embodiments the file being retrieved from the proxy server may be a software update for the endpoints. The software update may be made available to the endpoint without the endpoint first requesting the software update. That is the request may originate from the WSP. As another example in some embodiments the file may be transferred from the proxy server to the endpoint via the fBS without being transferred to a storage device.

As another example although an embodiment has been described with reference to a number of elements included within communication system such as endpoints fBSs proxy servers and MBS these elements may be combined rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular routing architectures or needs. In addition any of these elements may be provided as separate external components to communication system or each other where appropriate. Particular embodiments contemplate great flexibility in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that the present invention encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

