---

title: Structural support to underwater vessels using shape memory alloys
abstract: A supporting arrangement for a vessel for counteracting compressive loads at an operating temperature. The supporting arrangement also provides inertial stiffening of the hull of the vessel as well as acoustic and vibration damping. The supporting arrangement includes a support structure that is made from a shape memory alloy that contacts and presses against the inner walls of the vessel. The supporting arrangement utilizes the shape recovery properties and/or the internal energy properties of the shape memory alloy support structure to provide reinforcing and damping forces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08474390&OS=08474390&RS=08474390
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08474390
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100309
---
This is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 700 966 filed Jan. 23 2007 now U.S. Pat No. 7 707 957 issued on May 4 2010 hereby incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a structure for reinforcing supporting structures in vessels that experience amplified pressures more particularly the invention is directed to the use of shape memory alloys as reinforcement support against increased hydrostatic pressures experienced by underwater vessels.

Submersible vehicles are used in a variety of naval and civilian activities. Submersible vehicles undergo increasing hydrostatic pressures as they submerge into the ocean. To resist high pressures the hulls of submersible vehicles are typically constructed from surface of revolution shapes i.e. spherical shells cylinders and spheroids with these shapes being typically compartmentalized and often reinforced.

In spite of the use of shapes and conventional reinforcement structures that accommodate for increased hydrostatic pressures ship hulls still experience high stress levels. The high levels of stress concentration are experienced on internal surfaces at junctures where spherical and or cylindrical compartments are combined. When compartments are joined there typically is a transition area between the compartments. These transition areas must allow for these high stress levels. Another area where stresses are increased is around view ports and other penetrations which require built up areas to sustain the higher stress. For depths of about 5000 to 25 000 ft thick walled spherical and cylindrical shapes are typically employed for resisting extreme pressures. Generally materials of high strength to weight ratios are utilized. It is desired to have arrangements that more efficiently accommodate for these high pressures for example arrangements that incorporate frames of reduced thicknesses and weight. Submersible vehicles may also be subjected to shock and vibration. It is also desired to have arrangements that dissipate the detrimental effects of shock and vibration.

The present invention addresses aspects of problems outlined above. Preferred embodiments of the present invention provide an arrangement for providing structural support for underwater vessels.

In one aspect the invention is a supporting arrangement for counteracting compressive loads at an operating temperature. According to the invention the arrangement includes a vessel shell having an enclosed inner wall portion. The supporting arrangement further includes a support structure for exerting an outward pressing force on the vessel shell at the operating temperature. The support structure comprises a shape memory alloy having an original configuration at an operating temperature and an altered configuration at a reduced temperature. The support structure contacts the enclosed inner wall portion of the vessel shell.

In another aspect the invention is an underwater vessel supporting arrangement for counteracting compressive loads at an operating temperature. In this aspect the arrangement includes a vessel shell having an enclosed inner wall portion. The underwater vessel supporting arrangement further includes one or more support structures. The one or more support structures are for exerting an outward pressing force on the vessel shell at the operating temperature. Each of the one or more support structures comprises a shape memory alloy having an original substantially linear shape at the operating temperature and an altered shape at a reduced temperature. Each of the one or more support structures contacts the enclosed inner wall portion of the vessel shell. According to this aspect at the operating temperature each of the one or more support structures is restricted to the altered shape by the inner wall portion of the vessel shell. The vessel shell prevents the recovery to the original substantially linear shape. This results in each of the restricted support structures exerting the outward pressing force on the vessel shell.

The support structure is formed from a shape memory alloy. As will be highlighted throughout the disclosure in the present invention shape memory alloys are used as support structures because of advantages associated with the alloys three common physical states of existence the martensitic state the austenitic state and the superelastic state. The martensitic state occurs at a reduced temperature. At this reduced temperature the shape memory alloy is bendable or distortable has the ability to absorb large amounts of energy and is extremely resistant to fatigue. The austenitic state occurs at an elevated temperature as compared to the martensitic state. In the austenitic state shape memory alloys attempt to revert to the shape they held before being altered during the martensitic state. The superelastic state occurs at higher temperatures than required to enter the austenitic state. In the superelastic state the shape memory alloy also attempts to recover its former shape. Additionally in this state the shape memory alloys exhibit spring like qualities with the capability to withstand large stresses and spring back to the original shape.

Returning to the support structure is anchored at against a restraint . The originally substantially linear support structure is mechanically worked into an arc like configuration. The working process includes cooling the support structure so that it enters into a martensitic state. The support structure is subsequently heated to enter into an austenitic state wherein the support structure would typically assume its original shape i.e. a substantially linear shape as shown in . However as shown in the support structure is wedged behind a restraint . Consequently the support structure is constrained from returning to its original shape. This results in a force F being produced against the restraint . According to an embodiment of this invention the force F associated with the shape recovery as illustrated in is used to provide internal strengthening in submersible vessels.

As outlined above the ring shaped band is formed from substantially linear strips of shape memory alloy strip. Each strip is processed at a reduced temperature. After the ring shaped band is assembled in the vessel shell at the reduced temperature the structure is heated to an appropriate temperature to enter an austenitic state. In the austenitic state each strip attempts to assume its original shape i.e. a substantially linear shape as shown in . The appropriate temperature is typically the operating temperature i.e. the temperature at which the submersible vessel typically operates and the actual heating up of the strips may be accomplished merely by contact with the vessel shell. The temperature at which the shape memory alloy remembers its high temperature form can be adjusted by slight changes in the composition of the alloy and through heat treatment. For example in nickel titanium shape memory alloys the composition can be manipulated to control the progression into the austenitic state at any desired temperature in a range from about 100 C. to about 100 C.

Because the ring shaped band and its constituent strip or strips are wedged behind the vessel shell the strips of the ring shaped band are constrained from returning to their original shape. In an attempt to recapture its original shape the ring shaped band exerts an outward pressing force F against the vessel shell . As shown in this outward pressing force F counteracts the external hydrostatic pressure P which is generated as a function of the depth of the vessel below the water. The force F generated against the vessel shell allows the vessel to go deeper because some of the hydrostatic loads are counteracted by the tensile shape memory generated forces. The ring shaped band and its constituent strips also provide inertial stiffening to the vessel shell. Additionally the supporting arrangement which includes the ring shaped band improves creep and fatigue strength by counteracting the hydrostatic loads.

Similar to the above example each strip in the multiple layered supporting structure assembly is processed at a reduced temperature assembled in the vessel shell heated to an operating temperature after which each strip attempts to assume its original shape. In the attempt to recapture the original shape the ring shaped band exerts an outward pressing force F against the vessel shell . In this embodiment the outward pressing force F may be further tailored to specific applications by utilizing shape memory alloy strips of different properties in the ring shaped band. For example in areas of the shell where more resistance is desired an alloy strip with greater stiffness may be employed in the specific area that requires that increased resistance. This functionally graded arrangement has the benefit of reducing shock resistance and improving fatigue and creep performance in the submersible vessel.

In another embodiment the cylindrical coil is manufactured to a size that is substantially equal to the size of the substantially cylindrical compartment. The cylindrical coil is then cooled at a reduced temperature wherein it enters into a martensitic state and is transformed to a cylindrical coil of reduced diameter a diameter smaller than the diameter of the substantially cylindrical compartment. The cylindrical coil is then fitted into the substantially cylindrical compartment and heated to an appropriate temperature to enter a superelastic state where the cylindrical coil expands to a size about equal to its original size and presses against the enclosed inner wall of the vessel shell with a force F. In addition to resistance to external compressive forces the cylindrical coil provides inertial stiffening to the hull. In this embodiment the cylindrical coil offers additional shock absorbing capabilities because of the coil s spring like characteristics in the superelastic state. In this state the coil is able to withstand high stresses and still spring back to the original state. The shock absorbing ability of the support structure is further enhanced due to the resilience of the coil that can be attributed its shape. Additionally one or more layers of damping materials as outlined in the embodiment of may be inserted between the cylindrical coil and the inner shell.

In another embodiment the cylindrical stent is manufactured to a size that is substantially equal to the size of the substantially cylindrical compartment. The cylindrical stent is then cooled at a reduced temperature wherein it enters into a martensitic state and is transformed to a cylindrical stent of reduced diameter a diameter smaller than the diameter of the substantially cylindrical compartment. The cylindrical stent is then fitted into the substantially cylindrical compartment and heated to an appropriate temperature to enter a superelastic state where the cylindrical stent expands to a size about equal to its original size and presses against the enclosed inner wall portion of the vessel shell with a force F. In this embodiment the cylindrical stent offers additional shock absorbing capabilities because of the stent s spring like characteristics in the superelastic state. In this state the stent is able to withstand large stresses and still spring back to the original shape. The shock absorbing ability of the support structure is further enhanced due to the resilience of the stent that can be attributed its shape. Additionally one or more layers of damping materials as outlined in the embodiment of may be inserted between the cylindrical stent and the inner shell.

In each of the above described embodiments the shape memory alloy materials may include nickel titanium based alloys indium titanium based alloys nickel aluminum based alloys nickel gallium based alloys copper based alloys such as copper zinc alloys copper aluminum alloys copper gold and copper tin alloys. Alloys such as gold cadmium based alloys silver cadmium based alloys indium cadmium based alloys manganese copper based alloys iron platinum based alloys iron platinum based alloys iron palladium based alloys may also be used. Variations in the combinations and compositions of these alloys may also be employed to provide desired results. For instance the temperature at which the shape memory alloy recovers its high temperature configuration can be adjusted by slight changes in the composition of the alloy and through heat treatment. In nickel titanium shape memory alloys for example the temperature for entering into the austenitic state can be manipulated from above about 100 degrees Celsius to below about 100 degrees Celsius by manipulating the composition of the nickel titanium. It should be noted that in each of the above described embodiments in addition to resistance to external compressive forces the support structures provide inertial stiffening to the hull. Additionally when non magnetic shape memory alloys are employed in the present invention the supporting arrangement includes the benefit of reduced magnetic susceptibility.

What has been described and illustrated herein are preferred embodiments of the invention along with some variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. For example the strips and damping layers as represented in are not drawn to scale. The supporting arrangement disclosed may also be applied in vessel hulls that have streamlined or teardrop shapes. Flat ring shaped bands such as supports may be utilized in substantially spherical sections. Additionally the general supporting arrangement may also be applied to vessels in other environments that experience large hydrostatic pressures. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the invention which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

