---

title: Calibration and operational assurance method and apparatus for RFID object monitoring system
abstract: A method for monitoring objects in a three dimensional target area and or business process decision making. The methods include calibration, recalibration, operation and rules compliance for a radio frequency object monitoring system. Location tags are placed throughout a three dimensional area in predetermined positions and used to determine relative position, movement and or distances of objects with and without object tags. Repeated scanning and comparison of data provides a database by which the object monitoring system responds according to predetermined rules.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08451121&OS=08451121&RS=08451121
owner: PF Controls, LLC
number: 08451121
owner_city: St. Louis
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100909
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 194 titled Calibration and Operational Assurance Method and Apparatus for RFID Object Monitoring Systems filed by Christopher D. Hook Graham P. Bloy Thomas Elinwood and Christopher G. G. Turner on Sep. 10 2009 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The invention relates to touch free identification location and or tracking systems such as systems applying RFID tag technologies to achieve identification location and tracking of objects and items to which RFID tags are attached and or associated. More particularly the invention utilizes historical and or pre configured data of the location and status of objects for example via location of associated RFID tags attached to either fixed or movable objects or to both objects or items in a space to improve the utility accuracy and performance of the identification location and or tracking systems.

Previous RFID tag inventory and or object passage gateway monitoring systems have generally relied upon reading one or a plurality of tags each tag representing a unit or known quantity of units of associated objects. It may not be practical to apply an RFID tag to each object to be monitored and or it is desirable to monitor the presence of quantities of the objects to be monitored with greater precision than just a binary indication of an RFID tag associated with a quantity of objects each of which may or may not be tagged as might be the case with items contained in a parts bin.

RFID tags are attached and or associated. More particularly the invention utilizes historical and or pre configured data of the location and status of objects for example via location of associated RFID tags attached to either fixed or movable objects or to both objects or items in a space to improve the utility accuracy and performance of the identification location and or tracking systems.

Previous RFID tag inventory and or object passage gateway monitoring systems have generally relied upon reading one or a plurality of tags each tag representing a unit or known quantity of units of associated objects. It may not be practical to apply an RFID tag to each object to be monitored and or it is desirable to monitor the presence of quantities of the objects to be monitored with greater precision than just a binary indication of an RFID tag associated with a quantity of objects each of which may or may not be tagged as might be the case with items contained in a parts bin.

RFID tags are attached and or associated. More particularly the invention utilizes historical and or pre configured data of the location and status of objects for example via location of associated RFID tags attached to either fixed or movable objects or to both objects or items in a space to improve the utility accuracy and performance of the identification location and or tracking systems.

Previous RFID tag inventory and or object passage gateway monitoring systems have generally relied upon reading one or a plurality of tags each tag representing a unit or known quantity of units of associated objects. It may not be practical to apply an RFID tag to each object to be monitored and or it is desirable to monitor the presence of quantities of the objects to be monitored with greater precision than just a binary indication of an RFID tag associated with a quantity of objects each of which may or may not be tagged as might be the case with items contained in a parts bin.

In prior RFID portal systems RFID readers monitor RFID tags attached to objects and or object loads during passage through defined gateways such as a number of dock doors in a distribution center. Because of the nature of known RFID systems it is not always cost efficient to provide a system capable of determining whether particular tags are in a particular door without extensive and cost intensive modification such as application of RF shielding and or duplicated narrow beam antenna configurations it is possible for example for a reader associated with one door to read a tag in adjacent doors. Without dedicated door sensors combined with tag motion detection it is not possible to determine whether a particular door is open or closed and whether an object is moving out of the distribution center or into the distribution center.

Further many items have packaging that is not complementary to being tagged and or is not RF friendly such as metal cans and or plastic bottles. Also it may not be economical to tag individual items such as nails bolts batteries coins or the like. To optimize inventory operations for example for Just In Time inventory systems it is desirable to know the rate of depletion and or when inventory of a specific item is about to be depleted before actual depletion occurs.

Commonly owned PCT Patent Application Publication WO 2009 035723 titled Radio Frequency Signal Acquisition and Source Location System by Bloy et al published Mar. 19 2009 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety discloses a real time RFID technology location system that utilizes an Intelligent Tracking and Control System ITCS coupled to one or more intelligent antenna Signal Acquisition and Source Location SASL modules an ITCS installation to enable the accurate 3 dimensional location of passive RFID tags arbitrarily placed and or moving through a defined target area. Identification location and or tracking systems such as the ITCS object identification systems described in WO 2009 035723 enable the identification and location of tags and or tagged items attributing significance to the appearance disappearance location or co location of tags or tagged items and thereby facilitating better business process decisions.

Commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 395 595 titled Radio Frequency Environment Object Monitoring System and Methods of Use by Bloy et al filed Feb. 27 2009 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety discloses methods and apparatus for collecting and comparing instances of an ITCS installation target area RF environment to determine the presence and or movement of tagged and or un tagged objects in the target area.

Therefore it is an object of the invention to provide an object monitoring solution that overcomes deficiencies in the prior art. A further object of the present invention is to facilitate ease of configuration operation reliability and maintenance of an ITCS installation and or other RFID technology object location system installations.

Studying the operational parameters of object location systems the inventors have identified among others three significant problems in the art of high performance passive UHF RFID systems and for which hitherto there have not been solutions. The problems are a how to maintain maximal operating range over the long term b how to ensure the stability or long term accuracy of tag location attributes of the system and c how to overcome the variations in the RF environment resulting from normal business operations. It has been observed that the location accuracy of a passive RFID tag object location system such as ITCS suffers over time due to a number of factors one of which is the change in the RF environment and the other is the mechanical changes to the installation which affect the location signal propagation and or the alignment accuracy of SASL antenna. The solutions described herein overcome these concerns and provide a means to dynamically and adaptively alter the system to correct for such changes and alternatively raise an alarm when the self adapting system is out of self adjustment range.

A desirable characteristic of an automatic data capture system is that it should be capable of self monitoring the target area in which it is installed to record reference data pertaining to the locations of tags affixed to fixed items. Such tags while having substantially the same technical characteristics as tags attached to items for identification and location are given special significance as location tags . Hence through mechanisms described herein ITCS may monitor its environment for unanticipated changes that if undetected might adversely affect the performance or operation of the system.

Applying the methods herein the inventors have determined that it is possible to use a number of static location tags that are attached to non movable objects in the environment and the scanning capabilities of an object monitoring system such as an ITCS to reduce the complexity and cost of instrumentation and at the same time address the latent business process decision making issues described herein.

In an ITCS is provided with a rules engine that programmatically ascertains the significance of data that is gathered by the distributed SASL s under control of the location processor . The rules engine logical positioning is demonstrated via a first alternative and a second alternative . The first alternative depicts a rules engine implemented in software that is external to the location processor and communicates with the location processor via an API 8. The second alternative depicts a rules engine which communicates with the location processor via some other data communications interface other than the API 8 through which the ITCS location processor is managed and by which data is passed for example to a software application.

In an ITCS is provided with a rules engine embedded as an integral component of the location processor as a software firmware or other processing engine. The rules engine acts to locally interpret the location data gathered by the location processor and intelligently determines an action response or command based on predetermined rules.

In an ITCS is provided with system architecture which pushes more intelligence towards the periphery of the ITCS . The rules engine or a part thereof is implemented in each of the distributed SASLs . In this way SASLs are provided with a higher degree of autonomy but this distributed architecture for the rules engine still provides for collation of data into a further rules engine that may logically located as described relative to . This provides a form of distributed processing that may be centrally managed or may act autonomously depending on the system configuration.

Location tags are tags which are assigned particular significance in terms of their location. Location tags are typically attached to immovable parts of the infrastructure of the building or target area in which ITCS is installed to provide pre identified location and return signal characteristic verified reference points that ITCS can autonomously measure and cross check against during normal scanning operations.

Similarly the location of each specially characterized location tag is also measured in three dimensions and the calibration and tag location data is also stored in the aforementioned configuration or calibration database.

In an exemplary calibration method here described with respect to an ITCS installation as the object monitoring system RFID location tags are placed in pre defined fixed positions in the target area to be monitored. This set of fixed location tags can be called a constellation of tags. The exact D locations of each of the location tags in the constellation is measured for example relative to some datum point in the environment using a precision distance measuring device such as a laser range finder these measurements of known locations are stored in the ITCS database for reference. This is an important aspect of system calibration or measurement at commissioning as this information will be used later to form the basis for baseline operation of the object monitoring system . Subsequently ITCS periodically scans the target area and records the real time determined positions of each of the location tags . A rules engine compares the measured exact known locations as stored in the ITCS database with the subsequent determined positions of the calibration and or location tags . The rules engine then provides a number of reports and instructions. Good practice and an exemplary beneficial application of location tags would be to place such location tags in positions distributed throughout the target area to be monitored ensuring that at least a portion of the location tags are placed towards the extremity of the operating range of a SASL so that the ITCS system diagnostics circuits and operating system its firmware or software is able to detect gradual deterioration of performance which would be indicated for example by the disappearance of such peripheral location tags from the field of view of a SASL .

Representative decisions and actions of the rules engine according to any variances between the historical data and current data in the database are narrated below 

Noting that the location tags are expected to have persistent presence in the field of view of at least one SASL if ITCS determines that no location tags are present then it assumes that the object monitoring system is not working and raises an alarm for the technical team to undertake repairs or maintenance.

If a substantial percentage of the constellation of location tags has changed position but the relative positions of each of the location tags to each other has remained constant then the rules engine may for example assume that the mounting hardware or support brackets of one or more of the SASL antennas has been disturbed and execute an automatic re calibration of the object monitoring system and dynamically update the position fixing algorithms.

If a portion of the location tag positions have changed then ITCS may for example assume that the environment has changed such as an electromagnetically reflective or highly absorptive object has been placed in the environment creating a barrier then the rules engine may be configured to raise an alarm to the user. Alternatively the rules engine may first attempt to re calibrate its position fixing algorithms to correct for the aberration caused by the change in environment.

If a comparison between the received or backscatter signal strength is made between the original stored value at commissioning and the current scan of the environment then if the signal strength has deteriorated then the rules engine may issue a command to a reader engine to undertake a self diagnostic routine and take corrective action. Storing of and comparison with historical system operating parameters such as signal strength will help to diagnose and correct creeping deterioration in tracking performance or operating range at the fringes or extremes.

The installation of location tags provides anchors that can be used as references to compare the relative positions of moving tags or tags attached to assets or other objects. The anchored characteristic of the location tags may be used to improve the accuracy of positioning of moving tags in a similar way to which a fixed beacon is used to improve the accuracy of GPS Global Positioning System in a technique referred to as Differential or Assisted GPS commonly referred to using the acronyms DGPS and A GPS respectively . This is particularly relevant where the RF environment changes due to the introduction or removal of objects vehicles or equipment within the environment being monitored.

A common object identification environment is a warehouse shipping distribution center with a number of adjacent dock doors. Without special door sensors it may be difficult for a conventional portal RFID reader system to determine whether a particular door is open or closed and whether an object is moving through or past a particular door. While it is possible to install sensors and instruments in an environment of the type described these installations and associated communications and or power wiring require significant additional capital and maintenance resources.

To eliminate the need for door sensors an ITCS installation may include at least one tag attached to one or each of a plurality of doors in a predetermined position such that in the exemplary case of a roller dock door in a distribution centre as the door is opened the tag rises from the floor towards the top of the opening. Alternatively if the door to which a location tag has been attached swings on a hinge then the determined position of such location tag will indicate the state of the door opened or closed . An intrinsic nature of ITCS is that it automatically observes and monitors the position of the door tag of each door as well as the location of individual tags on items or objects in the vicinity of each of the doors. The rules engine may be configured to recognize an association between an individual door and the items that should be passing through or loaded via a dock door. If a monitored door is opened when it should not be open or if the inappropriate or incorrect items are passed through the door then an alert may be generated resulting in some action which could then be taken by a human or electronic or mechanical device. Furthermore the determined present location of a particular tag may be used by ITCS to programmatically through the configurable rules engine modify its operation.

Based on the observed position of the location tags the object monitoring system determines whether each of the doors is open or closed at . For example the open or shut state of the first door is reviewed at . If the door is open the door aperture is included within the scan pattern at . If the door is not open the door aperture is not included within the scan pattern at . Steps and are then repeated for the remaining doors. Once the status of all doors have been identified the object monitoring system creates a composite scan pattern at . A scan is then initiated to collect data relating to object tags at step . This data is saved in the database at . The process is then repeated beginning with a new scan back at .

Where objects are passing through doors known passive RFID systems frequently make use of portal readers to determine the identity of object tags or read data from the object tags as they pass through each portal. The nature of known RFID systems means that it is not always possible to determine with an acceptable degree of confidence whether particular object tags are in a particular door . Because of propagation conditions that can give rise to what the industry commonly refers to as spurious reads or extraneous reads it is possible for a reader in door to read a tag adjacent to door or door . Such spurious or extraneous reads can result in incorrect business process decisions because it is possible to misinterpret a spurious tag read the misinterpretation indicating that a particular object tag and hence tagged item is logically and therefore physically associated with the items that are really either being dispatched or received at door .

In the exemplary dock door case described herein the rules engine may make a determination based on the location of a location tag placed on the door to cause ITCS to scan or not scan the target area that is defined to cover the aperture of a particular dock door location. This sophisticated adaptive scanning technique is described in WO 2009 035723 Bloy et al. The rules engine may further use the relative position or movement of tags to command ITCS to focus its scanning activity to a much greater extent on a particular target area which might be for example the space in or near a door in which some particular object tags may have been detected. Note that this approach to attaching a location tag close to the edge of a door innovatively negates the need to install optical magnetic or other door status monitoring systems that are intended to indicate to a supervising system whether or not a particular door is opened or closed. A number of fixed location tags may be used as described herein above to improve the positioning accuracy of the door location tag s or indeed other tags which may move through the environment by using differential positioning also described herein above.

Note too that it is possible to ascertain whether the door location tag is present or absent as a means of achieving important overall systems diagnostics and maintenance since from a practical perspective it is known that in such operating environments tags may become detached or damaged or deliberately obscured to the extent that their operation is impaired. ITCS can report such an adverse event so that appropriate action may be taken.

The above description of a distribution center in which there are multiple adjacent dock doors in various states or conditions is used only to show an example of the general nature of the present invention. By design and applied variably through the characteristics of ITCS it is now possible to make use of the precise current location of tags and by extension the items to which said tags are attached and to attach business process significance to the current location of said tags with view to either automatically controlling the operation of ITCS to behave in a particular way or to impart such derived information to a business software application for attention and action. This action taken in response to an alert could be conducted by a human electronic and or mechanical system. The zonal monitoring and precise location capabilities of ITCS permit the system to provide critical information concerning the absence of a tag either specific by virtue of its unique code or in general terms from a predetermined location as an indicator that some action should be taken. By way of further example in a retail store environment the disappearance of a tag or plurality of tags from a particular area in which tags are expected to be located and by extension items to which the tags are attached may be a material event which traditional RFID systems comprised of portals nodes or hand held readers are not able to detect because these traditional systems lack the essential zonal monitoring characteristics of ITCS . For example the shielding of tags from RF excitation signals of a reader or SASL could be an indication that someone has attempted to steal the item to which the tag is attached.

In a second exemplary embodiment a retail store environment the ITCS may be deployed to monitor the sales floor. Object tags may be attached to consumer items such as individual pieces of apparel. Because of the large floor area to be covered a scan takes a finite length of time due to the limitations imposed by physics regulatory restrictions and the communications protocol used by ITCS to gather data wirelessly from distributed RFID tags. When ITCS detects object tags moving relative to location tags the rules engine may command ITCS to change its scanning pattern such that it concentrates on tracking these moving object tags . This is particularly relevant when object tags are moving towards the store exit or checkout. The change of scanning focus may be achieved by time slicing between scanning the entire area and scanning the variable locations of the moving object tags . If the moving object tags appear to be moving more quickly the rules engine may command ITCS to devote more of the time to the moving object tags and less time to general scanning. The rules engine may work in an adaptive manner such that certain pre determined conditions such as a value associated with the tagged item and or a distance of the items location from an external door and or exit are used to determine the degree of focus on these items when compared to other lower priority scans.

Clothing presented for sale on the sales floor of an apparel store is typically hung on mobile so called Z Bars rounders linears or presented lying flat on gondolas or shelves which may be mounted on castors for mobility. In an exemplary application a Z Bar is tagged this tag conveniently has the same general characteristics as the clothing tags. The clothing on the Z Bar is also tagged. If the Z Bar is being moved from the back room to the retail floor then the clothing tags should move with the asset tag this is a normal operating procedure. If when the Z Bar is being moved a tag or tags are separated and go their own way then it could indicate some form of unauthorized action is taking place a potentially abnormal inventory management operation.

The rules engine when recognizing a change from the normal environment to some other condition may modify the system s behavior to take some pre defined action such as sounding an alarm or pointing a CCTV camera at the abnormal environment or by sending an alert message to a portable device carried by an associate or a member of staff. Note that if a tag is attached to either the portable data capture or communications device carried by an associate for inventory management or if the associate s employee ID badge is also an RFID tag then it is possible to locate the position of an associate or associates relative to the location of a detected event in the store. This functionality was not possible to achieve in the past using passive RFID tags and conventional object monitoring systems applying nodal spot or choke point object monitoring. ITCS tracking and location capability makes these forms of multiple input over varied geography within the target area functionality possible without adding additional hardware requirements to the object monitoring system .

ITCS allows the introduction of soft zones. These zones may simply be defined using software tools within the ITCS virtual environment. This does away with the need to provide hardware and software monitoring of doorways portals or hardware defined zones. This behavior of the tag monitoring infrastructure permits and enables a new art of proactive loss prevention compared with the classic and existing art of loss indication as embodied in Electronic Article Surveillance EAS systems typically employed at the exits of retail stores. Such EAS systems are merely an indicator of a likely theft event at a point of egress which does not indicate the nature or quantity of EAS tagged goods that are probably being stolen. Furthermore once a stolen item has left a store it becomes very difficult to apprehend the thief or recover the goods.

The use of ITCS combined with the rules engine provides the functionality for follow me systems that may be configured for example for theft or loss prevention. The rules engine enables pre emptive decisions to be automatically performed based on pre determined process rules. In the example of the Z Bar the rules engine can analyze the load on the Z Bar carrier on the floor. A series of predetermined rules describe permissible behavior of the carrier and the contents load . When the behavior exceeds the bounds of permissible behavior the rules engine may trigger a follow me behavior in the ITCS or tracking software.

Another use for ITCS combined with the rules engine is in the monitoring of promotional displays and associated display ready inventory which are placed at various locations around the sales floor with the planned intent of stimulating consumers to purchase goods on promotion . In this embodiment one or more of the promotional displays are loaded with promotional items and placed in particular locations around the sales floor. It is well known in retailing that the locations of promotional displays has a critical impact on consumers buying behavior and hence impacting sales revenue for the store. For example there is a material difference in the utility of a promotional display when it is located on an end cap of a so called gondola or along an aisle between gondolas. The difference between correct placement of a particular promotional display located in accordance with compliance rules established by the retailer and the consumer goods manufacturer providing said promotional display and incorrect placement may be a matter of just a few feet. Hence accuracy of location of tagged promotional displays and associated display ready inventory is of critical importance and value to both the retailer and the consumer goods manufacturer. The inventors observe that known prior art systems for promotions monitoring in retail stores are deficient in one or more areas compared with ITCS and the present invention. The rules engine can monitor the position of the display in relation to fixed location tags to ensure that the display remains in the correct location or if it is intended to be moved that the display is moved to the proper location following the proper route and at the correct time. By monitoring the content of the display the rules engine can alert store staff to perform a replenishment action before the inventory on the promotional display falls below a critical level.

In another embodiment of the object monitoring system a record may be stored of the signal characteristics for example received signal strengths and phase all of which combined form a composite RF signature of each of the various fixed location tags that are liberally placed around the shelves in a storeroom. As items are added to the shelves the RF signature of the location tags attached to the shelves changes. The new signatures may be recorded and stored as described in detailed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 395 595. The aforementioned rules engine may be configured to recognize the varying states of the signatures of the shelf location tags which will change as items with differing dielectric properties are placed on or removed from the proximity of said location tags . If the occupancy of a shelf changes then the RF signatures of tags attached to the shelves change and the rules engine can then generate a report showing for example that inventory is running low and physical replenishment action may be initiated further including for example an identification of available assets taskable for the necessary task.

In a further exemplary embodiment a manufacturing industrial waste and or chemical production facility the handling and storage of materials which are typically stored or transported in containers referred to as intermediate bulk containers IBCs may be optimized. The storage and handling of chemicals and industrial waste is regulated by various agencies authorities and company standard operating procedures with the intent to ensuring safe storage and accountable handling. An ITCS may be deployed to monitor the arrival location and departure of tagged drums or other IBCs containing chemicals in a storage facility. It is prescribed that certain chemicals may not be stored in a manner where particular chemicals are co located with others and typically some minimum distance between such chemical storage IBCs is specified. Established techniques applied to ascertain arrival departure or storage location are fallible since for example portal RFID readers provide only monitoring of arrival and departure. Hand held bar code scanners or portable RFID readers could be employed within the storage facility but such devices do not confirm the proper location of tagged or bar coded IBCs. An ITCS installation with a dedicated metrics array provides not only the means to automatically monitor the arrival and departure of individual IBCs but critically can provide the accurate location of such IBCs so that the aforementioned rules engine provided with the metrics associated with permissible or unacceptable storage or co location conditions for particular chemicals contained in IBCs can raise an alert in the event that inappropriate co location has or will occur thus ensuring compliance with stipulated safe storage conditions. The use of location tags and environment self calibration using this invention ensures that the IBCs are precisely located at all times even under conditions where the RF environment is disturbed by the introduction of goods or items.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that the apparatus and systems disclosed provide significant advantages over prior spot nodal or choke point identification based tagged items. Furthermore the invention when applied to the innovative ITCS adds new multiple input and adaptive reasoning functionality to the tracking and location of RFID tags hitherto before not possible with known systems.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention is not restricted to the embodiments described herein but it may be applied to other similar applications involving the calibration operational status verification tracking tracing and location of objects or items using RFID tags or other radio frequency transponders.

Where in the foregoing description reference has been made to ratios integers components or modules having known equivalents then such equivalents are herein incorporated as if individually set forth.

While the present invention has been illustrated by the description of the embodiments thereof and while the embodiments have been described in considerable detail it is not the intention of the applicant to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. Therefore the invention in its broader aspects is not limited to the specific details representative apparatus methods and illustrative examples shown and described. Accordingly departures may be made from such details without departure from the spirit or scope of applicant s general inventive concept. Further it is to be appreciated that improvements and or modifications may be made thereto without departing from the scope or spirit of the present invention as defined by the following claims.

