---

title: Wireless passive temperature sensor
abstract: A wireless passive temperature sensor comprising a surface acoustic wave (SAW) delay line is constructed on a piezoelectric substrate having a thermal coefficient of frequency. An array of addressable, wireless passive temperature sensors can be used to monitor an array of temperature points on a structure using a wireless reader. Each sensor can be monitored by measuring the frequency of maximum reflection in their respective bands. A wireless passive heat flux gauge uses two temperature sensors with different frequency and/or time delay responses to measure that temperature differential across a thermal conductor that has a well characterized thermal conductivity and thickness.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08240911&OS=08240911&RS=08240911
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08240911
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100830
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to thermal measurement and in particular to wireless passive temperature sensor that can be used to remotely measure the spatial temperature profile and heat flux of a structure.

Precise pre deployment measurement of physical parameters such as temperature and heat flow under dynamic loads in satellite or other testing often requires adding large numbers of wires to support thermocouples or other types of probes. Not only do the wires provide a thermal conduction path that disturbs the measurement but the wires also change the dynamics of the body during acceleration and shock testing due to their added mass. Therefore wireless sensors are attractive for such physical measurements.

Surface acoustic wave SAW devices have been demonstrated to function linearly as temperature sensors over a broad range of temperature and they have been employed as wireless tags for tracking of high value assets in addition to various types of wireless sensors. See M. Viens and J. D. N. Cheeke Highly Sensitive Temperature Sensor Using SAW Resonator Oscillator 24 209 1990 L. Mingfang and L. Haiguo SAW temperature and humidity sensor with high resolution 12 53 1993 J. D. Sternhagen et al. A Novel Integrated Acoustic Gas and Temperature Sensor 2 4 301 2002 G. Scholl et al. Surface Acoustic Wave Devices for Sensor Applications 185 1 47 2001 and A. von Jena et al. Intelligent Sensor for Monitoring Freight Waggon Working Conditions 42 347 1994 . Wireless tagging and sensing applications require a method of self identification such as a unique photo lithographically patterned bit sequence of reflection structures to be fabricated on the device during manufacture. These bit sequences allow a unique identification code to be hardwired into a SAW device enabling identification of the particular part. This bit sequence requires each part on the wafer to have a unique photo mask and thus increases fabrication cost during dicing and packaging due to tracking requirements on that unique part. In addition some of the energy received by the SAW device via the antenna is used for the identification and thus reduces the energy available for the sensing measurement. This loss of energy reduces the signal to noise ratio of the SAW temperature sensor.

For application as a sensor there must be some environmentally introduced change in the wireless SAW response that can be detected by a readout device. An example of this type of sensor is described in the literature where the phase angle of a reflected signal is monitored as function of pressure or temperature using a network analyzer. See G. Scholl et al. This type of sensor response is good for monitoring pressure strain and torque but is limited by the expense and portability of the readout hardware. Further SAW devices typically operate at frequencies in the range of 100 MHz to several GHz making the monitoring of the phase and individual waves impractical for portable inexpensive systems.

Therefore a need remains for a wireless passive temperature sensor that can remotely measure the thermal profile and heat flow of a structure using a portable inexpensive transceiver.

The present invention is directed to a wireless passive temperature sensor comprising a surface acoustic wave delay line comprising a piezoelectric substrate having a thermal coefficient of frequency a launch interdigital transducer disposed on the surface of the piezoelectric substrate and adapted to launch a surface acoustic wave at a resonance frequency in the piezoelectric substrate when a RF electric field is applied across the launch interdigital transducer and a reflection interdigital transducer disposed in the acoustic path of and spaced a delay length from the launch interdigital transducer on the piezoelectric substrate and adapted to at least partially reflect the launched surface acoustic wave back to the launch interdigital transducer and an antenna adapted to receive a transmitted RF pulse and apply the RF electric field across the launch interdigital transducer to launch the surface acoustic wave and to retransmit an RF pulse from the reflected surface acoustic wave received by the launch interdigital transducer and wherein the delay time between the launched surface acoustic wave and the received reflected surface acoustic wave of the launch interdigital transducer is dependent on the thermal coefficient of frequency of the piezoelectric substrate. A remote burst transmitter can be adapted to transmit to the antenna the transmitted RF pulse with a carrier tuned to the resonance frequency of the launch interdigital transducer. A reader can be adapted to receive the retransmitted RF pulse from the antenna. An addressable array of such temperature sensors each with a different resonance frequency and or delay time can be pre positioned for spatial thermal measurement of a remote structure such as a satellite.

The wireless SAW based temperature sensor employs a relatively inexpensive pulsed radar type measurement but still allows monitoring of wide temperature ranges e.g. less that 60 C. to greater than 190 C. with uncertainties on the order of 0.9 C. In addition the sensor provides a primary measurement of the thermal coefficient of frequency of a substrate allowing the measurement to be made independently of the physical distance from the powered reader to the measurement tag within the limits of the signal to noise ratio. Sensors can be fabricated with different center frequency bands and transit delays allowing arrays of independent sensors to be deployed and measured. These SAW based sensors can be designed to operate in the 915 MHz industrial scientific and medical ISM band eliminating licensing issues for the readout hardware.

Two SAW temperature sensors with different frequency and or time delay responses can be placed on either side of a thermal conductor that has a well characterized thermal conductivity and thickness to provide a wireless passive heat flux gauge. Since the temperature of each side of the thermal conductor will be different if heat is flowing the different temperatures measured by the two sensors can be used to calculate the heat flux through the thermal conductor.

The wireless passive temperature sensor of the present invention is based on the change in minimum insertion loss of a SAW delay line that allows for large arrays of self identifying sensors to be pre positioned for thermal measurement of a structure. The sensors do not require batteries that add unacceptable mass to the structure or wires to retrieve the data enabling remote sensing. These sensors have a very linear response over a range of less than 60 C. to greater than 190 C. and allow wireless measurements that eliminate the mechanical and thermal disturbance that occur for hard wired systems. Variation of the SAW characteristic delay and center frequency allow the manufacture of inexpensive robust self identifying sensor element arrays that can be read using a single antenna and data acquisition system. Therefore a measurement method can use an array of these SAW based sensors and passive RF to measure the spatial temperature profile of a structural body such as a satellite or aero shell. The sensors have been demonstrated on several large mechanical structures and found to perform comparable to thermocouples.

Defining the thermal coefficient of frequency TCF for the resonance of the SAW delay line as follows a relationship between the temperature and the change in frequency as a function of temperature can be derived. See B. T. Sturtevant and M. Pereira da Cunha Assessment of the Langatate Material Constants and Temperature Coefficients Using SAW Delay Line Measurements 57 3 533 2010 .

Assuming small perturbations in the length and phase velocity over the range of temperature change and recognizing that the ratio of the change in acoustic path length to total acoustic path length is equivalent to the ratio between the change in acoustic wavelength and the nominal wavelength at the calibration temperature Eq. 2 can be rewritten as follows 

Values of the thermal coefficient of expansion TCE for LiNbOparallel to the Z axis are found to be temperature dependent and range from 0.75 10 K to 4.0 10 K. See J. S. Browder and S. S. Ballard Thermal Expansion Data for Eight Optical Materials for 60 K to 300 K 16 12 3214 1977 A. J. Slobodnik Jr. The Temperature Coefficients of Acoustic Surface Wave Velocity and Delay on Lithium Niobate Lithium Tantalate Quartz and Tellurium Dioxide Air Force Systems Command AFCRL 72 0082 22 Dec. 1972 pg. 95 and X. Xu et al. Anisotropic Thermal Expansion of Stoichiometric Lithium Niobate Crystals Grown Along the Normal Direction of Facets 26 489 2004 . The value of TCE depends on the particular cut of the LiNbOsingle crystal and if considered alone would predict a temperature coefficient of frequency of 3.6 KHz K which is significantly smaller than measured. For example consider a wafer cut with the Y axis perpendicular to the wafer and the SAW wave oriented parallel to the Z axis. Calculations of the expected TCF of this orientation were made using a SAW modeling code and were found to be on the order of 99 ppm K. See D. W. Branch and T. L. Edwards Love Wave Acoustic Array Biosensor Platform for Autonomous Detection IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium 260 1997 and D. W. Branch Hybrid Method for the Precise Calculation of the General Dyadic Greens Functions for the SAW and Leaky Wave Substrates Sandia National Laboratories Report. Albuquerque N. Mex. May 2008 SAND2008 2262 pp. 3 18. For SAW devices in the 900 MHz band the predicted value of f is approximately 0.089 MHz K which is more consistent with the measured value of 0.075 MHz K.

Exemplary SAW based sensors were fabricated using a typical photo lithography process on LiNbOcut orthogonal to the Y axis with the flat perpendicular to the Z axis. As shown in the propagation direction of the surface acoustic wave was parallel to the Z axis. See R. S. Weis and T. K. Gaylord Lithium Niobate Summary of Physicals Properties and Crystal Structure 37 191 1985 . The substrate was patterned with Au Al transducers. As shown in Table 1 the transducers on the five different sensors consisted of aluminum IDTs with finger spacing designed to operate at five different frequencies.

Therefore an addressable array of sensors with different resonance frequencies and or delay times can be used to uniquely measure the spatial temperature profile of a structural when the frequency bands and or delay times do not overlap within the temperature range of interest. Similar array measurements can be made by placing sensors at known points on a structure and then probing the particular point s temperature with no cross talk between points. Because the center band frequency and or time delay is used to identify the sensor all of the received energy can be used to the sensing measurement thereby improving the signal to noise of the sensor as compared to sensors that require a unique bit sequence for identification.

With this method of read out of the sensors is that the amplitude of the reflected pulse is only compared relative to the maximum amplitude as the frequency is varied over the band and is not compared to an absolute value. This allows each sensor to have a slightly differing insertion loss without effecting the measurement. Since the measurement is relative only to the maximum reflection amplitude on that sensor sensors at different ranges with different amplitudes of return can be measured using a single stationary antenna. In addition effects on accuracy and resolution of sensors with differing insertion loss due to variations in processing over the area of the wafer or from wafer to wafer are eliminated.

Examination of illustrates that there is some uncertainty in the frequency measurement that translates directly into uncertainty in the temperature for each of the sensors. The origin of this noise is in the discrete approach to acquiring the data from the scope at discrete frequencies from the RF generator. Typical measurements were made by programming the computer to scan through a series of frequencies and select the frequency with the maximum peak return amplitude. The rate at which the system could measure a sensor and determine its frequency was related to the size of each frequency step. A very fine frequency step results in a better measurement of the frequency of maximum return but requires more time to accomplish. This can be a problem if the temperature is drifting rapidly in time.

To decrease the measurement interval and improve the quality of the measurement a non linear least squares fit was done to a 2order polynomial around the amplitude vs. frequency peak. See M. G. Natrella National Bureau of Standards Handbook 91 United States Department of Commerce pp. 6 3 1963 . The derivative of the polynomial can be solved using the fitted parameters to estimate the frequency of maximum return. shows the improvement in the results for the 880 MHz sensor compared to the other four sensors which were not fitted using this technique. The uncertainty in the frequency is much less than the diameter of each data point. In the traces for the other sensor the uncertainty is larger.

Another feature of the plotted data occurs at temperatures below 20 C. where the data tends to become noisy. This effect is due to condensation of H2O onto the surface of the SAW delay line and the resulting increase in insertion loss of the sensor. With too much insertion loss the program has problems tracking and determining the frequency of maximum reflection resulting in noise. This problem can be solved using SAW delay lines that are packaged in hermetic sealed volumes with low frost points.

Using this data fit technique results from 224 measurements of one sensor at a single temperature of 24.8 C. were collected. This data is plotted in and illustrates the deviation from the mean over the sampling. The results are plotted as a histogram and fit to a Gaussian distribution in . The data of implies that the sources of noise in the experiment are uncorrelated and have their origin in the electronics and other thermal sources. The Gaussian fit indicates an uncertainty in the measurement on the order of 0.9 C.

As indicated above by producing sensors with different resonance frequencies and or delay times an addressable array of sensors can be assembled and read. For a large array of sensors a combination of time multiplexing and correlation can be employed to uniquely identify individual SAW sensors. This can be done by constructing correlator type transducers that are uniquely coded for identification of the SAW. Thus the combination of time delay and correlation allow for the unique identification of multiple devices and hence sensor points. This enables construction of large arrays of wireless passive sensors.

An issue can be the variation of the reflected pulse amplitude as a function of transmitter to SAW distance. is a schematic illustration of a temperature sensor with built in signal reference. An electric field can be applied wirelessly using a burst transmitter not shown operating with a carrier tuned to the resonance frequency of a receiving launch IDT and connecting the receiving transducer to an antenna . RF energy from the burst transmitter is captured by the antenna and converted into an electrical signal across the receiving transducer the induced mechanical strain will then launch acoustic waves and in both directions across the surface of the piezoelectric substrate . The surface acoustic wave is at least partially reflected by a sensor transducer in the acoustic path. The sensor transducer can be connected to a temperature sensor with variable impedance. A fixed amplitude reference is provided by a second IDT with fixed impedance. Therefore acoustic waves are launched in both directions and return at different times due to different delay path lengths from the opposing transducers and . In this example the first reflected pulse is received from the fixed transducer at an earlier time due to its shorter path length. The signal pulse is received from the sensor transducer at a later time and the ratio of the amplitudes of the two reflected pulses provides the power corrected signal from the sensor transducer. Therefore the ratio allows for compensation due to differences in transmitted RF power and distance of the sensor from the wireless transceiver.

Heat flux can be determined by measuring the temperature on both sides of a material that has a well characterized thermal conductivity. Combinations of SAW devices either with different resonant frequency time delay or both enables a wireless passive heat flux gauge as shown in . In this example two SAW temperature sensors and with different individual responses are placed on either side of a thermal conductor that has a well characterized thermal conductivity and thickness such as Kapton. Since the temperatures Tand Tof each side of the material will be different if heat is flowing two wireless temperature measurement sensors enables the calculation of the heat flux H according to 

The present invention has been described as a wireless passive temperature sensor. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

