---

title: Intelligent social collaboration hover card
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes generating a hover card associated with an entity in response to a user of a software application hovering a pointer over a reference to the entity within a graphical user interface (GUI) presented to the user by the software application. The hover card includes a photograph or icon representing the entity, a name of the entity, and a plurality of unified communications (UC) icons that are each configured to attempt to establish a particular type of communication session between the user and the entity. The method further includes presenting the hover card to the first user proximate to the pointer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938690&OS=08938690&RS=08938690
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08938690
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101115
---
An organization such as an enterprise may have many employees or other personnel at many locations. To effectively carry out their responsibilities personnel within the organization may need to communicate and collaborate with each other efficiently in a variety of ways using a variety of media. However such communication and collaboration may be cumbersome or otherwise difficult regardless of the where the personnel are located.

Personnel of organizations such as enterprises businesses corporations firms and other organizations typically need to communicate and collaborate with other personnel in the course of routine business operations. For example a group of employees at an enterprise may be assigned to work on a particular project. In the course of working on the assigned project the employees may wish to share documents or inquire about the status of another team member s progress on a particular task. To accomplish these and other tasks related to the project the team members may utilize various tools such as blogs wikis emails instant messaging and the like. However existing tools utilized for communicating and collaborating in an enterprise environment are disjunct cumbersome and are generally difficult to use for enterprise related activities. In addition existing tools utilized for communicating and collaborating in an enterprise environment may overwhelm users with information crowding and clutter. As a result the productivity of employees utilizing such tools may be hindered.

Particular embodiments provide a social collaboration and communication tool to increase the productivity of personnel of an organization.

In general one or more computer systems provide a system for social collaboration within an organization or an enterprise to users of clients . As used herein enterprise and enterprise may refer to any organization such as a business corporation firm government entity educational entity or any other organization regardless of the size of the organization. In some embodiments users of clients may refer to employees or personnel of enterprise who wish to communicate or collaborate with other employees or personnel of enterprise . While illustrates clients outside of enterprise some embodiments include certain clients that physically reside within enterprise . Embodiments of the disclosure include clients that may communicate with computer systems and other clients via network regardless of their physical location.

Clients may refer to any device that enables a user to interact with computer systems in order to communicate or collaborate with other users of system . In some embodiments clients may include a computer workstation telephone Internet browser electronic notebook Personal Digital Assistant PDA computer tablet or any other suitable device wireless wireline or otherwise component or element capable of receiving processing storing or communicating information with other components of system . In some embodiments for example clients may include a cellular telephone such as a smartphone a desktop computer a laptop computer or a digital telephone such as an IP enabled telephone. Clients may also comprise any suitable user interface such as a display . It will be understood that system may include any number and combination of clients .

In some embodiments clients may include a graphical user interface GUI . GUI generally tailors and filters data presented by computer systems to clients and accepts input from users of system that may be transmitted to computer systems . GUI may comprise a plurality of displays having message areas interactive fields pop ups pull down lists notification areas and buttons operated by user. GUI may include multiple levels of abstraction including groupings and boundaries. It should be understood that the term GUI may be used in the singular or in the plural to describe one or more GUIs and each of the displays of a particular GUI . GUI may provide users of system with an efficient and user friendly enterprise social collaboration and communications tool as described below in reference to .

Embodiments of system include one or more computer systems that perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be a virtual machine VM an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC e.g. a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a server an application server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In some embodiments computer system may execute any suitable operating system such as IBM s zSeries Operating System z OS MS DOS PC DOS MAC OS WINDOWS UNIX OpenVMS an operating system based on LINUX or any other appropriate operating system including future operating systems. In some embodiments computer system may be a web server running web server applications such as Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and the like.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program . As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute the instructions and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions such as computer program s for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source e.g. another computer system or network storage device to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor .

In certain embodiments instructions executed by processor may reside in one or more computer programs . Computer program generally refers to instructions logic rules algorithms code tables or other suitable instructions for performing the described functions and operations. In some embodiments computer programs may be stored in memory storage network storage device or any other location accessible to computer system . Where appropriate computer program may include one or more computer programs be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions such as computer program . As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape a Universal Serial Bus USB drive a solid state drive SSD or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storage devices . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. System may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication e.g. packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN e.g. a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network e.g. a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

In some embodiments network storage device may refer to any suitable device communicatively coupled to network and capable of storing and facilitating retrieval of data or instructions. Examples of network storage device include computer memory for example Random Access Memory RAM or Read Only Memory ROM mass storage media for example a hard disk removable storage media for example a Compact Disk CD or a Digital Video Disk DVD database or network storage for example a server or any other volatile or non volatile computer readable memory devices that store one or more files lists tables or other arrangements of information. In certain embodiments network storage device may be a SQL Server database an Oracle database and the like.

In certain embodiments network may refer to any interconnecting system capable of transmitting audio video signals data messages or any combination of the preceding. Network may include all or a portion of a public switched telephone network PSTN a public or private data network a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN a wide area network WAN a local regional or global communication or computer network such as the Internet a wireline or wireless network an enterprise intranet or any other suitable communication link including combinations thereof.

In operation computer systems provide an enterprise social collaboration tool to users of system via clients . For example discussed below illustrates a screenshot of an embodiment of GUI that users of system may utilize to communicate and collaborate with other users of system in an enterprise environment. Elements presented in GUI may be generated by one or more computer systems of enterprise by executing instructions such as one or more computer programs . For example discussed below illustrates an example embodiment of a computer program that may be utilized by one or more computer systems to generate content provided by GUI . In addition and discussed below illustrate particular embodiments of storage and network storage devices that may be utilized by one or more computer systems to generate content provided by GUI .

In certain embodiments application framework may refer to code or logic to manage portlets gadgets layer policy manager virtual data layer deployment infrastructure and any other portion of computer program in order to generally provide an enterprise social collaboration tool to users of system via clients . Application framework may utilize any appropriate standard protocol technology including but not limited to Java Specification Requests JSRs OpenSocial J2EE Spring Quartz Cisco Single Sign On SSO Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP BOSH and the like.

In certain embodiments computer program may include portlets gadgets layer . Portlets gadgets layer may include logic to provide users of system the ability to add delete drag and drop or rearrange various gadgets on GUI . In certain embodiments portlets gadgets layer may include one or more gadget applications one or more portlet applications and a portlet gadget manager not show . Gadgets that may be available on GUI may include any type of gadget such as any open social gadget. In certain embodiments portlets gadgets layer may utilize the Web Services for Remote Portlets WSRP protocol. In certain embodiments portlets gadgets layer may utilize WSRP for communications between for one portlet container and another portlet container in order to render the portlet running in a remote container on GUI .

In certain embodiments policy manager may refer to code logic to control implement and manage various policies utilized by computer program . For example policy manager may control how and when users of clients may view content created and shared by other users of clients . Embodiments of policy manager are described in more detail below with respect to .

In certain embodiments virtual data layer may provide computer program with the functionality to communicate with various data stores such as those stored in memory storage or network storage device . Particular embodiments of data stores in which virtual data layer may interface are described below in reference to . Virtual data layer may provide various functionality with respect to the data stores including but not limited to data store abstraction using Java Data Objects JDO content repository abstraction a video portal interface or semantic abstraction. Virtual data layer may utilize any appropriate standard protocol including but not limited to Java Database Connectivity JDBC Hibernate MemCacheD RDF2GO Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP and WebServices.

In certain embodiments computer program may additionally include a deployment infrastructure used to provide content to GUI on clients . Deployment infrastructure may utilize any appropriate standard protocol including but not limited to UCS Cisco ACE Cisco Wide Area Application Services WAAS VMWare and the like.

In certain embodiments virtual data layer of computer program provides an interface to various data stores in memory storage or network storage device . For example illustrates example data stores for social collaboration within an organization. As illustrated in certain embodiments of memory storage and network storage device may include a collaboration data store a document store and a social graph store . In certain embodiments data stores may reside in a SQL Server database an Oracle database a MySQL database an Apache Solr database a Java Content Repository JCR or any other appropriate repository. In certain embodiments data stores may be parallel data stores. While illustrates data stores residing in storage or network storage device it should be understood that data stores may be located anywhere accessible to computer system and may not necessarily all reside within the same location storage device.

In certain embodiments collaboration data store may refer to a main repository for data utilized by computer program in providing an enterprise social collaboration system and method according to the teachings of the disclosure. For example collaboration data store may store people i.e. users communities wiki content blog content or any other data generated by or associated with users of system . In certain embodiments collaboration data store may include data from an LDAP directory. In certain embodiments document store may refer to a repository for any document or attachment uploaded by users of system . For example any data file attached to an email blog wiki article and the like may be stored in document store . In certain embodiments social graph store may store data associated with connection between people users communities and information in system . Certain embodiments of social graph store are discussed in detail below in reference to .

In certain embodiments dynamic social graph includes one or more person nodes one or more community nodes one or more information nodes and connections representing relationships between person nodes community nodes and information nodes . Connections may include for example person to community connections person to information connections person to person connections community to community connections community to information connections and information to information connections as described below.

Person nodes represent people within an enterprise or connected enterprise that may form working relationships together by using dynamic social graph . For example people within an enterprise can be owners or members of a community. Additionally or alternatively people within an enterprise can publish information individually or as part of a community. Community nodes represent communities of interest teams or workgroups within an enterprise. In certain embodiments community nodes are owned by people within the enterprise and contain people and information. Information nodes represent any published information or unit of content within an enterprise. In certain embodiments information nodes have a person or community as an owner. Examples of information represented by information nodes include but are not limited to any format of groupware documents blogs wiki articles microblogs emails instant messages individual or group audio video transcripts voice messages and the like.

Dynamic social graph includes mappings between person nodes community nodes and information nodes based on the interrelationships among the users communities and units of content within an enterprise. A connection between a person and a community is represented in dynamic social graph by person to community connections . For example person to community connection may be added to dynamic social graph when person node becomes a member of community node . As another example person to community connection may be added to dynamic social graph when person node chooses to follow or favorite or follow community node . In certain embodiments person to community connections are expressed using friend of a friend FOAF vocabulary.

A connection between a person and information is represented in dynamic social graph by person to information connections . For example person to information connection may be added to dynamic social graph when person node posts a comment about information node . As another example person to community connection may be added to dynamic social graph when person node authors content represented by information node . In general person to information connection may be added to dynamic social graph when a person node performs any action within system on any information node such as a blog a wiki page a discussion forum entry a task an action item a tag a category and the like. In certain embodiments person to information connections are expressed using semantically interlinked online communities project SIOC vocabulary.

A connection between a person and another person is represented in dynamic social graph by person to person connections . For example person to person connection may be added to dynamic social graph when person node chooses to follow or favorite person node . As another example person to person connection may be added to dynamic social graph to indicate that person node reports to person node . In certain embodiments person to person connections may be added to dynamic social graph by retrieving information from a LDAP directory. For example information in an LDAP directory may be used to populate dynamic social graph with person to person connections in order to capture a reporting structure of an organization i.e. who reports to who the members of a workgroup or team or any other relationship between employees of an organization. In certain embodiments person to person connections are expressed using FOAF vocabulary.

A connection between a community and another community is represented in dynamic social graph by community to community connections . For example community to community connection may be added to dynamic social graph when it is determined that community node is related to community node . In one embodiment for example it may be determined that community node is related to community node by determining the members of each of the community nodes and then determining that a predetermined percentage of the members of community node are also members of community node . In some embodiments it may be determined that community node is related to community node by analyzing the connections to each of the nodes and determining that each of the nodes have similar or overlapping connections.

A connection between a community and information is represented in dynamic social graph by community to information connections . For example community to information connections may be added to dynamic social graph when it is determined that community node has created content represented by information node . For example when a member of community node creates a wiki page represented by information node that may be edited by all members of community node community to information connection may be added to dynamic social graph to indicate that community has the associated wiki page.

A connection between an information node and another information node is represented in dynamic social graph by information to information connections . For example information to information connections may be added to dynamic social graph when it is determined that information node is related to information node . In one embodiment for example it may be determined that information node is related to information node by determining one or more topics associated with each of the nodes and then determining that the topics are related. In some embodiments it may be determined that information node is related to information node by considering the Description of a Project DOAP ontology.

In certain embodiments person to person connections and the other connections of dynamic social graph may be expressed using the foaf knows property. For example if Bob has some defined relationship with John dynamic social graph may record this relationship using the Bob foaf knows John vocabulary. In certain embodiments dynamic social graph may utilize extensions using the RELATIONSHIP vocabulary. For example if Bob works with John dynamic social graph may record this relationship using the Bob rel worksWith John vocabulary. In certain embodiments RDFS inferencing may be utilized to answer queries using foaf knows when people use rel alternatives.

As described above dynamic social graph may be stored in social graph store . In certain embodiments social graph store may include a Resource Description Framework RDF store and computer program may utilize the SPARQL Protocol and RDF Query Language SPARQL to retrieve content from social graph store . For example illustrates an example data store for a dynamic social graph. In certain embodiments social graph store utilizes RDF. In this embodiment connections of are stored in social graph store as collections of triples that create a labeled graph of relations between resources and literal values. Each triple includes a subject a predicate and an object . As an example if a user Bob joins community A triple may be created in social graph store with a subject of Bob a predicate of joined or similar and an object of community A. As another example if a user Bob reports to John triple may be created in social graph store with a subject of Bob a predicate of reports to or similar and an object of John. As a result a schema less data model is implemented that features unambiguous identifiers and named relations between pairs of resources.

In operation dynamic social graph grows in real time as users of system add relationships and content. As an example if user Bob creates a new blog entry and publishes it multiple nodes and connections will be added to dynamic social graph in real time. In this example a person node is added to dynamic social graph if Bob has not had any interaction or activity with system in the past. However if a person node representing Bob already exists in dynamic social graph no new person node will be created for Bob. In addition an information node is added to dynamic social graph that represents the new blog entry. Finally a person to information connection is added to dynamic social graph between Bob s person node and the new blog entry s information node to indicate that Bob authored the new blog entry. As a result Bob s relationship with the new blog entry is recorded in dynamic social graph and may be immediately available to computer program .

In certain embodiments a search engine such as SOLR or FAST may be used to index data within dynamic social graph in order to improve the performance of searches of the graph. In general dynamic social graph may be used as a platform to promote linked searches and recommendations by matching people communities and information in any combination. The use of dynamic social graph in this way promotes collaboration in an organization by enabling users to search or navigate the graph to get to relevant solutions. For example consider an example where a user is seeking an answer to the question What version of Product XYZ supports feature A In this example the user might perform a search using the search terms Product XYZ feature A. Dynamic social graph allows such a search to display not only information associated with these search terms but also allows the discovery and display of the people who created this information and communities in which the information is maintained. As a result dynamic social graph reduces the need for explicit searches for multiple entities by allowing a search result to return related data.

In certain embodiments results of the searches performed on dynamic social graph may be passed through a policy filter where only the proper results are shown to the user according to a corresponding policy. One embodiment of a policy engine that may be utilized to filter the search results is discussed below in reference to . In certain embodiments other factors or contextual information may be utilized in searching dynamic social graph . As an example the GPS location of the searching user may be input as an element of the search criteria filter. In this example if user Bob s GPS location is currently in San Jose then the search results could return users who are physically in San Jose or within a certain distance thereof. In another example the current status of users can be used as an additional search criteria filter in searching dynamic social graph . For example if Bob is looking for an expert in Java then he may be returned a list of such experts current status is available thus indicating to Bob that he may attempt to contact them immediately.

At step a social graph for the collaboration network is generated. In certain embodiments the social graph generated in step is an RDF graph. In certain embodiments the social graph generated in step includes a plurality of nodes that each represent one of the users one of the communities or one of the units of content. In certain embodiments the nodes of the social graph generated in step are nodes as illustrated in and described above. In certain embodiments the social graph generated in step includes a mapping of the nodes to each other based on the interrelationships among the users communities and units of content. For example the mapping may include connections described above.

At step the social graph generated in step is dynamically updated as the interrelationships change. For example the social graph generated in step may be dynamically updated when a person such as person node becomes a member of a community such as community node . As another example person to community connection may be added to dynamic social graph when person node chooses to follow or favorite community node

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In typical social collaboration systems users utilize different tools in order to publish content in multiple different formats. For example users typically utilize a wiki tool in order to author or edit a wiki page a blog tool to author or edit a blog entry a discussion forum tool to author or edit a discussion entry and the like. Typical social collaboration systems however have many limitations and drawbacks especially in the enterprise social networking context. First users may become confused in selecting an appropriate tool for a particular job. Users may not be aware about the difference between wikis blogs and discussion forums and therefore may be confused as to which tool to utilize. Second once content is created in one of the various formats it is not convenient or practical to convert the content into one of the other formats. For example once a blog entry is published a user may then wish to convert the blog entry into a wiki so that other users may edit it. As another example content that begins as a discussion may need to be promoted to an official blog post when the group has converged on a discussion. Typical collaboration systems however do not allow users to easily convert from one format to another. Finally typical wiki blog and discussion forum applications are usually contained within a community and cannot be shared across communities except by cross posting. This however creates duplication of content and thus creates unnecessary storage requirements.

The teachings of the disclosure recognize that it would be desirable to provide a unified content model that addresses the above limitations of existing social collaboration systems. below illustrate a unified content model according to the teachings of the disclosure that allows easy sharing of content across multiple people and communities.

In operation a user may create a post by utilizing GUI on any client . An example embodiment of GUI that a user may utilize to create a post is illustrated below in reference to . Posts allow a user to create a single multi media unit of content having a title and a body without worrying about choosing a particular tool and format. After creating the post but prior to publication a user may then simply specify access parameters for post in order to control how post behaves in system . Example access parameters for posts include choosing people and communities who will be allowed to access post and view comment edit and share permissions for each person community.

Title input area may refer to any appropriate input area where a user may enter text as a title of post . Content input area may refer to any appropriate input area where a user may enter text as the content of post . For example if a user wishes to create a wiki page blog entry or discussion forum entry having a title of Company XYZ s Product List the user may first enter this title in title input area . The user may then input the appropriate content for this subject in content input area . In certain embodiments content input area may additionally include icons not shown for formatting content that is entered into content input area . For example content input area may include one or more icons to format the appearance of the text in content input area an icon to insert a video into content input area an icon to add or delete a hyperlink in content input area and the like.

Add link icon may refer to an icon hyperlink or button on webpage that a user may push in order to attach to post a link to another webpage. Upload file icon may refer to an icon hyperlink or button on webpage that a user may push in order to attach to post a file such as a document or spreadsheet. Tag input area may refer to an area where a user may assign a tag to post . In certain embodiments a tag entered into tag input area may be a tag created by a user or a tag selected from a drop down list.

Edit sharing options icon refers to an icon hyperlink or button on webpage that a user may select in order to edit access options for post . As an example illustrates an example GUI for controlling access to content for social collaboration within an organization. illustrates one embodiment of a post access options interface that may be utilized to control access to post . Post access options interface may be implemented as a pop up on webpage and may appear when a user selects edit sharing options icon . Post access options interface includes one or more policies and one or more options as described below.

Each policy may refer to access options for a particular entity within the enterprise such as another user or community. Each policy may include a destination and one or more attributes . Destination may refer to an entity within the enterprise that the particular policy is directed to. In some embodiments for example destination may be a community a contact of the sender or any other user within the enterprise that the sender has a connection to. Attributes may refer to various options that the author of post may select in order to control how the entity of destination will have access to post . Example attributes may include a view attribute that allows destination to view post a share attribute that allows destination to share post with other entities a comment attribute that allows destination to comment on post and an edit attribute that allows destination to edit post .

In certain embodiments post access options interface may include one or more options . For example some embodiments may include a check box option that the author of post may select in order to allow anyone within the enterprise to view and comment on post . Some embodiments may include a check box option that will enable the sending of an email notification to selected contacts groups. Some embodiments may include a check box option that will save the selected options selections as default settings for future posts .

In certain embodiments posts may be created for any unit of content that a user wishes to share with another user without utilizing webpage . For example any unit of content such as a bookmark an image a document a video and the like may be shared using posts . To do so a simpler webpage than illustrated in may be presented to the user that does not include title input area content input area and the like. Instead the user may be presented with a webpage that simply allows the user to provide the unit of content such as a bookmark an image a document a video and the like. Then computer system may in the background create a post that only includes the provided unit of content and store the created post in a data store such as collaboration data store .

In operation a user controls whether post behaves like one or more of a wiki blog and discussion forum within system by selecting access options using post access options interface . For example a user may create a post by first entering a title such as Company XYZ s Product List in title input area on webpage . The user may then input the appropriate content for post in content input area . Optionally the user may also add a link to post using add link icon attach a file to post using upload file icon or add a tag to post using tag input area . Once post is ready for publishing the user may then select edit sharing options icon in order to view post access options interface and select access options for post . Based on the selected access options post may have the characteristics of a wiki blog or discussion forum any may simultaneously behave like one or more of these for different sets of people.

As one example a user may wish to create a post that behaves like a blog. In this example the user may select check box option to allow everyone to view and comment on post and de select all other attributes . If however the user wishes to create a post that behaves like a blog but is viewable only to Community B the user may only select view attribute share attribute and comment attribute for Community B as illustrated in policy

As another example a user may wish that post behave additionally alternatively as a wiki page for Community C. In this example the user may select view attribute comment attribute and edit attribute for Community C as illustrated in policy . As a result post will behave like a wiki page to Community C wherein all members of Community C will be able to view and edit post .

As another example a user may wish that post behave additionally alternatively as a discussion forum for Community A. In this example the user may select view attribute and comment attribute for Community A as illustrated in policy . As a result post will behave like a discussion forum to Community A wherein all members of Community A will be able to view and comment on post .

As another example a user may wish that post be additionally alternatively sent to user John Doe as a message. In this example the user may select view attribute for John Doe as illustrated in policy . As a result post will behave like an email message to John Doe. This example illustrates one advantage of posts over typical email messages. Here the user chose not to allow John Doe to share post with anyone else by not selecting share attribute . Typical email messages however do not allow a user to control how an email message is shared and thus any recipient of a typical email message may forward the email message to anyone he chooses.

By utilizing attributes and policies of post access options interface a user may have explicit control over who has access to post . As a result posts may take the form of a wiki page a blog entry or a discussion forum and may simultaneously behave like one or more of these for different sets of people. In addition unlike typical solutions that create multiple copies of content in order to implement cross posting of content to multiple entities system stores a single copy of post using a single code base and data schema and then applies one or more policies in order to make post available to more than one entity. As a result posts may be cross posted to more than one entity with minimal data storage requirements.

At step a format for presentation of the unit of content of step is determined based at least in part on the permission levels indicated for the other users in the collaboration network allowed to access the unit of content. For example if the unit of content has permission levels that allow a community to edit the content it may be determined that the format of the unit of content should be a wiki page. As another example if the unit of content has permission levels that allow everyone to view and comments on the content it may be determined that the format of the unit of content should be a blog. In certain embodiments the determined format may be a wiki a blog or a discussion forum.

At step the unit of content and the title for the unit of content is published to the collaboration network in the format determined in step and according to the information received in step . For example if the format for the unit of content is determined in step to be a blog the unit of content and the title is published as a blog.

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

As discussed above users of system may utilize GUI on clients to communicate and collaborate with other users of system in an enterprise environment. For example illustrates an example GUI for social collaboration within an organization. illustrates one embodiment of a webpage that may be displayed in any appropriate internet browser including but not limited to Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox Google Chrome Apple Safari Opera a browser of a smartphone or any other appropriate browser. Webpage may provide a social collaboration and communications tool to users of clients according to teaching of the disclosure.

 Web 2.0 and existing social media applications are typically used to produce share and consume content. Users may post content using wikis blogs discussion forums and other similar mechanisms. In one example social media applications such as Facebook and Myspace allow users to publish content for consumption by friends and contacts of the user. However current social media applications have several limitations especially in the enterprise social networking context. As an example the organization of the data in existing social media applications is often static and does not reflect the dynamic nature of the users needs. As another example users are typically overwhelmed with information crowding and clutter even though the only content that is explicitly shared with the user is presented. This is due to the fact that there is a dramatic amount of information flowing to the user from a variety of sources such as friends professional contacts communities and other mechanisms. As a result of this large amount of presented data users of typical social media applications may get easily distracted and may find it hard to discern what information is important and needs attention.

To address these and other problems associated with existing social media applications in an enterprise social networking context webpage includes various components that identify organize and dynamically update information presented to a user based on actions activities or events that occur in the system. In certain embodiments webpage includes a microblog a post icon and various widgets . Microblog is a portlet gadget that allows the user to easily author and publish a microblog. Embodiments of microblog are described below in reference to . Post icon refers to an icon or button within webpage that when selected provides the user with an interface to author and publish posts as described above. For example webpage may be presented to the user in some embodiments when post button is selected.

Widgets may refer to any widget gadget enabled by computer program . In certain embodiments the user may be able to browse and select numerous gadgets portlets from a list of gadgets portlets in which to add to webpage . For example in the illustrated embodiment of webpage of the user has been presented with a watchlist widget a calendar widget an alert widget and a requests widget . Watchlist widget refers to a widget gadget that organizes and prominently displays a variety of content that is relevant to the user. Particular embodiments of watchlist widget are described below in reference to . Calendar widget refers to a widget gadget that displays the user s calendar. Alerts widget refers to a widget gadget that displays various alerts to the user. Requests widget refers to a widget gadget that allows the user to manage various requests from other users of system .

While illustrates a particular arrangement of microblog post icon and widgets other embodiments of webpage may have any appropriate arrangement selection and design of microblog post icon and widgets . For example widgets may include other widgets gadgets and may be dragged and dropped by the user to various locations within webpage .

To address these and other problems associated with existing systems certain embodiments of watchlist quickly organize and bubble up a variety of content that is relevant to the user. In certain embodiments watchlist stays constantly updated through mechanisms such as asynchronous notifications for new incoming information that may be relevant to the user. In certain embodiments watchlist reorganizes itself to display context sensitive information in response to new events that happen within the overall system such as an incoming call or IM from another person or a notification arriving either internally or externally through Open APIs. In some embodiments watchlist may be prominently displayed on webpage in order to allow a user to easily and quickly locate the content that is relevant to the user.

In some embodiments watchlist includes a main display area two or more tabs watched items and a navigation bar . While watchlist illustrates a particular arrangement of tabs watched items and navigation bar other embodiments may have any appropriate arrangement and design of tabs watched items and navigation bar .

Watchlist displays watched items that are relevant to the user based on certain criteria. In general watched items begin appearing in watchlist if either the user interacts with a post or another entity within system or when another user within system directly addresses an object such as a post to the user. For example watched item may appear in a user s watchlist when another user directly and explicitly shares content such as post with the user when the user creates a post when the user comments or edits a post and then other users comment on or edit that particular post when the user chooses to follow or favorite another user and then that user performs some action such as editing or commenting on a post or publishing a blog when the user chooses to follow or favorite a post when a post is created that has a specific tag that is relevant to the user or when system determines that a specific number of other users within a certain social distance of the user are watching a post other user or community. In certain embodiments any change or update to a particular watched item will automatically cause watchlist to track the change and move the particular watched item to the top of main display area i.e. bubble up thereby providing the user with a consistently updated list of content that is relevant to his interests.

In some embodiments watched items may include an author badge a title a content summary a numeric badge a time indication an author indication and an action indication . In certain embodiments author badge may be an image a video or any other visual indication of the author or editor of watched item . For example and for illustrative purposes only watched item may be in response to a message sent to the user from user John Doe. In this example author badge may be an image or video of John Doe that was selected by John Doe to represent himself. As another example watched item may be in response to a watched post being edited by user Jane Doe. In this example author badge may be an image or video of Jane Doe that was selected by Jane Doe to represent herself.

In certain embodiments title may be a title of the content of watched item . In some embodiments title may also include a hyperlink to the content associated with watched item . For example title may be the title of a post that watched item is associated with. In this example post associated with watched item has a title of Company XYZ s Product List. Therefore title is Company XYZ s Product List and may be a link to post associated with watched item

In certain embodiments content summary may be a brief summary of the content associated with watched item . For example content summary may be a summary of post associated with watched item . In some embodiments the content displayed in content summary may be the first few lines of the content associated with watched item . In some embodiments content summary may include a thumbnail of a video or image a summary of a linked page or an icon that represents the document type.

In some embodiments numeric badge indicates the number of updates that have occurred to the content associated with watched item since the last time the user viewed that content. As a result the user is provided an indication of how active the content has been. For example numeric badge may be 2 to indicate that the content associated with watched item has been updated twice since the last time the user viewed the content associated with watched item . In some embodiments the updates to associated content may include a new comment by a user a new edit to post the content being favorited or shared by another user and the like.

In certain embodiments time indication may indicate the time that the content associated with watched item was authored or edited author indication may indicate the name of the author or editor and action indication may indicate the type of action that was performed by the author or editor. For example watched item may include time indication of 12 45 PM author indication of John Doe and action indication of said to indicate to the user that John Doe sent the comment to the user at 12 45 PM. Likewise watched item may include time indication of July 10 author indication of Jane Doe and action indication of edited a post to indicate to the user that Jane Doe edited post associated with watched item on July 10.

In some embodiments watchlist will automatically update without intervention from the user. For example certain embodiments will automatically update without requiring a page refresh from the user when a watched user performs a qualified action. In some embodiments this may be achieved by having asynchronous notifications being sent by a server through notification mechanisms such as XMPP and the like. As a result watchlist stays updated with new content even if the user has not refreshed the browser.

In some embodiments watchlist may dynamically reorganize watched items and display context sensitive content based on other internal or external scheduled or unscheduled notifications or events in the system. In one embodiment for example watchlist may automatically reorganize watched items based on upcoming meetings in the user s calendar in order to display content that is relevant to the scheduled meeting. In another example if the user receives an incoming call chat request email or the like from another user watchlist may reorganize watched items in order to display at the top of main display area any watched items that are associated with the user who is calling. In some embodiments watchlist may automatically display at the top of main display area any watched items that were shared or last edited by the user who is calling requesting a chat emailing or the like. In some embodiments watchlist may order watched items based on the order in which they were received or updated. In certain embodiments the most recent watched item is shown at the top of main display area .

In some embodiments events that cause watchlist to dynamically reorganize watched items may be received through Open APIs by external entities and systems. For example external notifications may be received from another application such as a procurement application and the like. In this example the received external notification may be a purchase requisition from one of the user s employees. Based on this received external notification watchlist may reorganize watched items in order to display particular watched items that might be relevant to the item being purchased or content that the purchaser has authored or edited.

In some embodiments two or more tabs may be included in watchlist . In one embodiment for example tab may be an Overview tab and tab may be a Messages tab. In this embodiment overview tab when selected may display all watched items regardless of content. Messages tab when selected may display only watched items related to messages specifically shared with the user. While two tabs and have been illustrated in it should be noted that any number and combination of tabs may be utilized in watchlist to filter and control the display of watched items .

In some embodiments navigation bar may be included to control the display of watched items . In some embodiments for example navigation bar may include forward and back arrows to allow the user to page forward and backward through watched items . In some embodiments navigation bar may include an indication of the total number of pages of watched items and the current page being viewed. In the illustrated embodiment for example the total number of pages of watched items is indicated by four unfilled circles and the current page being viewed is indicated by a filled circle. In some embodiments navigation may be facilitated through a vertical scroll bar not shown on the right side of main display area . In these embodiments the user may scroll down to reveal more watched items . Although a fixed number e.g. 20 of watched items may be initially loaded upon reaching the last watched item e.g. the 20watched item an additional number of watched items e.g. another 20 will be automatically loaded. In some embodiments the user may request to load an additional number of watched items by clicking on a Show more link not illustrated .

In some embodiments watchlist may be directed to a particular community instead of a particular user. For example watchlist may be configured to display content that is being watched by all the members of the community. In these embodiments watched items for each member of the community are aggregated and then displayed and updated in watchlist as described above.

In certain embodiments watchlist may include a searching function that allows a user to search and locate watched items . In certain embodiments for example a user may search for watched items related to a specific entity such as another user or community. In another example a user may search for watched items having a specific topic or title. In another example a user may search for watched items using one or more key words.

Watchlist thus provides numerous advantages over traditional social media applications. For example a user is not required to search through a voluminous amount of data in order to locate content that is relevant to the user or that requires the user s attention. Instead content that is explicitly shared or followed as well as content that is determined to be relevant is made readily available to the user. The content is placed in a prominent location on webpage thus providing quick access to content that is relevant or that is being actively followed. In addition the number of updates that have occurred to the content since it was last viewed by the user may be displayed thus providing an indication of how active that content is based on updates or comments from other users. Furthermore watchlist may automatically reorganize watched items based on received events or notifications in order to prominently display content that is sensitive to the received event or notification. In some embodiments watchlist updates and reorganizes watched items without requiring a page refresh from the user.

At step asynchronous notifications of second content for inclusion in the watchlist are received. In certain embodiments the asynchronous notifications of second content are received automatically and without input from the first user. In certain embodiments this may refer to the receiving the asynchronous notifications of second content without the first user refreshing a web browser. In certain embodiments the second content is related to one or more second events occurring after the first events. In certain embodiments each of the first and second content are a post by one of the one or more other users a message from one of the one or more other users or an activity by one of the one or more other users.

At step the watchlist is updated to include the second content. In certain embodiments the updating occurs automatically and without input from the first user. In certain embodiments the update includes organizing the watchlist with the first and second content to visually indicate an order of relevance of the first and second content to the first user. In certain embodiments the watchlist is organized with the most recent content appearing at the top of the watchlist.

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In some embodiments microblog includes a user badge a user name a status indicator a microblog message area a control box and a character indicator . While illustrates a particular arrangement of user badge user name status indicator microblog message area control box and character indicator other embodiments of microblog may have any appropriate arrangement and design of user badge user name status indicator microblog message area control box and character indicator .

In some embodiments microblog includes user badge that may be an image a video or any other visual indication of the user who is creating a microblog. In some embodiments user badge is similar to author badge discussed above in reference to . In some embodiments microblog includes user name to indicate the name of the user creating a microblog. Microblog may additionally include status indicator that indicates the current status of the user. For example status indicator may be available to indicate that the user is available for a chat call meeting IM and the like. In some embodiments status indicator may additionally be clicked by the user in order to display a drop down list of status indicators for the user to choose.

In some embodiments microblog message area refers to a text entry box that allows the user to input a microblog message. In some embodiments the microblog message entered in message area may be limited to 140 characters. Microblog may additionally include character indicator that automatically updates as the user types in message area in order to indicate how many characters are remaining before a character limit is reached.

In some embodiments microblog includes control box that allows the user to control whether the microblog message entered into message area is additionally posted external to the organization such as to the internet. In some embodiments control box allows the user to select to additionally post the microblog message entered into message area to services such as Twitter and the like.

In certain embodiments microblog provides an intelligent and flexible way for the microblog s sender to restrict the scope of access to a given microblog prior to it being sent posted. In some embodiments the scope of access to a given microblog may be restricted by allowing the sender of a microblog to attach a Microblog Scoping Policy MSP to a microblog before it is sent posted. illustrates one example of an MSP interface that may be utilized to restrict the scope of access to a given microblog. MSP interface may be implemented as a pop up on webpage and may include one or more policies and one or more options . In some embodiments MSP interface may appear on webpage immediately before a microblog is posted and may automatically list entities such as other users and communities within the enterprise and access options for each entity.

In some embodiments each policy may include a destination and one or more attributes . Destination may refer to an entity within the enterprise that the particular policy is directed to. In some embodiments for example destination may be a community a contact of the sender or any other user within the enterprise that the sender has a connection to or social relationship with. Attributes may refer to various options that the sender of the microblog may select in order to control how the entity of destination will have access to the microblog. Example attributes may include a view attribute a comment attribute and a share attribute . In some embodiments attributes may additionally include time date options that allow the sender to control access to the microblog according to a specific date or time.

In certain embodiments MSP interface may include one or more options . For example some embodiments may include a check box option that the sender of the microblog may select in order to allow anyone within the enterprise to view and comment on the microblog. Some embodiments may include a check box option that will enable the sending of an email notification to selected contacts groups. Some embodiments may include a check box option that will save the selected options selections as default settings for future microblogs.

In operation a user within an enterprise may initiate the sending posting of a microblog by first typing a short microblog message into microblog message area . In some embodiments a user may optionally select via control box whether to post the microblog outside the enterprise such as to the internet as described above. While typing in microblog message area the user may be given a visual indication via character indicator of the amount of the amount of characters remaining before a character limit is reached.

After the user has composed a microblog message in microblog message area but before the microblog message is sent posted the user may be presented with or may optionally reveal MSP interface that may be utilized to create an MSP that will restrict the scope of access to the microblog. The illustrated MSP interface includes one or more policies that allow the user to tailor the access privileges for various entities within the enterprise. As an example for illustrative purposes only the user may be presented with MSP interface as illustrated in . MSP interface includes three policies policy which is directed to a destination of Community A within the enterprise policy which is directed to a destination of Community B within the enterprise and policy which is directed to a destination of Community C within the enterprise. In some embodiments MSP interface automatically populates available destinations according to connections to the user using social graph described above in reference to . For example MSP interface may allow a user to post a microblog to everyone who is a friend of his everyone who is a friend of a friend or people within certain communities that have certain expertise or interest according to their social graph.

After being presented with MSP interface the sender of the microblog may select attributes in order to control how particular destinations will have access to the microblog. For example the sender may decide to only allow Community B access to the microblog. Furthermore the sender may decide that Community B should be able to share the microblog. Accordingly the sender may select view attribute comment attribute and share attribute as illustrated in policy . In another example the sender may decide that anyone may access the microblog. Accordingly the user may select check box option as illustrated in .

After the sender makes the desired selections regarding who and how the microblog may be accessed a corresponding MSP may generated and transported along with the microblog to computer system for processing. Once computer system receives the MSP it may be enforced by a policy engine as described below in reference to . Computer system may consult the policy engine first and get clearance for a given user community or contact before it will allow access to a particular microblog according to that microblog s associated MSP.

In some embodiments computer system may selectively allow microblogs posted within an enterprise to also go outside the enterprise and be viewable by the general public on networks such as the internet. In some embodiments for example that status of control box may be utilized by computer system to control whether a microblog will pass through a gateway that ensures that one or more criteria is met before allowing the microblog to be transmitted external to the enterprise. For example system administrators or users may define criteria or policies that get enforced by a policy engine as described below in reference to . An example policy may include a policy to ensure that a microblog does not contain any prohibited language before it goes outside the enterprise. Another example policy may be a policy that ensures that no financial information is being shared immediately before a company s quarterly earnings announcement.

In some embodiments MSPs may be shared between users so that a user does not have to recreate MSPs that have already been created by someone else. For example a user may select to utilize an MSP that was previously created by a system administrator a friend a particular community or any other entity within the enterprise. In some embodiments MSP interface may present a list of shared or save MSPs that are available to the sender.

As a result a sender of a microblog can define a very simple MSP or may create a sophisticated MSP wherein different entities have different access options. For example a sender may create a simple MSP that limits access to members of a particular social community or the sender can create a more sophisticated MSP such as an MSP that allows access to members of Communities A and B who have been members of those communities before a specific date and who are friends of a specific user in Community C. In general MSPs may range from being trivially simple and easy to use to all the way being very sophisticated and powerful with all the capability and flexibility provided by a script or a programming language.

In some embodiments a microblog message created with microblog may be stored as a post . For example text entered into microblog message area may be mapped to the content of a post as if it were entered using content input area . In some embodiments the sharing options of post such as policies may be automatically mapped according to appropriate sharing settings of a microblog. In some embodiments if an item such as a video image or document is shared in a microblog message such items may be mapped to the attachments or links of a post as would typically be accomplished using add link icon or upload file icon as described above. In some embodiments titles of microblog messages may be inferred from filenames of attached items such as a video image or document.

At step a selection of one or more of the selectable permissions for each of one or more of the potential destinations is received from the user. In certain embodiments the user may utilize a client in order to transmit the selection of one or more of the selectable permissions to computer system and computer program .

At step the microblog post is posted to the collaboration network according to the selectable permissions selected by the user for the potential destinations. For example if the user selected an option to allow everyone to view and comment on the microblog the microblog may appear to everyone with a connection to the user according to social graph . As another example if the user selected permissions to only allow a particular community to view the microblog the microblog may appear to all members of the particular community. In certain embodiments the microblog post may additionally be posted to a network outside of the collaboration network based on an indication from the user.

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

As discussed above embodiments of webpage include tools to collaborate and interact with other users and communities within a user s social network. As such webpage includes various links to other users and communities. For example webpage may include numerous instances of links to other entities such as author badge author indication and the like. To provide a convenient way to further interact with another user or community that is represented by one of these links certain embodiments of webpage include a contact hover card that may appear on webpage when a user hovers over a link to another entity. illustrates one embodiment of webpage that may include a contact hover card . In certain embodiments contact hover card may appear on webpage proximate to a pointer when a user hovers pointer over another entity such as a link to or picture of another user or community within the enterprise.

Embodiments of contact hover card provide numerous advantages over existing systems. For example while existing systems may provide directory information regarding another user this information is typically static and unintelligent. Contact hover card however provides near real time information about the hovered upon entity. In addition Contact hover card provides a dynamic set of tools that allow the hovering user to interact and collaborate with the hovered upon entity. In some embodiments for example these dynamic tools may include dynamically created icons that may be used for click to call click to IM click to meeting and the like. Additionally some embodiments of contact hover card may include dynamically generated information about the hovered upon entity that is based on contextual information. In general embodiments of contact hover card provide a dynamic and intelligent set of information that enables a rich and productive interaction between the hovering user and the hovered upon entity. One embodiment of contact hover card is illustrated below in reference to .

In certain embodiments entity badge may be an image a video or any other visual indication of entity that the user is hovering over with pointer . In some embodiments entity badge is similar to author badge discussed above in reference to . Entity name may be any indication of the name of entity that the user is hovering over with pointer . In some embodiments entity name may additionally be a hyperlink to additional information about entity . Status indicator may be any indications of the current status of entity . For example status indicator may be available to indicate that entity is online or available for a chat call IM meeting and the like. Title may be any title of entity . In certain embodiments title may be a formal title of entity within the organization such as Vice President a label describing entity s role within a community or group or an alias of entity such as handle or pseudonym. In some embodiments a user defined title may also be shown in addition to or in place of a system defined title. Entity identification may be an indication of an identification ID of entity . For example entity identification may be a user ID system ID community ID or any other appropriate ID of entity used by computer system to identify entity .

In some embodiments contact hover card includes microblog display . Microblog display may display a recent microblog authored by entity . For example once a first user enters a microblog in microblog message area of webpage it may then appear in contact hover card in microblog display when a second user hovers pointer over entity corresponding to the first user. In some embodiments microblog display may additionally indicate a date of when recent microblog was authored by entity .

In some embodiments contact hover card includes one or more contact icons that provide the user a convenient way to manage contact options for entity . In some embodiments for example contact icons may include one or both of an add to contacts icon and a follow contact icon . Add to contacts icon may refer to an icon that may be pressed in order to add entity to the user s contact list. This may allow for example the user to quickly locate contact information regarding entity in an address book directory and the like. Follow contact icon may refer to an icon that may be pressed in order to follow an entity . For example if entity is another user follow contact icon may be pressed in order to follow that user and then see various activities from them. This may result for example in any new activity by the followed user appearing in the user s watchlist such as watchlist described above.

In some embodiments contact icons are dynamically created according to certain contextual information. For example before add to contacts icon is presented in contact hover card to a user computer system may determine whether entity is already a contact of the user. If entity is already a contact of the user add to contacts icon may be disabled by for example appearing grayed out. If however it is determined that entity is not already a contact of the user add to contacts icon may be enabled and will function as described above. As another example before follow contact icon is presented in contact hover card to a hovering user computer system may determine whether entity has already been selected to be followed by the user. If entity has already been selected to be followed by the user follow contact icon may be disabled. If however it is determined that entity has not been selected to be followed by the user follow contact icon may be enabled and will function as described above.

In some embodiments contact hover card includes one or more UC icons that may provide a richer and more productive interaction between the hovering and hovered upon users. In some embodiments for example UC icons may include one or more of a click to chat UC icon a click to talk UC icon and a click to meet UC icon . While illustrates a particular arrangement of click to chat UC icon click to talk UC icon and click to meet UC icon other embodiments of contact hover card may have any appropriate arrangement design and selection of click to chat UC icon click to talk UC icon and click to meet UC icon

In certain embodiments UC icons provide the hovering user the ability to establish one or more of a particular type of communication session with the hovered upon entity. For example click to chat UC icon may be selected in order to attempt to initiate an instant messaging IM or chat session with entity . As another example click to talk UC icon may be selected in order to attempt to initiate a voice phone call with entity . As another example click to meet UC icon may be selected in order to attempt to initiate a meeting such as a WebEx session with entity . In certain embodiments UC icons may additionally alternatively provide the hovering user the ability to establish other types of communication sessions such as click to video call a click to video chat a Short Message Service SMS text message a paging session and the like. In certain embodiments contact hover card is open allowing any back end UC system from any vendor to drive the functionality of UC icons . As a result a user is provided with a convenient way to quickly and easily contact entity utilizing a variety of types of communications sessions simply by hovering pointer over entity .

In some embodiments UC icons are dynamically created according to certain contextual information. For example before icons are presented in contact hover card computer system may determine whether entity is currently online or available for a communications session. If entity s status indicates that entity is offline or unavailable icons may be disabled by for example appearing grayed out. If however it is determined that entity is online or available icons may be enabled and will function as described above.

In certain embodiments click to talk UC icon may be additionally alternatively dynamically created according to certain contextual information such as preferences specified by entity . For example if entity is another user and that user has specified a preferred telephone phone number in which to be contacted computer system may retrieve the preferred telephone number and dynamically generate click to talk UC icon that operates when selected to attempt to place a call to entity using the preferred telephone number. In certain embodiments click to talk UC icon may be additionally alternatively dynamically generated to include a selectable drop down list that is populated with all available telephone numbers for entity . For example computer system may retrieve available telephone numbers for entity from entity s preferences an employee directory such as an LDAP directory a data store such as collaboration data store and the like.

In certain embodiments click to meet UC icon may be additionally alternatively dynamically created according to certain contextual information such as calendar data for the hovering user. For example if the hovering user is currently in a WebEx session with another user computer system may retrieve information about the WebEx meeting and determine from the retrieved data the participants of the meeting. Computer system may then generate click to meet UC icon based on the determination of the participants of the meeting. For example if it is determined that entity is not currently participating in the meeting already in progress click to meet UC icon may be generated to present to the hovering user when selected an option to invite or add entity to the meeting already in progress. As a result a user may easily and quickly attempt to initiate a WebEx or similar meeting session with any entity in webpage .

The contextual information utilized to generate content in contact hover card may be any information related to the hovering or hovered upon user of webpage . In certain embodiments for example clients may transmit information including the hovering and hovered upon users and other contextual information to computer system prior to the generation and display of contact hover card . In certain embodiments the transmitted contextual information may include the location of entity within webpage the physical location of both users the time of day of the hovering the availability of the hovered upon user and the like. As an example if user John is hovering over the name of another user Jane in webpage as he views a blog written by Jane then client may transmit to computer system the names of John and Jane along with an indication that the hovering is occurring in a blog by Jane. Contact hover card could then be dynamically generated to include related content such as a link to additional related blogs generated by Jane a link to additional blogs by other users on similar topic a link to other blogs that have been tagged in similar way and the like. As another example contact hover card may include dynamically generated content related to the physical location of the hovered upon entity . For example computer system may determine based on GPS data or IP location data that a hovered upon user is currently located in the main conference room. Contact hover card may then be dynamically generated to include text such as Jane is currently in the main conference room in order to indicate the current physical location of the hovered upon user. As a result a user viewing webpage and contact hover card may be provided with a set of tools and information to enhance the interaction between the hovered upon entity.

In embodiments where entity is a community contact hover card may be generated as described above. However contact hover card may differ slightly from when entity is another user. For example contact hover card for a community may include one or more of a community icon or picture for entity badge a community description a status of the community and one or more community tags. In addition UC icons may behave differently if entity is a community rather than another user. For example click to talk UC icon may attempt to initiate a telephone call to a community call distribution phone number that distributes the call to members of the community. As another example click to talk UC icon may display when selected a list of the members of the community. In this example the hovering user may can click upon any of the members in order to attempt to initiate a telephone call to that member. In certain embodiments contact hover card for an entity that is a community may have additional community action buttons icons. For example one embodiment of contact hover card for an entity that is a community may include a button icon that allows a user to join that community if the user is not a member of the community or leave that community if the user is already a member of the community. In certain embodiments contact hover card for an entity that is a community may include a status of the hovering user in that community. For example the status of the hovering user may be whether or not the user is a member of that community.

At step the hover card is presented to the user. In certain embodiments the hover card is displayed proximate to the pointer.

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

As described above computer program may include policy manager that may be utilized to implement various policies in order to control how and when users within an organization may access content created and shared by other users within the organization. For example policy manager within computer program may be utilized to restrict access to content based on the time of day or how a user is connected to computer system . An example embodiment of a method utilized by policy manager to control access to content within the organization is described below.

Existing social networking solutions allow a user to create a digital dairy of all of their activities and then share it with their friends and relatives. To control access to content created by its users typical social networking solutions implement a role based access control policy. In such systems access to content is based solely on the identity of the person seeking access.

Method may start at step where a software application for collaboration by a plurality of users within an organization is provided. In some embodiments the software application of step may be computer program described above. In certain embodiments the software application of step enables the users within the organization to perform a variety of actions on a variety of collaboration resources accessible through the software application. For example users within the organization may interact with the software application to create and publish posts as described above with respect to . As another example users within the organization may interact with the software application to select other users within the organization to follow and then receive updates in watchlist when the other users perform actions as described above with respect to . In certain embodiments the actions of step include performing a search creating a new community of users joining an existing community viewing a post sharing a post commenting on a post editing a post uploading a file creating a sub folder sending an email and sending a microblog.

In certain embodiments the software application of step is configured to enforce static and dynamic rules with respect to any of the actions performed by any of the users on any of the resources within the organization. Static rules may refer to rules that are defined as part of the user or resource definition and stored in a policy database. As one example a particular user may create a post using webpage and then create one or more policies using post access options interface to define access permissions for post . The one or more policies created using post access options interface are static rules that are stored and then utilized to control access by other users to post . As another example access to content such as posts may be restricted to certain times of the day e.g. during business hours or to users who are connected to the system in a certain way e.g. allow access if connected through an intranet but disallow if connected through a VPN . Dynamic rules may refer to rules that are dynamically computed in code. For example a decision to allow a user to become a member of a particular community may be a dynamic decision based on the user s relationship to the owner of the community. In another example a community may be created where anyone in the reporting chain of the creator may automatically be granted membership privileges. In this example the reporting relationship may be determined from a LDAP directory at run time.

At step method includes in response to a particular one of the users of the software application attempting to perform with the software application a particular one of the actions on a particular one of the resources determining a particular one of the rules associated with the particular one of the actions. In certain embodiments the particular one of the rules is based at least in part on the particular one of the resources one or more particular attributes of the particular one of the actions and an identity of the particular one of the users. As an example for illustrative purposes only a particular rule associated with a particular post that was previously created by a first user may be determined in response to a second user attempting to comment on the particular post . In this example one or more policies that were created by the first user using post access options interface to define access permissions for the particular post may be accessed when the second user attempts to comment on the particular post . The one or more policies may then be analyzed to determine whether a particular rule exists for the second user regarding the particular post . For example it may be determined that the first user created a policy for the particular post that allows the second user to only view and share the particular post .

In certain embodiments the particular one of the rules of step is based additionally alternatively on the relationships of the particular one of the resources to other resources or relationships of the particular one of the users to other users. In certain embodiments the particular one of the rules of step is based on people to people relationships people to community relationships community to community relationships people to information relationships communities to information relationships and information to information relationships. For example a community owner can specify that the members of the current community and members of related communities may have access to a particular one of the resources. In certain embodiments the particular one of the rules of step is based additionally alternatively on social graph as described above.

At step method includes enforcing the particular one of the rules with respect to the particular one of the actions. Using the above example the particular one of the rules that would be enforced would be the determined rule that the second user may only view or share the particular post . As are result the second user would be blocked from commenting on the particular post when the second user attempts to add the comment.

In certain embodiments the rules enforced in step may be enforced based on contextual information. For example rules may be enforced base on the time of day or the title of the user. Additionally rules may be enforced based on how the user is connected to the system such as allowing access if the user is connected directly through an intranet and denying access if the user is connected via a VPN. In certain embodiments the rules enforced in step may be enforced based on any information that may be extracted from a database such as a LDAP directory a relational database such as social graph store and the like.

In certain embodiments method may additionally include inheriting static and dynamic rules. For example all resources in a particular community may inherit a default policy from the community policy. In another example all portlets or gadgets in a particular webpage may inherit a default policy from the page policy. In certain embodiments organizational collaboration systems from two or more separate departments or organizations may be federated together for inter departmental or inter company collaboration. Here the policy enforcement can be federated across multiple policy engines based on which system the user belongs to and which system owns the resource being accessed.

Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple servers or clients to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as Google Toolbar or Yahoo Toolbar. A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments a server may include a search engine . Search engine may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by search engine . For example and without limitation search engine may implement one or more search algorithms that may be used to identify network resources in response to the search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms that may be used to rank the identified network resources one or more summarization algorithms that may be used to summarize the identified network resources and so on. The ranking algorithms implemented by search engine may be trained using the set of the training data constructed from pairs of search query and clicked URL.

In particular embodiments a server may also include a data monitor collector . Data monitor collection may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by data collector collector . For example and without limitation data monitor collector may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the collected network traffic data in one or more data storage . The pairs of search query and clicked URL may then be extracted from the network traffic data.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

