---

title: Method and system for presenting a navigation path for enabling retrieval of content
abstract: An approach for enabling presentment of a navigation path as performed by a user over a network to facilitate rapid acquisition of content is described. A navigation path representing one or more sequences of resource identifiers that are related based on selection information provided by a user in navigating, via a browser application is presented. The navigation path is presented to permit direct selection of one of the resource identifiers of the one or more sequences for acquiring content associated with the selected resource identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582590&OS=09582590&RS=09582590
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09582590
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101228
---
Internet ready computing devices such as mobile phones smartphones and laptops are indispensible tools providing convenient on demand access to information for users. For example a number of such devices feature browsers or web portal applications that allow users to perform information searches visit websites featuring content of interest or even retrieve and execute certain content including audio and video data. A particular page of a website visited by a user may feature several embedded links anchors clickable media tags uniform resource locators URLs and other resource identifiers for enabling a user to navigate to different content. Hence in the process of using the browser a user may navigate to several different pages along the way as they attempt to identify content of interest. In other instances the user may digress and end up accessing content of a completely different nature referenced by an unexpected resource identifier e.g. URL . Unfortunately there is no convenient way to enable a user to view the specific navigation path they engaged during prior web browser use so that they may quickly recall content of interest.

Based on the foregoing there is a need for effective convenient for enabling presentment of a navigation path as performed by a user over a network to facilitate rapid acquisition of content.

An apparatus method and software for enabling presentment of a navigation path to facilitate rapid acquisition of content is described. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

In certain embodiments a resource identifier pertains to any value or data for indicating the location whereabouts mode of access or means of retrieval of content from over a network. By way of example a resource identifier may include an embedded link within a web page anchors or tags encoded within a web page clickable media tags uniform resource locators URLs uniform resource names URNs digital object identifiers DOIs persistent uniform resource locator PURLs extensible resource identifier XRIs and other resource locator value or reference for enabling a user to retrieve different content. For the purpose of example a resource identifier may point to or identify a specific location of content such as a webpage comprising various textual data e.g. search results a company website intranet data an audio or video file a multimedia clip an executable script e.g. Java Script and various retrievable documents. Of note content such as a web page may itself include various resource identifiers for referencing other content.

In certain embodiments user devices and in particular wireless communication devices or network ready computes such feature browser applications or web portals that allow users to perform information or content searches access a webpage featuring various content or execute various applications and web services. Typically when a user decides to navigate for content within a public data network e.g. the global Internet by way of their browser the user may start the navigation at a point of origination such as a homepage of web site . By way of example the homepage is referenced by a specific resource identifier and may include content to be viewed such as pictures and text as well as content to be accesses such as additional resource identifiers e.g. tags URLs the content being accessed by way of the resource identifier through execution of a mouse click or other selection means. Alternatively the user can type the resource identifier directly into a dedicated data entry field of the web browser application . In either case the user is bound to select several resource identifiers in various sequences as the user navigates via the content site to retrieve different content. This series of resource identifiers and their various sequences from a point of origination to an end point of reference to a specific set of content in certain embodiments pertains to a navigation path. 

In some instances the user may be intent on retrieving content of a particular nature or context as they navigate but may end up retrieving entirely different or loosely related data. By way of example when a user accesses a search engine website e.g. site for retrieving data about Dog Toys the results may be shown as a list of content and associated resource identifiers for linking the user to further data related to the topic. One result may include a caption and associated resource identifier such as World s best toys for dogs www.example1.com another ACME Pet store Dog Toys. www.acmeexample.com and another Dog clothes for your best friend. www.acmedogfood.com. Though the user may have intended to identify resources regarding dog toys they may find the link regarding dog clothes compelling and select the corresponding resource identifier. Under this scenario this may further lead to the accessing of other resource identifiers along the way such as content regarding dog grooming pet care and other data.

If the user at a later time wishes to recall the resource identifiers they accessed during a prior browser session so that they can retrieve content of particular interest the user has few options. One option is to toggle through a history listing to see if the specific resource identifier of interest can be found. Another option is to redo the search starting with the entry of Dog toys into the search engine then attempt to remember and retrace the navigational path that was taken the first time that led to the desired content. Both options while capable of being performed are time consuming and cumbersome for the user. Furthermore these approaches to recalling prior viewed content do not lend themselves to enabling the user to readily recall the navigational path i.e. sequence of resource identifiers traversed along the way for rendering specific content. Even when the browser maintains a list of prior visited resource identifiers as in the form of a history listing the list does not adequately depict the interrelations between respective identifiers nor does it convey the movement or sequence of identifiers e.g. web pages accessed by the user over time during a distinct browsing session. Unfortunately there is no convenient efficient way to enable a user to view the navigation path associated with a prior web browser usage session. Traditional mechanisms do not permit quickly pointing to e.g. jump to content of interest.

To address this issue the navigation path process for enabling dynamic tracking of resource identifiers and their interrelationships e.g. how one resource identifier references another . By way of example the process can provide various functions for enabling the browser application to present a visual or textual representation of the navigation path along with an indication of the appropriate sequence of the resource identifiers constituting the path. The process according to one embodiment enables any one of the user devices to generate a data view such as by way of the browser applications of the navigation path exercised by a given user during a certain period of time e.g. yesterday today one week ago or with respect to a particular browsing session. In one embodiment the navigation path process can be offered by a service provider as a managed or hosted solution whereby such process is downloaded from an application server not shown .

It is noted that user devices may be any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs smartphone netbook or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the user devices can support any type of interface for supporting the presentment or exchanging of data. In addition user devices may facilitate various input means for receiving and generating information including touch screen capability keyboard and keypad data entry voice based input mechanisms and the like. Any known and future implementations of user devices are applicable.

In certain embodiments user devices employs a service provider network to access other systems and networks namely data network . As such one or more networks such as data network telephony network and or wireless network can interact with the service provider network . Networks may be any suitable wireline and or wireless network and be managed by one or more service providers. For example telephony network may include a circuit switched network such as the public switched telephone network PSTN an integrated services digital network ISDN a private branch exchange PBX or other like network. Wireless network may employ various technologies including for example code division multiple access CDMA enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS mobile ad hoc network MANET global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like. Meanwhile data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network such as a proprietary cable or fiber optic network.

Although depicted as separate entities networks may be completely or partially contained within one another or may embody one or more of the aforementioned infrastructures. For instance service provider network may embody circuit switched and or packet switched networks that include facilities to provide for transport of circuit switched and or packet based communications. It is further contemplated that networks may include components and facilities to provide for signaling and or bearer communications between the various components or facilities of system . In this manner networks may embody or include portions of a signaling system 7 SS7 network or other suitable infrastructure to support control and signaling functions.

In one embodiment the authentication module authenticates users and user devices for interaction with the navigation path process to provide privacy settings with respect to the tracking functions. By way of example the authentication module receives a request by the user or another application to instruct the process to track and present navigational paths. The subscription process may include enabling the user s browser applications to be configured for execution with respect to the navigation path process . For instance the navigation path process may be configured as a toolbar option or executable button wherein respective features and functions of the process are invoked by way of the browser applications . The authentication module may present the user device with an executable to be run by the user device for installment of software e.g. a navigation path viewer to be integrated with the browser applications 

In one embodiment the navigation path monitor observes and records the various resource identifiers e.g. URL entries navigated to by the user as they execute a browser applications . In addition the navigation path monitor also maintains sequence information regarding various resource identifiers accessed as well as drill down information. Hence the navigation path monitor is operable during any browsing session engaged by the user for enabling path tracking. The tracking process may be triggered by startup of the browser application entry of a resource identifier such as a URL into a data entry field of the browser application initialization of a search or any other interaction caused by the user during browser use.

 Sequence information in certain embodiments specifies the order of access of resource identifiers by the user during a browsing session. The sequence information can be utilized to convey how resource identifiers were accessed in a sequential manner or in some instances simultaneously as the user navigates from a point of origination e.g. a starting web page to an end point e.g. a final web page . It is noted that time and date information for indicating a specific instance of access of a given resource identifier may be appropriately recorded as or in addition to the sequence information. Also in certain embodiments drill down information pertains to the level of depth or distance from one resource identifier to another. By way of example if a user must clicks on several different links tags URLs etc. to acquire content of interest then x 1 drill downs are recorded. Generally at least one or more sequences of resource identifiers are required to formulate a navigation path.

It is noted that drill down information and sequence information may be particularly useful for representing the interrelationships between successively accessed resource identifiers. Hence the monitor is able to track sequences that begin at different ones of the drill down levels and include at least one non common resource identifier. By way of this approach the navigation path monitor can recognize for example URLs or links that reference entirely different websites thus enabling related URLs links tags or anchors and other resource identifiers to be distinguished from unrelated ones.

The navigation path monitor maintains data regarding the above described browser activity in the path database . It is noted that the start point end point drill down information and sequence information may be stored to the path database along with some content or metadata thereof. The metadata may provide descriptive information regarding the content statistics relating to the content tag information cookies and other data.

In one embodiment a path representation module processes the path data as gathered by the navigation path monitor in order to generate a representation of the navigation path. By way of example the path representation module analyzes the gathered resource identifiers and their associated sequences and drill down levels for generating a visual or textual depiction of the navigation path. The visual or textual depiction is generated to indicate the interrelations between respective resource identifiers as well as data for describing particular content associated with a resource identifier. The depiction may include various nodes for representing a specific resource identifier route indicators for representing a path from one identifier to another metadata for describing the resource identifiers time and date information for indicating a time period of access of content and other information. In addition the path representation module operates in connection with the user interface module to enable presentment of a data view e.g. a path viewer for displaying the navigation path.

It is noted that the navigation path may be caused for presentment by the path representation module in response to invocation of the browser application or upon receipt of a request e.g. by the user during a browsing session. In the latter example the request may be received by way of user selection of an action button from the browser application wherein the action button triggers a data view for displaying the navigation path. Alternatively the path representation module may be configured to generate the data view independent of the browser application i.e. as a separate pop up window or through a login process user interface of the navigation path process .

Also the path representation module may also be configured to enable presentment of the navigation path in an expanded or collapsed view. The expanded view may correspond to a full graphical depiction of the navigation path that includes all of the various interrelated resource identifiers traversed during a browsing session by the user. The collapsed view may correspond to an abbreviated or textual representation of the navigation path. More regarding presentment of the navigation path such as in connection with user operation of a browser application will be described more fully with respect to .

In one embodiment the path trend module generates data for indicating the navigation path trends and patterns of the user. By way of the example the path trend module may analyze the path data as generated by the navigation path monitor over time. Based on this historical data set as well as various trend analysis models or algorithms various statistics and metrics may be generated for characterizing or predicting further navigational tendencies of the user. This data may be further stored as path trend data and maintained in association with a specific profile of the user as maintained in the registration database. Path trend data may then be subsequently analyzed by the service provider or content providers for developing refined search engine optimization techniques directing target advertisements to users enhancing user query results and the like. It is contemplated that the path trend data for various subscribers to the navigation path process may be analyzed individually for application to a specific subscriber or in aggregate for application to a group of subscribers.

In one embodiment the user interface module enables presentment of a graphical user interface for presenting a navigation path e.g. a data view for displaying a representation of the navigation path . By way of example the user interface module generates the interface in response to application programming interfaces APIs or other function calls corresponding to the browser applications or web portal application of the user devices for enabling the display of graphics primitives. Of note the user interface module may operate in connection with the path representation module to permit the retrieval of content through access of a resource identifier.

In one embodiment a communication module enables formation of a session over a network between the navigation path process and the browser application or web portal via the user interface. By way of example the communication module executes various protocols and data sharing techniques for enabling collaborative execution between a subscriber s user device e.g. mobile devices laptops smartphones tablet computers desktop computers and the navigation path process over the network . It is noted that the communication module is configured to support a browser session i.e. the retrieval of content as referenced by a resource identifier during a specific period of time or usage of the browser. The browser session may support execution of an internet search web page upload multimedia playback and other functions.

Also in one embodiment a controller module is configured to regulate the communication processes between the various other modules. For example the controller module generates the appropriate signals to control the communication module for facilitating transmission of data over the network . Also while not shown the controller module may access various monitoring systems for regulating operation of the navigation path process . This may include systems for detecting current data traffic levels error conditions data exchange rates network latencies resource allocation levels and other conditions associated with the operation of the navigation path process such as to ensure its effective use respective to a browser application .

In step of process a request for query of the content is received by the navigation path process by way of the browser applications . In another step the navigation path process tracks selection of the resource identifiers to generate the navigation path and the one or more sequences. Per step the navigation path is selected for presentation in response to the query. It is noted that presentment may occur in a separate pop up window or in a frame menu or other module integrated within the browser applications 

In step of process the navigation path process tracks a navigation path specifying multiple resource identifiers associated with user selections of the resource identifiers in response to a single query e.g. search query . Of note the query may include a request for specific content content pertaining to a search result set or a combination thereof. Per steps and respectively the navigation path is stored e.g. database among other navigation paths corresponding to other queries and retrieves one of the navigation paths in response to a user input.

A search engine not shown accessible from a web page or site A that is referenced by a distinct resource identifier e.g. uniform resource locator URL may direct the user to subsequent resource identifiers upon entry of a search term. By way of example the resource identifiers are shown herein as being representative of various topics of potential interest to the user. Thus when the user enters the search term e.g. Topic a web page or site B is generated retrieved that contains several additional Topics resource identifiers pertaining to the search. The user selects Topic through Topic over time as they navigate to identify content of interest. Thus under this scenario the navigation path is observed as a sequence of user selected reference identifiers Topics occurring as the user traverses from an origination point at web page A to an endpoint at web page G. The navigation path is represented visually by the lines connecting Topics and corresponds to an initial navigation path.

A secondary navigation path is also shown by way of example. At web page C the user may have selected another Topic that happened to capture the user s interest. This topic may or may not have been related to the original topic Topic that characterized the initial search i.e. the user digressed. As such the user selects Topic through Topic over time as they navigate to identify content of interest pursuant to an origination point at web page C to an endpoint at web page G. The secondary navigation path is represented visually by the lines connecting Topics and is distinctly different from the initial navigation path.

It may be observed by way of this example that if the user were to reconstruct these paths at a later browsing session they may be presented with the entire domain of search results resource identifiers Topics thereof generated over the course of browser execution. Furthermore in the case where the user digressed they may be able to identify interrelations between resource identifier Topics such as in the case of web page C which contains two topics and that comprise respective navigation paths. This execution is further explained below in .

In a user invokes a browser application which in turn causes retrieval of a homepage. In this case the homepage is set to specify a resource identifier value corresponding to www.biggiantweb.com main.html which is the site for content provider BIGGIANTWEBSITE.COM. By way of example the website features various content including pictures text and additional resource identifiers for accessing other related content. The resource identifiers include a set of Quick Links to content pertaining to various topics general topic heading links and for accessing multiple articles pertaining to Today s Wacky News and Today s Sports News respectively and links and respectively for accessing full articles relating to Wacky News and Sports News. It is noted that the content is up to date and corresponds to the date of access the browser session by the user of Aug. 12 20xx.

When the user selects e.g. clicks the Today s Sports News link another resource identifier value shown in corresponding to www.biggiantweb.com sports.htm is activated. This results in the retrieval of content pertaining sports news of multiple categories including football baseball golf volleyball soccer and hockey. For each of these categories additional resource identifiers for retrieving content of specific interest are also presented. By way of example for the topic category of football the user has the option of selecting an Pro Football link or a College Football link . After browsing through the categories for a period of time the user then selects the College Football link which retrieves content pertaining to this subject matter as shown in .

The content retrieved is referenced by a resource identifier value corresponding to www.biggiantweb.com cfootball.htm for presenting links e.g. and to various articles pertaining to college football. In addition the content also includes a selectable advertisement link for a college wherein the link references a resource identifier value corresponding to www.dlousycollege.edu main.htm. Upon selecting this link the homepage of D Lousy College is retrieved for presentment to the browser . It is noted that the resource identifier retrieving content pertaining to D Lousy College is unrelated to resource identifiers and which are all related to BIGGIANTWEBSITE.COM.

By way of example in the user is presented with various links for accessing further topics content of interest pertaining to the college. The user may select a link for activating an audio file which causes execution of a media player at the user device 

It is noted that while the resource identifier value for retrieving the media clip entitled D Lousy Fight Song.wav was retrieved no webpage transition occurs. Hence from the same page that corresponds to identifier value the user selects a resource identifier for retrieving content providing information regarding prospective students. This results in presentment of another page featuring content pertaining to prospective students not shown . For example purposes the resource identifier value for the prospective students page is www.dlousycollege.edu prospectives.htm. The user then ends their browsing session by closing the browser or minimizing the browser for a period of time after having navigated to the content of interest. It is noted further by way of example that while the user does not bookmark the resource identifier referencing this content of interest the navigation path platform tracks the navigation path traversed during this session.

In the user decides to access their browser to engage a web browsing session on Aug. 23 20xx ten days after within two weeks of the above described session. Having decided to pursue a higher education the user wants to access the content they viewed previously but they cannot recall the name of the school the specific resource identifier value or any other identifying information. Thus the user decides to submit a request at the browser application in connection with the navigation path process for presentment of a prior executed navigation path. By way of example the user selects a path viewer action button which results in the invocation of a data view as shown in referred to herein as a path viewer .

When the user selects the time frame 2 WEEKS they are presented with a graphical representation of a navigation path comprising various nodes e.g. for representing specific resource identifiers route indicators e.g. arrow arrow for representing a path from one identifier to another and metadata for describing the resource identifiers as traversed at varying drop down levels or in accord with varying sequences. A first node presented in the path viewer informs the user that the point of origination of the depicted session was with respect to the resource identifier for the BIGGIANTWEB.COM homepage. As per several additional nodes are also presented adjacent to this node which are representative of the various additional links capable of being invoked from the home page. Associated metadata pertaining to this node is also shown. It is noted that node may be clicked upon by the user for causing retrieval of content corresponding to resource identifier value as shown in .

A route indicator then points to another node accessed in the past by the user during this session along with various other nodes for representing resource identifiers associated with the same page. Associated metadata is presented as well. As per the use case described above the node represents resource identifier value for retrieving content as shown in Today s Sports News of BIGGIANTWEB.COM. Nodes and corresponding to resource identifier values and of respectively are also shown as having been accessed by the user the nodes being presented adjacent to other nodes associated with the same pages respectively. Associated metadata and is also presented. It is noted that the route indicator for representing the path traversed from node to is different in appearance e.g. dashed to indicate an unrelated resource identifier was accessed. As mentioned previously this corresponds to navigation from the web page of content provider BIGGIANTWEB.COM to that of DLOUSYCOLLEGE.EDU.

As noted the navigation path also depicts the nodes and which corresponds to resource identifiers and for retrieving content pertaining to the D Lousy Fight Song and prospective students respectively. Associated metadata is also shown. By way example a route indicator is shown for indicating to the user via the path viewer the sequence in which the mutually embedded links at the college website were retrieved. Of note the arrows may in certain instances be presented in unidirectional fashion to illustrate back and forth movement between respective resource identifiers. Alternatively the user may be presented with an action button for allowing the view to disable repeating or redundant reference identifier navigation.

The path viewer operating in connection with the navigation process may also be may be configured to enable mouse over data views. When the user moves the mouse reference icon over a particular node without clicking it a data view is presented for indicating the specific resource identifier the node corresponds to. By way of example when a mouse over is performed with respect to node the data view is shown to indicate the node is a reference to a resource identifier for accessing a message from the Dean of D Lousy College. From this data view the user can bookmark the specific resource identifier by providing input at a bookmark selection field . Still further in certain embodiments the user may also activate or deactivate a time period setting that is configured to present time data associated with respective of the selected nodes . This option may be employed by the user for narrowing down navigation path results in instances where a broader time frame is insufficient for enabling ready user identification of content of interest.

It is noted that the path viewer as presented with respect to for displaying a navigation path may be considered a full view. A consolidated or collapsed view representative of the data as shown in TABLE 1 may be presented via the viewer as follows 

The exemplary techniques and systems presented herein enable immediate tracking and presentment of a navigation path traversed during a browser session. In one embodiment the navigation path platform renders a visual representation of the navigation path to the browser application in response to a query request. The navigation path as presented is depicted as one or more resource identifiers interconnected in such as way as to represent the sequence of said resource identifiers for acquiring content of interest to the user. This execution may be performed with respect to any of the resource identifiers presented in connection with the navigation path thus enabling a user to quickly review the entire domain of results correlating to the path during a prior browsing session.

The above processes and arrangement in certain embodiment advantageously provide convenient effective access to content associated with prior navigation paths.

The processes described herein for tracking and presenting navigational paths may be implemented via software hardware e.g. general processor Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. firmware or a combination thereof. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

The computer system may be coupled via the bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display active matrix display or plasma display for displaying information to a computer user. An input device such as a keyboard including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to the bus for communicating information and command selections to the processor . Another type of user input device is a cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to the processor and for adjusting cursor movement on the display .

According to an embodiment of the invention the processes described herein are performed by the computer system in response to the processor executing an arrangement of instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions can be read into main memory from another computer readable medium such as the storage device . Execution of the arrangement of instructions contained in main memory causes the processor to perform the process steps described herein. One or more processors in a multi processing arrangement may also be employed to execute the instructions contained in main memory . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the embodiment of the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software.

The computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . The communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link connected to a local network . For example the communication interface may be a digital subscriber line DSL card or modem an integrated services digital network ISDN card a cable modem a telephone modem or any other communication interface to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of communication line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card e.g. for Ethernet or an Asynchronous Transfer Model ATM network to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links can also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information. Further the communication interface can include peripheral interface devices such as a Universal Serial Bus USB interface a PCMCIA Personal Computer Memory Card International Association interface etc. Although a single communication interface is depicted in multiple communication interfaces can also be employed.

The network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example the network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer which has connectivity to a network e.g. a wide area network WAN or the global packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet or to data equipment operated by a service provider. The local network and the network both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals to convey information and instructions. The signals through the various networks and the signals on the network link and through the communication interface which communicate digital data with the computer system are exemplary forms of carrier waves bearing the information and instructions.

The computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s the network link and the communication interface . In the Internet example a server not shown might transmit requested code belonging to an application program for implementing an embodiment of the invention through the network the local network and the communication interface . The processor may execute the transmitted code while being received and or store the code in the storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution. In this manner the computer system may obtain application code in the form of a carrier wave.

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to the processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium or non transitory i.e. non volatile media and volatile media and transmission media. Non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as the storage device . Volatile media include dynamic memory such as main memory . Transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise the bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic optical or electromagnetic waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in providing instructions to a processor for execution. For example the instructions for carrying out at least part of the embodiments of the invention may initially be borne on a magnetic disk of a remote computer. In such a scenario the remote computer loads the instructions into main memory and sends the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem of a local computer system receives the data on the telephone line and uses an infrared transmitter to convert the data to an infrared signal and transmit the infrared signal to a portable computing device such as a personal digital assistant PDA or a laptop. An infrared detector on the portable computing device receives the information and instructions borne by the infrared signal and places the data on a bus. The bus conveys the data to main memory from which a processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory can optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to enable presentment of a navigation path as performed by a user over a network to facilitate rapid acquisition of content. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

While certain exemplary embodiments and implementations have been described herein other embodiments and modifications will be apparent from this description. Accordingly the invention is not limited to such embodiments but rather to the broader scope of the presented claims and various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements.

