---

title: Methods and apparatus for differential phase-contrast fan beam CT, cone-beam CT and hybrid cone-beam CT
abstract: A device for imaging an object, such as for breast imaging, includes a gantry frame having mounted thereon an x-ray source, a source grating, a holder or other place for the object to be imaged, a phase grating, an analyzer grating, and an x-ray detector. The device images objects by differential-phase-contrast cone-beam computed tomography. A hybrid system includes sources and detectors for both conventional and differential-phase-contrast computed tomography.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07949095&OS=07949095&RS=07949095
owner: University of Rochester
number: 07949095
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100212
---
The present application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 156 642 filed Mar. 2 2009 whose disclosure is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety into the present disclosure.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. R01 9 HL078181 and 4 R33 CA94300 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention is directed to cone beam computed tomography CT imaging and more particularly to phase contrast cone beam CT for such uses as breast imaging.

According to the National Cancer Institute one out of eight women will be diagnosed with breast cancer in their lifetime. And while a reduction in mortality from breast cancer is evident in published reports each year 40 000 women will die of the disease.

The optimal breast imaging technique detects tumor masses when they are small preferably less than 10 mm in diameter. It is reported that women with mammographically detected invasive breast carcinoma 1 10 mm in size have a 93 16 year survival rate. In addition as the diameter of the tumor at detection decreases the probability of metastasis declines sharply. If a breast tumor is detected when it is 10 mm or less the probability of metastasis will be equal to 7.31 . If a 4 mm carcinoma is detected the metastatic probability will be decreased by more than a factor of 10 to 0.617 .

Although mammography which on average can detect cancers 12 mm in size is the most effective tool for the early detection of breast cancer currently available has relatively low sensitivity to small breast cancers under several millimeters . Specificity and the positive predictive value of mammography remain limited owing to structure and tissue overlap. Limited sensitivity and specificity in breast cancer detection of mammography are due to its poor contrast detectability which is common for all types of projection imaging techniques projection imaging can only have up to 10 contrast detectability and mammography initially detects only 65 70 of breast cancers. The sensitivity of mammography is further reduced to as low as 30 in the dense breast. Digital mammography DM was developed to try to overcome the limitations inherent in screen film mammography SFM by providing improved contrast resolution and digital image processing however a large scale clinical trial the Digital Mammographic Imaging Screening Trial DMIST showed that the rates of false positives for DM and SFM were the same.

The relatively low specificity of mammography leads to biopsy for indeterminate cases despite the disadvantages of added cost and the stress it imposes on patients. Nearly 80 of the over one million breast biopsies performed annually in the U.S. to evaluate suspicious mammographic findings are benign burdening patients with excessive anxiety and the healthcare system with tremendous cost. There is a need for more accurate characterization of breast lesions in order to reduce the biopsy rate and the false positive rate of pre biopsy mammograms.

To address the mammography limitations as indicated above we have previously developed a cone beam breast CT CBBCT . Briefly the major features of the prototype include a horizontal ergonomically designed patient table with a modular insert to optimize coverage of the uncompressed breast including the chest wall wide openings 1 m on each side of the patient table for easy access to the breast for positioning and potentially good access for imaging guided biopsy and other procedures without significantly changing the basic platform and slip ring technology that facilitates efficient dynamic contrast imaging studies and angiogenesis imaging in the future.

The results of a phantom studies indicate that CBBCT can achieve a spatial resolution up to 2.8 lp mm allowing detection of a 2 mm carcinoma and the microcalcifications 0.2 mm in size for an average size breast 13 cm in diameter at the chest wall with a total dose of 5 mGy. This dose is less than that of a single mammography exam assuming two views are required for each breast. The image quality of CBBCT for visualizing breast tissues breast tumors and calcifications is excellent and coverage of the breast including the chest wall region is at least equivalent to mammography. Visualization of major blood vessels is very good without using a contrast agent.

Ultrasound US is used diagnostically to distinguish fluid versus solid masses and for localization and biopsy. Lately it has been investigated with some success to determine benign versus malignant masses through a US exam. US is a low spatial resolution study has severe limitations in visualizing and characterizing calcifications and is highly dependant on operator skill Intravenous dynamic contrast enhanced breast MRI CEBMRI currently is the only tool that provides functional information to aid in the diagnosis of breast cancer. The CEBMRI study has a high negative predictive value and near 100 sensitivity for invasive breast cancer and serves as a valuable adjunctive modality in managing the breast cancer patient once cancer has been diagnosed by other means. Because it is a tomographic study it is currently the only breast imaging modality that is FDA approved and can truly be compared to CBBCT. CEBMRI is fully dependent on contrast resolution arising from intravenous contrast agents and the neovasculature associated with tumors. The difference in CEBMRI and all other imaging is that the image reflects contrast enhancement of vasculature rather than the actual breast anatomy. Although CEBMRI has a high sensitivity for invasive cancers current techniques may be limited in detecting ductal carcinoma in situ DCIS . CEBMRI is not able to distinguish calcifications and the proposed non neovasculature involvement with DCIS which are evident in up to 50 of breast cancers not associated with a mass.

Digital breast tomosynthesis DBT presently under development aims to mitigate the effect of overlapping structures. Though a measure of success has been achieved DBT is fundamentally limited by its constraints in projection geometry the tomographic slice is not well defined which can cause a loss of resolution in the axial direction that affects visualization of subtle features such as amorphous microcalcifications. CBBCT can provide isotropic high resolution imaging of the entire breast in a more complete tomographic approach compared to other modalities with out breast compression. It is likely to be of particular value for imaging dense breasts and breasts with implants.

As discussed above compared to mammography including digital mammography CBBCT has made significant advancements in detecting breast cancer. However to accurately characterize breast tumors and calcifications and significantly reduce the biopsy rate and false positive rate of breast biopsy it is desirable that the CBBCT should achieve a comparable spatial resolution of the pathology image which is the gold standard for breast cancer diagnosis. The requirement of multifold increase in spatial resolution will mandate increasing the radiation dose over 100 times in order to maintain the same contrast to noise ratio CNR as current CBBCT. For example if the spatial resolution is required to be increased from 2 lp mm to 25 lp mm to maintain a clinical acceptable CNR the dose level would be increased from 6 mGy for an average sized breast with the current CBBCT 186 times to 1.1 Gy. This dose increase is clinically prohibited.

It is therefore an object of the invention to allow an increase in spatial resolution without increasing the dose to a prohibited level.

It is therefore other object of the invention to allow substantially reduce x ray radiation dose to a patient without reducing spatial resolution and contrast to noise ratio.

To achieve the above and other objects the present invention is directed to a system and method for breast imaging or other purposes for example vascular imaging pediatric cone beam CT whole body CT imaging and interventional cone beam CT using x ray differential phase contrast cone beam CT. X ray phase contrast cone beam CT and cone beam CT imaging as an emerging new technology will potentially achieve the spatial resolution level up to 25 lp mm 20 m voxel size while maintaining an x ray dose similar to that of the current CBBCT and mammography. In addition since x ray phase contrast imaging is dependent on the principles of refraction and interference of x ray waves more subtle information can be detected by retrieving the phase coefficients than that possible with conventional attenuation based x ray imaging techniques retrieving attenuation coefficients.

Conventional attenuation based CT and cone beam CT are quite efficient in distinguishing absorption contrast between soft and hard tissues that have very different linear attenuation coefficients. However when imaging soft tissues including breast tissues the low absorption contrast differences of the breast structures benign and malignant limit its performance. Phase contrast techniques are expected to provide an alternative way for soft tissue imaging. Unlike the principle of absorption contrast phase contrast imaging originates from the wave nature of x rays where refraction and diffraction need to be considered. As an electromagnetic wave the x ray is usually characterized by its wavelength amplitude and phase. When it goes through a medium its amplitude is attenuated and its phase is shifted. In x ray technology the refraction index n of a material is usually expressed as a complex number n 1 i . The imaginary part contributes to the attenuation of the amplitude and the real part is responsible for the phase shift. It has been shown theoretically and experimentally that is usually more than 10times larger than . Therefore a phase contrast imaging technique will potentially provide 1000 times higher object contrast than attenuation based CT and cone beam CT techniques.

In the past decade various phase contrast techniques have been developed to manifest the contrast of almost all of which depend on micro focus x ray tubes or synchrotron radiation that are not practical for widespread clinical applications. Recently a new phase contrast imaging technique called the differential phase contrast DPC technique has been proposed which is a grating based interferometry method. A high power hospital grade x ray tube with a wide polychromatic spectrum and high output x ray power can be used to acquire DPC images. However it has not previously been used in the context of the present invention.

Related systems and methods are disclosed in the following U.S. patents U.S. Pat. No. 6 987 831 Apparatus and method for cone beam volume computed tomography breast imaging U.S. Pat. No. 6 618 466 Apparatus and method for x ray scatter reduction and correction for fan beam CT and cone beam volume CT U.S. Pat. No. 6 504 892 System and method for cone beam volume computed tomography using circle plus multiple arc orbit U.S. Pat. No. 6 480 565 Apparatus and method for cone beam volume computed tomography breast imaging U.S. Pat. No. 6 477 221 System and method for fast parallel cone beam reconstruction using one or more microprocessors U.S. Pat. No. 6 298 110 Cone beam volume CT angiography imaging system and method U.S. Pat. No. 6 075 836 Method of and system for intravenous volume tomographic digital angiography imaging and U.S. Pat. No. 5 999 587 Method of and system for cone beam tomography reconstruction whose disclosures are all incorporated by reference in their entireties into the present disclosure. The techniques disclosed in those patents can be used in conjunction with the techniques disclosed herein.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention will be set forth in detail with reference to the drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like elements or steps throughout.

A first preferred embodiment is directed to a differential phase contrast cone beam CT system DPC CBCT for in vivo clinical imaging using the differential phase contrast imaging technique. As shown in such a DPC CBCT system includes a hospital grade x ray tube with a source grating a high resolution detector and a grating system mounted on a gantry . To ensure the mechanical precision and stability the grating system can be designed either as the grating system in or as the grating system in . The purpose of grating system is to produce different phase steps that are defined as relative displacements between the phase grating and the analyzer grating in the direction perpendicular to grating lines. Grating system is composed of several branches and at each branch a phase grating and an analyzer grating are fixed. The relative displacement between the phase grating and the analyzer grating ranges from a small fraction of the period of the analyzer grating to one grating period across different branches. Grating system uses only one phase grating and one analyzer grating and a motor driven stage moves either the analyzer grating or the phase grating to produce different phase steps. The object O will be kept stationary while the gantry will be rotating to take images during a scan. A processor controls the operations of the system and analyzes the data.

The DPC technique is able to produce one dimensional or two dimensional spatial coherence by applying an absorption grating the source grating to a high power x ray tube that has a focal spot size of hundreds of microns and a high x ray output power 10 kW . The line patterns made of high atomic number materials of the source grating can absorb almost all x ray photons impinging on them while the grooves in between let all the x ray photons pass through. The width of the grooves is designed to be comparable to the focal spot size of a micro focus x ray tube. Thus the source grating divides a large focal spot x ray source into several narrow line sources. Each of these line sources is able to produce sufficient spatial coherence at the direction perpendicular to the lines while they are mutually incoherent. When proper parameters are chosen these line sources contribute constructively in the imaging process. In a similar manner the grating pattern can be designed as a matrix of small openings and each opening functions as a point source that is able to individually provide sufficient coherent length in both dimensions but mutually incoherent. Combined with other two dimensional gratings such a system can produce phase information equally in both directions.

The phase stepping algorithm 1 is used to calculate each DPC image the physical principle of which is briefly explained as following The phase grating shows negligible absorption but substantial phase shift dividing the x ray beam into two first diffraction orders. The refracted beams then interfere and form periodical fringes at an integer or fractional Talbot distance where the analyzer grating is placed. The period of the analyzer grating is chosen to be the same as the period of the fringes. If the incident x ray beam encounters an object before it reaches the phase grating its wavefront will be perturbed by the object leading to local displacement of the fringes. To retrieve the encoded phase information the most efficient and robust method now is the phase stepping algorithm. An x ray detector with a pitch larger than the diffraction fringe period can be used to record the intensity images which removes the restriction of an ultrahigh detector resolution that has a pitch even smaller than the diffraction fringes. When the analyzer grating or the phase grating is stepped increasingly by a fraction of the grating period the detected intensity value of any pixel in the detector is modulated by the position of the stepped grating and this modulation shows the same period as the analyzer grating. If the modulation function is transformed into Fourier domain then the complex angle of the first Fourier component is the first derivative of phase at this pixel. The DPC image of an object acquired in this way is a raw DPC image. Usually the background phase distribution due to the non uniformity of grating system is required by the same process without an object in place and the true DPC image of the object is acquired by subtracting the background phase distribution from the raw DPC image. The whole procedure is show in . It should be noted that the background information can be pre stored for the background correction for a given DPC system and therefore it is not necessary to be acquired for every scan. Theoretically at least two sampling points are needed to represent a periodic function and thus at least two phase steps are needed to perform the phase stepping algorithm. In practice three or more sampling points are needed to avoid aliasing artifacts. The grating system is a straightforward implementation of the phase stepping algorithm when precise mechanical accuracy and stability can be achieved during a DPC CBCT scan. The grating system is a mechanically robust implementation of the phase stepping algorithm. Considering the requirements of mechanical accuracy and stability of the order of sub micron it is difficult to keep such a precision in stepping either grating when the gantry is rotating at a high speed. Therefore we propose to use a novel multiple grating sets where the relative position of the phase grating and the analyzer grating in each set is fixed and is corresponding to a phase step. Instead of stepping either grating it is just required to rotate the dial of the grating system to successively align the grating set of each branch with the optical axis of the x ray beam to acquire an intensity image for each phase step and these intensity images are then processed to calculate the DPC image using the method described above.

The DPC images acquired from all view angles will be directly used for reconstruction instead of calculating the line integrals of phase coefficient first from the DPC images. Considering that the cone angle of the DPC CBCT system is small the parallel beam approximation can be applied for tomographic reconstruction and a filtered backprojection FBP algorithm with Hilbert filtering can be used 2 . The DPC images are row wisely filtered using the Hilbert filter and then are backprojected into the object space to calculate the 3 D distribution of the linear phase coefficient. When the object is fully covered by the x ray beam at all view angles no transverse truncation the reconstruction result is accurate up to a constant. The reconstruction constant can be easily determined by setting the phase coefficient of surrounding air to zero. In the case of volume of interest VOI imaging where truncation occurs this reconstruction method also works but the image quality will be degraded by the background trend and the reconstruction constant has to be determined using prior knowledge of the object. Besides backprojection filtration BPF algorithms can be modified for DPC CBCT reconstruction because a differentiation operation is usually performed before backprojection while the DPC image is very similar to the intermediate result after the differentiation operation. This type of algorithm also has a good capability to handle severe truncations. The procedure of DPC CBCT imaging using a typical BPF reconstruction comprises the same methods to obtain DPC images and the only difference is the reconstruction method. The major steps are a acquire raw intensity data from all view angles b compute DPC images using the phases stepping algorithm from the intensity data as shown in c backproject the DPC images to the object space from all view angles and d filter the backprojected data using desired filter s along specified direction s .

In this disclosure the one dimensional grating system with the corresponding scanning protocol and reconstruction algorithm is discussed in details. It should be noted that it is straightforward to extend the one dimensional grating system into a two dimensional system where the source grating is composed of multiple point sources while the phase grating and the analyzer grating are composed of two dimensional matrices. Some of the possible embodiments are shown in . The phase stepping algorithm should be performed in preferred directions x y diagonal and etc to extract the phase contrast equally in both x and y directions. A modification should be carried out for the cone beam reconstruction algorithm to deal with the phase gradient in both directions.

Major parameters of the proposed DPC CBCT system are listed in Table 1. A hospital grade x ray is used for the DPC CBCT system. The x ray tube has a focal spot size of 0.05 mm to 2 mm and an output power of several kilowatts to tens of kilowatts. It will operate at 10 kVp to 150 kVp. Generally it can be any kind of diagnostic imaging x ray radiation sources including mammography tubes angiography tubes CT tubes and other general purpose radiographic tubes depending on the clinical applications.

A two dimensional detector is used for the DPC CBCT system. Unlike other phase contrast imaging techniques there is no strict requirement for an ultra high resolution detector and the detector resolution can be 10 m 1000 m determined by the applications and expected image resolution. The frame rate of the detector is 0.5 frames per second fps to 120 fps for different image acquisition protocols.

The source grating is mounted as close to the focal spot as possible for the best field of view. It divides the x ray beam into many line sources and the width of each line source is less than 50 m. The phase grating is mounted right behind the object and yields a phase difference of PI between grooves and ridges. The period of the phase grating is 2 m to 8 m. The analyzer grating is mounted right at the surface of the detector and it attenuates x rays to 20 to 80 at grooves by strongly attenuation materials. The period of the analyzer grating is the same or half of that of the phase grating depending on the distance between the two gratings which can be fractional Talbot distances or integer Talbot distances. The distance between the source grating and the phase grating and the distance between the phase grating and the analyzer grating determine the period of the source grating which is usually 60 m to 200 m. The sizes of gratings are designed to cover the field of view for the specific applications of the DPC CBCT system. Major grating parameters are listed in Table 2. A possible variation would use two dimensional phase contrast gratings. It should be noted that such a grating design is ideal for parallel x ray beam or an x ray beam with small cone angle as the grating grooves are parallel. When a larger cone angle 5 deg is used it would be better to use focused gratings that is designed and fabricated with consideration of the diverging x ray beam.

The x ray tube detector and grating system are mounted on a rotation gantry that can achieve a speed of 0.5 revolutions per minute RPM to 60 RPM or larger. The patient is kept stationary during a scan. compare computer simulation images of a simple numerical phantom using the attenuation technique and the DPC technique with the same total exposure level and reconstructed spatial resolution. The numerical phantom is composed of three ellipsoids and is placed at the center of the scanning plane. The attenuation based CBCT takes one intensity image at each view angle and a sagittal slice is reconstructed as demonstrated in . The DPC based CBCT as illustrated in the takes four intensity images at each view angle with the analyzer grating shifted by four different steps and the exposure to each intensity image is a quarter of that of the attenuation based image. The four intensity images are then processed to retrieve the DPC image using the principle of the phase stepping algorithm. The same sagittal slice is then reconstructed from the set of DPC images. The phantom image of the same sagittal slice is shown for comparison. It can be observed that both DPC projection and reconstruction images show much higher CNRs than that of the absorption projection and reconstruction images. As expected the measured contrast in the DPC CBCT reconstruction image is about 1000 times higher than that of attenuation based reconstruction while the noise level of DPC CBCT is 40 times higher than that of attenuation based reconstruction. Then measured CNR is 28.2 in the DPC CBCT reconstruction and 0.81 in the attenuation based reconstruction resulting in a CNR improvement of about 35 times. Thus with the same dose level and spatial resolution DPC CBCT imaging possibly provides an order of magnitude improvement CNR over that by attenuation based CBCT. We have performed additional simulation to prove that with 25 lp mm 20 m resolution and mammographic dose level DPC CBCT can achieve clinically acceptable CNR.

In the proposed DPC CBCT technique the data acquisition geometry is not limited to the circle orbit. The gantry can be controlled and moved by at least one motor to perform scans along various orbits including a spiral geometry a circle plus line geometry and a circle plus arc geometry.

The second and the third preferred embodiments are two variations of the first preferred embodiment. The first variation is a micro focus x ray tube based DPC CBCT system as shown in which is the second preferred embodiment. A micro focus tube instead of a hospital grade tube is used for the DPC CBCT system . In this case the source grating is not required as the micro focus x ray tube with a focal spot size

The present invention allows the implementation of a DPC CBCT system to detect and characterize breast tumors and microcalcifications with a spatial resolution up to 25 lp mm which is comparable to that of pathology images and results in the significant reduction of biopsy rate. The following design considerations are involved. The first design consideration is to design and construct a coherent x ray radiation source that combines the hospital grade x ray tube with a specially designed and constructed grating to provide a stable coherent radiation source with 5 cm field of view FOV coverage or larger. The second design consideration is to fabricate high quality gratings with uniform microstructures to cover the proposed FOV. The third design consideration is to design and construct an appropriate 2D detector system which has ultra high spatial resolution 20 m detector cell a high detective quantum efficiency DQE high dynamic range minimal geometric distortion and excellent linearity. The fourth design consideration is to develop a practical DPC CBCT data acquisition scheme along with accurate and efficient phase stepping algorithms and DPC CBCT reconstruction algorithms. The fifth design consideration is to design and construct the proposed HBCT hybrid breast CT system CBBCT plus DPC CBCT to ensure a targeting DPC CBCT scan and proper coverage of the volume of interest.

As discussed above the requirement for a phase contrast imaging system is that the incident x ray beam should be spatially coherent to a certain degree and it is possible to perform DPC CBCT imaging using high power hospital grade x ray tubes with an attenuation grating. To meet this challenge we propose to select a high power mammography tube or general radiography tube with an anode power larger than 10 kW and couple it with a specially designed source grating in where the x ray tube can be considered as being divided into many narrow line sources with width of 10 50 m and these line sources are individually spatially coherent in the direction perpendicular to grating grooves but mutually incoherent. With this design the source is able to provide sufficient x ray flux even with the strong attenuation of the source grating. The high aspect ratio the ratio between groove height and groove width of the grating may affect the field of view and it is important to mount the grating as close to the focal spot as possible preferably 

The gratings used for DPC CBCT imaging will be fabricated using Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS nanofabrication facilities including photolithography physical etching chemical etching deposition and electroplating. The major challenge is the high aspect ratio of the gratings the ratio between groove height and width which makes etching and electroplating difficult. For the phase grating and the analyzer grating the aspect ratio can be as high as 15 to 40 which causes difficulties in etching with straight edges or growing gold into deep grooves. To solve this issue a high quality orientated single crystal silicon substrate Nova Electronic Materials Flower Mound Tex. will be used that is highly selective in a preferred direction with which it is easier to form sharp and deep edges by wet etching using potassium hydroxide KOH . A nitride layer will be used as the mask and the atomic layer deposition ALD will be used to epitaxially grow the seed layer of gold. Next electroplating will be used to grow the gold layer on top of the seed layer following its own crystal structure. Other elements with high atomic number like Pt Hf or Ta can be used as well. Currently the standard large scale MEMS technique is limited to 2.5 inch 2.5 inch silicon wafers that just match the proposed field of view of around 5 cm 5 cm.

There is no strict limitation with detector resolution for the proposed DPC CBCT system and it can range from 10 m to 1000 m determined by the specific applications. Hence most of the currently available detectors for hard x rays including thin film transistor flat panel detector TFT FPO charge coupled device CCD detector and complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS detector can be used. Appropriate scintillators should be chosen for the best x ray energy response. A higher frame rate is expected that makes it possible for faster scanning process and reduced motion artifacts.

The conventional CBCT scanning protocol is quite straightforward as only one x ray exposure is needed to acquire an absorption image at each view angle. The DPC CBCT technique however requires at least three x ray exposures at any view angle and the analyzer grating will be shifted to different position for each exposure to acquire the phase stepping images which will then be processed to compute the final DPC image at this view angle. Thus the phase stepping algorithm for phase retrieval adds more complexity in the DPC CBCT scanning protocols. We propose to divide a complete DPC CBCT scan into several sub scans the analyzer grating being shifted before each sub scan but fixed during each sub scan. This will remove the positioning error due to repeated forward backward movement of the analyzer grating. Then the phase stepping algorithm will be performed to calculate the DPC images at each view angle and the reconstruction algorithm will be performed to calculate the tomographic images. Assuming that M phase stepping images M 3 are needed to calculate the DPC image at each view angle and N DPC images are needed for tomographic reconstruction the whole scanning process is illustrated in . The analyzer grating is positioned in a plurality of steps . . . M in a plurality of positions between those steps it is repositioned in step . When the analyzer grating is in each of the positions a scanning step . . . M is performed to take an image set. The scans result in a DPC image set in step which is reconstructed in step . Phase wrapping due to large phase derivatives or high noise level in intensity images is the major problem that may cause false phase information in DPC images appearing as discontinuities. This problem will be solved by detecting singularities based on wavelet analysis and correcting singularities by interpolation.

High precision good stability and accurate alignment are required in construction and calibration of the DPC CBCT system which concern mostly the relative position of the gratings and . They should be mechanically stable with respect to one another down to a scale of approximately one tenth of the analyzer grating period. The similar scale of stability also applies to the precision of transverse grating motion used in phase stepping method and thus a linear stage with a precision of 0.1 m one way can be used. The back and forth movement will be avoided in phase stepping to eliminate the hysteresis error. The grating mounts will be equipped with precise one way translation and three way rotation to make the gratings and well aligned with their grooves parallel to each other. The angular sensitivity of grating mounts is expected to be within a couple milliradians to minimize a possible moir pattern that occurs if the grooves are not well aligned. Also if the moir pattern is not severe it can be cancelled out by subtracting the background phase image. As the gantry will be rotated during a scan it is a mechanical challenge to stably rotate the huge weight while keeping the relative position between the tube the detector and the grating system unchanged with an accuracy of a few microns.

Large scale fabrication techniques with silicon wafers are under development that are able to make gratings as large as 30 cm 30 cm. The advance of MEMS techniques may also make it possible to make two dimensional gratings that are able to show phase contrast equally well in both directions and eliminate the possible problems with object orientation. There are no major technical obstacles in fabrication of large area up to 50 cm 50 cm high resolution 25 lp mm detectors using CMOS or CCD techniques and the frame rate is expected to be improved by tens of times with novel parallel acquisition and fast caching techniques. Hence the field of view will be greatly enlarged for ultrahigh resolution breast imaging or whole body imaging. Though the x ray tube is not a limitation for DPC imaging emerging techniques of compact micro focus x ray tubes including laser plasma tubes and liquid metal target tubes will further improve image resolution and simplify the system design by removing the grating that may increase field of view and improve exposure uniformity.

With the technique advances described above the DPC CBCT imaging system is expected to scan faster achieve a few seconds scan cover larger objects and provide higher spatial resolution which makes it possible to use the DPC CBCT imaging as both screening and diagnosis tools. The screening DPC CBCT system will be designed with a lower spatial resolution 100 75 m and the patient will be exposed with very low exposure lower than that of two view screening mammography . The diagnostic DPC CBCT system will be designed with a higher spatial resolution 50 20 m and the patient dose will be equivalent to that of a diagnostic mammography 6 mGy for average size normal density breast . Currently the VOI breast imaging is designed as a hybrid system with two sub systems a CBCT system and a DPC CBCT system. In the future it can be further simplified as a single DPC CBCT imaging system that can perform both a screening scan and a diagnostic VOI scan by switching the field of view different resolutions standard resolution for large field view and screening imaging and ultrahigh resolution for small field and diagnostic imaging and different readout rates 0.5 frame s 120 frame second .

Our first application of the proposed DPC CBCT technique is a cone beam breast CT modality for breast cancer diagnosis to reduce the biopsy rate while this technology can be also used for whole body imaging as well as angiography and bone imaging. A fourth preferred embodiment combines current cone beam CT with DPC cone beam CT to form a hybrid cone beam CT that is capable of acquiring both 3D high resolution cone beam CT imaging and ultrahigh resolution DPC cone beam CT imaging. shows one possible design for a hybrid cone beam CT system for breast imaging. The system includes a current cone beam breast CT CBBCT system which is mainly composed of an x ray tube and a flat panel detector . On the same rotary gantry a DPC CBCT system is constructed which is mainly composed of an x ray tube a high resolution detector and a grating system which are described above. The CBBCT is used to scan the whole breast B first and find out the 3D location of any suspicious volume the breast is then translated and positioned such that the suspicious volume is centered in the field of view FOV of the DPC CBCT system finally the DPC CBCT system performs an ultrahigh resolution scan of a region of interest ROI and the phase coefficient of the 3D volume is reconstructed. This ultrahigh resolution DPC CBCT scan is expected to reveal ducts 

The fifth preferred embodiment is a variation of the hybrid system as shown in where there is only one imaging chain and the grating system is designed as a detachable unit. The detector can be a high resolution detector with a pitch of 150 m 1000 m. When the grating system is unmounted as shown in a conventional CBCT imaging scan can be performed. It should be noted that the source grating does not have to be unmounted for this purpose as it would not noticeably influence the imaging process because each line source is much smaller compared to the focal spot size. When the grating system is mounted the system is able to perform a DPC CBCT scan as described for the first preferred embodiment to achieve much higher contrast resolution at the same spatial resolution. It is straightforward that a micro focus tube can be used without using the source grating because a micro focus tube is ideal for DPC CBCT as described for the second preferred embodiment and it is good for conventional CBCT imaging.

The idea of hybrid CBCT system can be implemented for in line phase contrast imaging as well where no grating system is present and it becomes the sixth preferred embodiment as shown in . The x ray source is a micro focus x ray tube with a focal spot size less than 50 m being able to generate partially coherent x rays. An ultra high resolution detector with a pitch less than 70 m is used and multiple rebinning modes are available for image acquisition. In a higher rebinning mode that has a effective pitch of 150 m the conventional CBCT scan can be performed while in a 1 1 rebinning mode that has the highest spatial resolution an in line phase contrast CBCT scan can be performed as the edge enhancement can be captured with such a high resolution.

It should be noted that all the five embodiments can be performed in a spiral scan mode to increase the coverage by moving the object along the rotation axis while the gantry is rotating. There are no theoretical or mechanical difficulties for this application extension.

While preferred embodiments and variations thereon have been disclosed above those skilled in the art who have reviewed the present disclosure will readily appreciate that other embodiments can be realized within the scope of the invention. For example numerical values are illustrative rather than limiting. Also any suitable technique or materials for manufacturing the grating can be used. Furthermore the utility of the present invention is not limited to breast imaging but instead can be applied to any biological or non biological imaging. Therefore the present invention should be construed as limited only by the appended claims.

