---

title: Predicting escalation events during information searching and browsing
abstract: Escalations in users' goals or concerns in web-based searching and browsing may be predicted. An escalation feature is extracted from a webpage and run through a classifier trained to estimate a likelihood that a subsequent search query will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous search query and/or that a subsequent webpage selection will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous webpage selection. It can thus be predicted whether a user visiting a current webpage is likely to escalate or navigate to another webpage based upon the current webpage, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09015081&OS=09015081&RS=09015081
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09015081
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100630
---
Web based searching for information can utilize a search engine to perform queries of content found on the Internet as well as queries of other data sources such as a distributed database. The search engine typically includes a user interface which enables query terms to be input and results to be returned for the query. Search queries can return millions of results for common terms and many of the resulting webpages returned can comprise information from reliable and unreliable sources. There are very few restrictions on what is available on the Internet.

The World Wide Web can provide a variety of information to users for example where websites can provide answers to questions concerning symptoms items locations and more. As an example information obtained from healthcare related searches can affect peoples decisions about when to engage a physician for assistance with diagnosis or therapy how to treat an acute illness or cope with a chronic condition as well as their overall approach to maintaining their health or the health of someone in their care. Beyond considerations of illness information drawn from the Web can influence how people reflect and make decisions about their health and wellbeing including the attention they seek from healthcare professionals and behaviors with regard to diet exercise and preventative proactive health activities.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As an example in medical based web search large volumes of medical information on the Web some of which is erroneous may mislead users with health concerns. In this example the use of Web search as a diagnostic procedure where queries describing symptoms are input and a rank and information of results are interpreted as diagnostic conclusions can lead users to believe that common symptoms may be a result of serious illnesses. It will be appreciated however that medical related issues are merely one example of where escalations may occur. That is the disclosure herein can pertain to any specific domain with medical merely being one example.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed for construction a predictive model from data that can predict a likelihood that a user will escalate from the consideration of common benign outcomes or query terms to rarer more severe outcomes or specifically targeted query terms which are described as escalation events. Predictions may comprise forecasts of a likelihood that a patient will return to revisit concerns about a diagnosis via online search in two or more sessions and that the user will access pages on resource providers e.g. local retailer for treatment goods or services .

In one embodiment for predicting query escalations for web based searching one or more escalation features are extracted from a webpage. The one or more escalation features are run through a classifier trained e.g. by running the classifier over a training set of tagged pages using escalation features to estimate a likelihood of escalation such as a probability score that an escalation event will occur if the webpage is visited. An escalation likelihood result is generated from running the trained classifier using the extracted features. The escalation likelihood result can comprise an estimation that a subsequent search query will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous search query. The escalation likelihood result can also comprise an estimation that a subsequent webpage selection will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous webpage selection.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

In one embodiment query escalations can be revealed by queries issued by a user to a search engine where query terminology is related to a predefined list of escalation terms and or associated with modifiers used to express particular user concerns. As an example in online medical related searching websites can provide answers to such questions as whether concerning symptoms might indicate a serious perhaps chronic or fatal condition or whether such fears are unfounded. However queries describing symptoms can be input and a rank of results and associated information can be interpreted as a diagnostic conclusion which can lead users to believe that common symptoms may be a result of serious illnesses. In this example escalations from common symptoms to serious concerns can lead to unnecessary anxiety investment of time and expensive engagements with healthcare professionals.

In one embodiment extracting one or more escalation features from a webpage can comprise extracting structural features from a webpage. For example in a medical related environment a structural feature can comprise a webpage having a serious illness preceding benign explanations for symptoms and could include a number of words or lines between the serious illness and the benign explanation e.g. more words between serious and benign may lead to a great escalation . Further the webpage may comprise modifiers such as unlikely to be that appear near serious illnesses. These are examples of page structural features that may be used as escalation features for example which may indicate degrees of escalation or non escalation .

At in the exemplary method the one or more escalation features are run through a classifier trained to estimate a likelihood of escalation for the webpage. In one embodiment a classification model can be built using logistic regression over a training set e.g. comprising known escalation and non escalation events . The model trained classifier can be used to predict a probability of occurrence of an escalation event such as by fitting extracted feature data from the webpage to a logistic curve created during the training.

At an escalation likelihood result is generated from running the trained classifier using the extracted features. A likelihood result can comprise an estimation that a subsequent search query comprises an escalation when compared to a previous search query at . For example a user may perform a search query using a first set of terms resulting in a first set of search results comprising webpages. In this example extracted features from a webpage in the first set of search results can be run through the trained classifier to produce an escalation likelihood result. In one embodiment the likelihood result comprises an estimation e.g. a percentage probability that if a user navigates to the webpage a second set of terms from a subsequent search query will comprise escalation terms.

As an example escalation terms may be pre defined such as in medical related searches where the first set of terms comprises benign symptoms e.g. headache and the second set of terms comprises serious conditions e.g. brain tumor . As another example a user may be searching for symptoms related to automotive conditions where a first set of terms comprises general conditions e.g. clicking noise in engine and the second set of terms comprise severe conditions e.g. broken piston rod . Additionally as another example the first set of terms may comprise features of an item or area of interest e.g. features of a tent person limit size weight or conditions for joining a fraternal organization and the second set of terms may comprise escalation terms for identifying where to buy the item or how to get involved in an area of interest e.g. manufacturers or retailers of tents or contacts locations of the fraternal organization . Thus predicting escalation can also lead to advertising opportunities. Moreover medical automotive and items or areas of interest are merely a few examples of possible domains and the disclosure herein and the appended claims are not intended to be limited by these illustrative examples.

In another embodiment at a likelihood result can comprise an estimation that a subsequent webpage selection such as by a user will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous webpage selection. For example a first page selected by a user may comprise discussion of possible causes of a headache and a subsequent selection may comprise comprises listings of local neurologists. In this example an escalation may have occurred because the first page was merely a discussion on causes of headaches such as stress or caffeine withdrawal while the second page jumps to looking for a local neurologist such as for diagnosis e.g. for a brain tumor . Querying for headache and then visiting cancer.org may also be an example of an escalation.

It will be appreciated that while particular embodiments of uses for the techniques described herein are used to provide illustrative examples the techniques are not limited to any particular embodiment. It is anticipated that those skilled in the art may apply escalation the prediction techniques described herein to a plurality of areas. For example escalation prediction may be used as a type of filter for search queries where webpages can have a ranking applied that indicates to a user an estimated potential for an escalation occurring if the page is viewed by the user.

Having generated an escalation likelihood result by running the trained classifier using the extracted features the exemplary method ends at .

In this example the escalation can be determined between the two searches B and C using the query terms. In one embodiment when the escalation is indicated the page immediately preceding the escalated query C can be examined to identify which features may have caused the user to escalate the query for example. These features can be used to train a classifier for estimating escalation likelihood. In another embodiment an escalation likelihood result may be determined for the page such as to provide an indication to the user in the search results as described above.

As another example of an escalation session a second query B after query A and result may comprise a rather general term such as camping. The returned results may comprise uninteresting pages which the user may or may not review. A subsequent search C provides a more narrow term such as tents where a user is provided with a page they select . In this example a subsequent fourth query D comprises terms that indicate the user is looking for a local tent retailer for example. An escalation is provided when comparing the second query B with the fourth query D. Again in this example the page preceding the escalation query D can be examined for features that may have lead to the escalation .

In the example of a first query A and second query B may be similar to those of example A and B respectively . However a third query C merely comprises a more specific type of headache namely a migraine. In this example the escalation terms can be predefined where migraine is defined as a non escalation term when compared with headache. In example a second query B may comprise the same terms as B of . However in this example a subsequent query after reviewing a returned page result results in an undefined non escalation. In the example a non escalation can occur when the user merely ends a session at a review page without a subsequent query. In one embodiment the session may merely time out or the user may close the browser for example without a defined escalation or subsequent query.

At the webpages that are identified as non escalating pages prior to a non escalation event such as and can be tagged as non escalating. At query sessions that result in an escalation event can be identified. As an example referring to examples and comprise escalation events and . In there was a query escalation between the second query B and the third query C. In this example the page preceding the third query C is identified as an escalation page and tagged as such at . Additionally the page preceding the fourth query D of example can be identified as an escalation page and tagged as such at .

At in the exemplary embodiment a training set is constructed which comprises the webpages tagged as resulting in subsequent search query escalations and webpages tagged as resulting in subsequent search query non escalations. At the classifier is trained over the training set using one or more identified escalation features of a webpage. Training the classifier can comprise teaching the classifier to identify an escalation e.g. degrees of escalation expressed as a probability by identifying extraction features in the tagged webpages from the training set .

In one embodiment escalation features can comprise one or more of structural features as described above title and or URL features such as where the title comprises a serious illness or the URL is a forum first person testimonials for example where the page comprises phrases such as told me I felt and I am worried page reliability features for example where the page is externally verified by healthonnet.org and or is recommended by a consulting physician commercial intent features such as where the page has advertisements and how many advertisement blocks and general page features such as word lengths and total size e.g. in kB or mB of data .

The following table comprises some example page features that may be used in a medical based escalation determination 

In one embodiment the escalation features can comprise escalation features from a user session such as from the current user and or one or more other users. For example user session features can comprise one or more of a number of queries in a session query structural features escalating result features number of non query webpages and user session time features. The following table comprises some example user session features that may be used in a medical based escalation determination 

In one embodiment the escalation features can comprise one or more escalation features from a user session history where a user session history may comprise a combination of user sessions from a same or different users e.g. indicative of behavior and or sources extending beyond a particular session s . For example user session features can comprise one or more of features of a number of content queries per a time vector features of a prior session query and features of prior session resources history e.g. medical history levels of engagement with healthcare professionals location information demographics etc. . The following table comprises some example user session history features that may be used in a medical based escalation determination 

Returning to in one embodiment a result of the training of the classifier can be a trained classifier which is able to estimate escalation likelihood. For example the classifier may comprise a logistic regression model e.g. an algorithm disposed in memory of a computer and executed using a processor on the computer that is trained to predict a probability that an escalation event will occur such as by assigning a probability value e.g. a likelihood result expressed as a percentage likelihood to a webpage. It will be appreciated that the classifier is not limited to any particular embodiment merely that it be able to provide a likelihood of escalation result for a particular page of interest.

At the set of escalation features is run through the trained classifier e.g. from . The trained classifier generates an escalation likelihood result for the webpage at which can comprise for example a probability that when the webpage is visited by a user a subsequent search query or webpage selection will comprise an escalation event.

For example an escalation likelihood result may be 0.7 which can mean that there is a seventy percent probability that the escalation event will occur if the webpage is visited by the user. In this example the 0.7 score may be a result of the page comprising severe cause to relatively benign symptoms being unverified having a lot of advertisements user proclivity for escalation or a combination of these things and others. As another example the escalation likelihood result may be 0.1 which represents a low likelihood of escalation. Here the score is a result of features on the page that represent a low likelihood of escalation and or a user s likelihood of non escalation based on their history and or other user histories for similar pages. The escalation likelihood result is not limited to any particular embodiment merely that it express a likelihood e.g. probability that an escalation event occurs.

At the escalation likelihood result is compared to a threshold. In this embodiment the escalation likelihood result can be compared with a desired escalation threshold to predict if the webpage will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous search query or previous webpage selection. For example users may prefer a type of yes or no indication of escalation likelihood where those pages that a likely to result in an escalation event are flagged as such instead of a probability score. For example when a user s search query results are returned the respective webpages in the results can be flagged if their escalation likelihood results meet a desired threshold.

In one embodiment a desired threshold can be scaled by the user and or a default threshold may be provided. Further in another embodiment the threshold can be developed by empirical evidence such as ongoing experimentation and or based on the user s actual behavior. For example a particular user s web based querying behavior may change over time and the desired threshold can be scaled up or down based on empirical evidence of searching and escalation events. Further webpage developer s tactics may change overtime and features that contribute particular weight to an escalation event may evolve such as where they no longer contribute to an escalation event as much.

In one embodiment at the user can perform a search query and webpages can be returned at . In this embodiment as described above an indication of a likelihood of escalation can be provided for the webpage in the search result at . For example a list of webpages can be returned for a search query comprising headache causes. In this embodiment for example along with a list of the respective webpages returned by the search an indication of escalation likelihood e.g. a flag indicating likely escalation a scale from one to ten a color scale or an actual score of likelihood such as percentage probability can be provided in the search result e.g. in the results list in a toolbar in a browser on a user s desktop etc. . In this way in this example the user can identify escalation likelihood for the pages and make an appropriate decision. Further in another embodiment a ranking of the pages can be adjusted based on an escalation likelihood result.

In another embodiment at the user performs the search query and selects a webpage returned as one of the results at . At a resource likelihood intent RUI score can be generated based on the user s selection of the webpage. In this embodiment a RUI likelihood result can be generated from running the trained classifier. Here the RUI likelihood result comprises an estimation that a subsequent search query will comprise a resource identification query where the resources identified comprise services or goods related to a previous search query.

That is for example a user s first query may comprise camping. In this example the user may select a website from the returned results that discusses the types of gear one takes when they go camping including descriptions and forums. In this embodiment an RUI result can be generated for the website which can be used to determine a likelihood that the user s next search will comprise and escalation event where the escalation comprises looking for a specific good or service. As an example the user s subsequent search query after visiting the camping site may be tent retailers where the user is looking to compare or even buy a tent for camping.

In this embodiment this type of escalation event comprises a user specifically looking for a particular good or service. In another embodiment the resources identified can comprise a location specific service or good related to a previous search query. For example where the user s first search was for headache causes and they selected a site that describes potential causes an RUI score can be generated for the webpage. In this example the user s second subsequent search query may comprise neurologists in where the user is looking to identify a local doctor. In this way for example a location specific search query prediction may be utilized to provide mapping locations. That is an RUI result can be mapped to real world events such as making a call making doctor s appointment making or links to making a purchase etc.

A system may be devised that provides for identification of escalation events in web based searching for example. is a component diagram of an exemplary system for predicting query escalations for web based searching. A computer based processor is configured to execute instructions for system components and a memory component is configured to store data for the system. It will be appreciated that the processor and memory components can be disposed on a same computing device as other system components or on disparate computing devices operably linked with other system components.

A feature extraction component is operably coupled with the processor and is used to extract escalation features from webpages . In one embodiment escalation features can comprise one or more of a webpage s structural features title features URL features first person testimonials page reliability features commercial intent features and general page features. Further in another embodiment the escalation features can comprise escalation features from a user session and or escalation features from a user session history. In this embodiment the features from a user session and or user session history are not limited to merely a same user and or session history. For example a combination of information from a current user and other user s sessions and or histories may be used.

A trained classification component is operably coupled with the memory component to generate an escalation likelihood score for a webpage from which one or more escalation features have been extracted. In one embodiment the escalation likelihood score can comprise an estimation that a subsequent search query will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous search query. In another embodiment the escalation likelihood score can comprise an estimation that a subsequent webpage selection will comprise an escalation when compared to a previous webpage selection.

In this embodiment the classification component trainer can be configured to train a classification component to generate a query escalation likelihood score for a webpage by running the classification component over the training set using the one or more sets of escalation features . In this way for example the classification trainer can create a trained classification component used to generate escalation likelihood scores .

An escalation indication assignment component is configured to assign an escalation index to a webpage based on the query escalation likelihood score for the webpage . Further the escalation indication assignment component is configured to provide an indication of potential query escalation to a webpage that appears in a search query result using the escalation index. For example an escalation likelihood score can be generated for a webpage and the escalation indication assignment component can create an index such as a percent probability for the webpage and the index can be presented with the webpage in a list of pages returned by a search e.g. as a scale .

A resource utilization intent RUI likelihood component is operably coupled with the trained classification component to generate a RUI likelihood score by running the trained classifier. In this embodiment the RUI likelihood score comprises an estimation that a subsequent search query comprises a resource identification query where the resources identified comprise services or goods related to a previous search query. For example the RUI likelihood component generates a RUI score for the webpage which indicates e.g. to a search engine provider a likelihood that the user is going to specifically search for particular goods or services such as in their local area.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

