---

title: Portable scanning device
abstract: A handheld optical scanner for capturing images of text from a rendered document is described. The scanner includes a package suitable to be held in a user's hand. The package contains an optical sensor that captures images of text from a rendered document. The package also contains a proximity sensor that determines when the optical sensor is within a predetermined distance and orientation of a rendered document. The package further contains a triggering mechanism that causes the optical sensor to capture an image of text from a rendered document when the proximity sensor determines that the optical sensor is within a predetermined distance and orientation of a rendered document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08179563&OS=08179563&RS=08179563
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08179563
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100929
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 209 333 filed Aug. 23 2005 now abandoned which is a Continuation In Part of the following each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 004 637 filed on Dec. 3 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 707 039 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 961 filed Apr. 1 2005 now abandoned entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR INITIATING APPLICATION PROCESSES BY DATA CAPTURE FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 093 filed Apr. 1 2005 now abandoned entitled DETERMINING ACTIONS INVOLVING CAPTURED INFORMATION AND ELECTRONIC CONTENT ASSOCIATED WITH RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 038 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 599 844 entitled CONTENT ACCESS WITH HANDHELD DOCUMENT DATA CAPTURE DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 014 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 019 648 entitled SEARCH ENGINES AND SYSTEMS WITH HANDHELD DOCUMENT DATA CAPTURE DEVICES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 103 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 596 269 entitled TRIGGERING ACTIONS IN RESPONSE TO OPTICALLY OR ACOUSTICALLY CAPTURING KEYWORDS FROM A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 043 filed Apr. 1 2005 now abandoned entitled SEARCHING AND ACCESSING DOCUMENTS ON PRIVATE NETWORKS FOR USE WITH CAPTURES FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 981 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 606 741 entitled INFORMATION GATHERING SYSTEM AND METHOD U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 089 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled DOCUMENT ENHANCEMENT SYSTEM AND METHOD U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 835 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 831 912 entitled PUBLISHING TECHNIQUES FOR ADDING VALUE TO A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 016 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 421 155 entitled ARCHIVE OF TEXT CAPTURES FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 828 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 742 953 entitled ADDING INFORMATION OR FUNCTIONALITY TO A RENDERED DOCUMENT VIA ASSOCIATION WITH AN ELECTRONIC COUNTERPART U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 833 filed Apr. 1 2005 entitled AGGREGATE ANALYSIS OF TEXT CAPTURES PERFORMED BY MULTIPLE USERS FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 836 filed Apr. 1 2005 now abandoned entitled ESTABLISHING AN INTERACTIVE ENVIRONMENT FOR RENDERED DOCUMENTS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 098 042 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 593 605 entitled DATA CAPTURE FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS USING HANDHELD DEVICE U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 096 704 filed Apr. 1 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 599 580 entitled CAPTURING TEXT FROM RENDERED DOCUMENTS USING SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 110 353 filed Apr. 19 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 702 624 entitled PROCESSING TECHNIQUES FOR VISUAL CAPTURE DATA FROM A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 131 945 filed May 17 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 818 215 entitled PROCESSING TECHNIQUES FOR TEXT CAPTURE FROM A RENDERED DOCUMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 185 908 filed Jul. 19 2005 now abandoned entitled AUTOMATIC MODIFICATION OF WEB PAGES U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 408 filed Aug. 18 2005 now abandoned entitled SCANNER HAVING CONNECTED AND UNCONNECTED OPERATIONAL BEHAVIORS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 457 filed Aug. 18 2005 now abandoned entitled LOCATING ELECTRONIC INSTANCES OF DOCUMENTS BASED ON RENDERED INSTANCES DOCUMENT FRAGMENT DIGEST GENERATION AND DIGEST BASED DOCUMENT FRAGMENT DETERMINATION U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 458 filed Aug. 18 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 437 023 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND COMPUTER PROGRAM PRODUCTS FOR DATA GATHERING IN A DIGITAL AND HARD COPY DOCUMENT ENVIRONMENT U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 208 461 filed Aug. 18 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 005 720 entitled APPLYING SCANNED INFORMATION TO IDENTIFY CONTENT.

The Ser. No. 11 209 333 application claims priority to and incorporates by reference in their entirety the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Application No. 60 604 103 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 604 098 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 604 100 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 604 102 filed on Aug. 23 2004 Application No. 60 605 229 filed on Aug. 27 2004 Application No. 60 605 105 filed on Aug. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 243 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 628 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 632 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 589 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 242 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 602 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 340 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 634 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 461 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 455 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 460 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 400 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 456 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 341 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 361 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 454 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 339 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 613 633 filed on Sep. 27 2004 Application No. 60 615 378 filed on Oct. 1 2004 Application No. 60 615 112 filed on Oct. 1 2004 Application No. 60 615 538 filed on Oct. 1 2004 Application No. 60 617 122 filed on Oct. 7 2004 Application No. 60 622 906 filed on Oct. 28 2004 Application No. 60 633 452 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 633 678 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 633 486 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 633 453 filed on Dec. 6 2004 Application No. 60 634 627 filed on Dec. 9 2004 Application No. 60 634 739 filed on Dec. 9 2004 Application No. 60 647 684 filed on Jan. 26 2005 Application No. 60 648 746 filed on Jan. 31 2005 Application No. 60 653 372 filed on Feb. 15 2005 Application No. 60 653 663 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 669 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 899 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 679 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 653 847 filed on Feb. 16 2005 Application No. 60 654 379 filed on Feb. 17 2005 Application No. 60 654 368 filed on Feb. 18 2005 Application No. 60 654 326 filed on Feb. 18 2005 Application No. 60 654 196 filed on Feb. 18 2005 Application No. 60 655 279 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 280 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 987 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 697 filed on Feb. 22 2005 Application No. 60 655 281 filed on Feb. 22 2005 and Application No. 60 657 309 filed on Feb. 28 2005.

This application incorporates by reference in their entirety the following U.S. Provisional Patent Applications Application No. 60 563 520 filed on Apr. 19 2004 Application No. 60 563 485 filed on Apr. 19 2004 Application No. 60 564 688 filed on Apr. 23 2004 Application No. 60 564 846 filed on Apr. 23 2004 Application No. 60 566 667 filed on Apr. 30 2004 Application No. 60 571 381 filed on May 14 2004 Application No. 60 571 560 filed on May 14 2004 Application No. 60 571 715 filed on May 17 2004 Application No. 60 589 203 filed on Jul. 19 2004 Application No. 60 589 201 filed on Jul. 19 2004 Application No. 60 589 202 filed on Jul. 19 2004 Application No. 60 598 821 filed on Aug. 2 2004 Application No. 60 602 956 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 925 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 947 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 897 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 896 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 930 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 602 898 filed on Aug. 18 2004 Application No. 60 603 466 filed on Aug. 19 2004 Application No. 60 603 082 filed on Aug. 19 2004 Application No. 60 603 081 filed on Aug. 19 2004 Application No. 60 603 498 filed on Aug. 20 2004 Application No. 60 603 358 filed on Aug. 20 2004.

The following disclosure relates generally to scanners and more particularly to handheld scanning devices such as pen scanners.

Scanners are well known devices that capture and digitize images of documents. Most scanners are relatively large devices that are used to scan documents a full page at a time. An example of such a scanner is discussed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 678 075.

Recently smaller scanners have been introduced. Typically these smaller scanners are used to scan less than a full page of a document. For example the can be used to scan sentences or phrases from a document. The data obtained from the scanning process can later be transferred to a personal computer for storage.

Some handheld scanners start scanning when a button is depressed and some scan as long as this button is depressed. Some automatically detect that a scan has begun because a sensor near the tip of the scanner is depressed. Some scanners may have integrated flash memory or an infra red or USB connection to store data locally on a scanner or remotely on a personal computer. Many scanners have a power switch that may be used to turn on these scanners and some are able to automatically shut down due to inactivity. Some scanners may only be able to store text. Some are able to capture an image of unrecognized content e.g. handwriting mathematical symbols pictures if the user touches a button.

On some scanners a user may be able to set a switch so the scanner is better able to interpret what it is scanning e.g. setting a language character set . Some scanners may be controlled with a separate user interface on a personal computer and then having to synchronize the scanner with this computer. Currently these scanners do not allow a user to control functionality or results with methods other than activating a button or switch or some sort. A user is not able to make use of the intuitive gestures to users using an actual pen.

Some devices intend to allow a person to scan a document and then determine which characters have been scanned. While many of these devices are given form factors reminiscent of pens they are often intended primarily to convert printed text to an electronic form. One goal of some embodiments of this invention is to allow users to enjoy the benefits of scanning text by annotating it.

A device for interacting with rendered documents includes a scanner and memory is described. The device can include a small stand alone scanning device or it may include at least part of another device such as at least part of a pen style device at least part of a mouse at least part of a cell phone at least part of a remote control or at least part of a personal digital assistant among numerous possibilities. The device can include one or more means to establish communication with at least one of a separate computing device or a network and can be used both when such communication is currently established on line and also in the absence of any such established communication off line .

Information from rendered documents is scanned to the memory and a user of the device is signaled when sufficient information has been obtained to determine at least one action associated with the scanned information. For example the user may be signaled when sufficient information has been obtained to determine at least one document comprising the scanned information or the user may be signaled when enough information has been has been obtained to determine a commerce operation an annotation a format operation or identifying an advertisement.

Determining when sufficient information has been obtained may involve ascertaining a type or types of the scanned symbols counts or relative positions of the scanned symbols of various types an overall number of scanned symbols a number of scanned words a count of stop and non stop words or symbols or the frequency of occurrence of words or symbols of various types among other things. The methods used for making such a determination may differ depending on whether the device is on line or off line.

Scan context information may be stored in association with the scanned information in the memory. The scan context information may facilitate determination of an action or actions using or otherwise involving the scanned information.

Subsequent to the scanning upon establishing communication between the device and at least one of a separate computing device or a network the scanned information may be transferred to at least one of the separate computing device or the network for further processing and to carry out actions using or involving the scanned information. Instances of scanned information may be accumulated in a repository for the user and may be distinguished according to numerous criteria including for example whether the instance was collected on line or off line whether the system has presented the user with one or more possible actions that may be associated with the instance and whether the user has indicated one or more actions to be performed with respect to the instance.

For every paper document that has an electronic counterpart there exists a discrete amount of information in the paper document that can identify the electronic counterpart. In some embodiments the system uses a sample of text captured from a paper document for example using a handheld scanner to identify and locate an electronic counterpart of the document. In most cases the amount of text needed by the system is very small in that a few words of text from a document can often function as an identifier for the paper document and as a link to its electronic counterpart. In addition the system may use those few words to identify not only the document but also a location within the document.

Thus paper documents and their digital counterparts can be associated in many useful ways using the system discussed herein.

Once the system has associated a piece of text in a paper document with a particular digital entity has been established the system is able to build a huge amount of functionality on that association.

It is increasingly the case that most paper documents have an electronic counterpart that is accessible on the World Wide Web or from some other online database or document corpus or can be made accessible such as in response to the payment of a fee or subscription. At the simplest level then when a user scans a few words in a paper document the system can retrieve that electronic document or some part of it or display it email it to somebody purchase it print it or post it to a web page. As additional examples scanning a few words of a book that a person is reading over breakfast could cause the audio book version in the person s car to begin reading from that point when s he starts driving to work or scanning the serial number on a printer cartridge could begin the process of ordering a replacement.

The system implements these and many other examples of paper digital integration without requiring changes to the current processes of writing printing and publishing documents giving such conventional rendered documents a whole new layer of digital functionality.

A typical use of the system begins with using an optical scanner to scan text from a paper document but it is important to note that other methods of capture from other types of document are equally applicable. The system is therefore sometimes described as scanning or capturing text from a rendered document where those terms are defined as follows 

A rendered document is a printed document or a document shown on a display or monitor. It is a document that is perceptible to a human whether in permanent form or on a transitory display.

Scanning or capturing is the process of systematic examination to obtain information from a rendered document. The process may involve optical capture using a scanner or camera for example a camera in a cellphone or it may involve reading aloud from the document into an audio capture device or typing it on a keypad or keyboard. For more examples see Section 15.

This section describes some of the devices processes and systems that constitute a system for paper digital integration. In various embodiments the system builds a wide variety of services and applications on this underlying core that provides the basic functionality.

Text from a rendered document is captured typically in optical form by an optical scanner or audio form by a voice recorder and this image or sound data is then processed for example to remove artifacts of the capture process or to improve the signal to noise ratio. A recognition process such as OCR speech recognition or autocorrelation then converts the data into a signature comprised in some embodiments of text text offsets or other symbols. Alternatively the system performs an alternate form of extracting document signature from the rendered document. The signature represents a set of possible text transcriptions in some embodiments. This process may be influenced by feedback from other stages for example if the search process and context analysis have identified some candidate documents from which the capture may originate thus narrowing the possible interpretations of the original capture.

A post processing stage may take the output of the recognition process and filter it or perform such other operations upon it as may be useful. Depending upon the embodiment implemented it may be possible at this stage to deduce some direct actions to be taken immediately without reference to the later stages such as where a phrase or symbol has been captured which contains sufficient information in itself to convey the user s intent. In these cases no digital counterpart document need be referenced or even known to the system.

Typically however the next stage will be to construct a query or a set of queries for use in searching. Some aspects of the query construction may depend on the search process used and so cannot be performed until the next stage but there will typically be some operations such as the removal of obviously misrecognized or irrelevant characters which can be performed in advance.

The query or queries are then passed to the search and context analysis stage . Here the system optionally attempts to identify the document from which the original data was captured. To do so the system typically uses search indices and search engines knowledge about the user and knowledge about the user s context or the context in which the capture occurred . Search engine may employ and or index information specifically about rendered documents about their digital counterpart documents and about documents that have a web internet presence . It may write to as well as read from many of these sources and as has been mentioned it may feed information into other stages of the process for example by giving the recognition system information about the language font rendering and likely next words based on its knowledge of the candidate documents.

In some circumstances the next stage will be to retrieve 120 a copy of the document or documents that have been identified. The sources of the documents may be directly accessible for example from a local filing system or database or a web server or they may need to be contacted via some access service which might enforce authentication security or payment or may provide other services such as conversion of the document into a desired format.

Applications of the system may take advantage of the association of extra functionality or data with part or all of a document. For example advertising applications discussed in Section 10.4 may use an association of particular advertising messages or subjects with portions of a document. This extra associated functionality or data can be thought of as one or more overlays on the document and is referred to herein as markup. The next stage of the process then is to identify any markup relevant to the captured data. Such markup may be provided by the user the originator or publisher of the document or some other party and may be directly accessible from some source or may be generated by some service . In various embodiments markup can be associated with and apply to a rendered document and or the digital counterpart to a rendered document or to groups of either or both of these documents.

Lastly as a result of the earlier stages some actions may be taken . These may be default actions such as simply recording the information found they may be dependent on the data or document or they may be derived from the markup analysis. Sometimes the action will simply be to pass the data to another system. In some cases the various possible actions appropriate to a capture at a specific point in a rendered document will be presented to the user as a menu on an associated display for example on a local display on a computer display or a mobile phone or PDA display . If the user doesn t respond to the menu the default actions can be taken.

Computer may include a memory containing computer executable instructions for processing an order from scanning devices and . As an example an order can include an identifier such as a serial number of the scanning device or an identifier that partially or uniquely identifies the user of the scanner scanning context information e.g. time of scan location of scan etc. and or scanned information such as a text string that is used to uniquely identify the document being scanned. In alternative embodiments the operating environment may include more or less components.

Also available on the network are search engines document sources user account services markup services and other network services . The network may be a corporate intranet the public Internet a mobile phone network or some other network or any interconnection of the above.

Regardless of the manner by which the devices are coupled to each other they may all may be operable in accordance with well known commercial transaction and communication protocols e.g. Internet Protocol IP . In various embodiments the functions and capabilities of scanning device computer and mobile station may be wholly or partially integrated into one device. Thus the terms scanning device computer and mobile station can refer to the same device depending upon whether the device incorporates functions or capabilities of the scanning device computer and mobile station . In addition some or all of the functions of the search engines document sources user account services markup services and other network services may be implemented on any of the devices and or other devices not shown.

As described above the capture device may capture text using an optical scanner that captures image data from the rendered document or using an audio recording device that captures a user s spoken reading of the text or other methods. Some embodiments of the capture device may also capture images graphical symbols and icons etc. including machine readable codes such as barcodes. The device may be exceedingly simple consisting of little more than the transducer some storage and a data interface relying on other functionality residing elsewhere in the system or it may be a more full featured device. For illustration this section describes a device based around an optical scanner and with a reasonable number of features.

Scanners are well known devices that capture and digitize images. An offshoot of the photocopier industry the first scanners were relatively large devices that captured an entire document page at once. Recently portable optical scanners have been introduced in convenient form factors such as a pen shaped handheld device.

In some embodiments the portable scanner is used to scan text graphics or symbols from rendered documents. The portable scanner has a scanning element that captures text symbols graphics etc from rendered documents. In addition to documents that have been printed on paper in some embodiments rendered documents include documents that have been displayed on a screen such as a CRT monitor or LCD display.

A microphone and associated circuitry convert the sound of the environment including spoken words into machine compatible signals and other input facilities exist in the form of buttons scroll wheels or other tactile sensors such as touch pads .

Feedback to the user is possible through a visual display or indicator lights through a loudspeaker or other audio transducer and through a vibrate module .

The scanner comprises logic to interact with the various other components possibly processing the received signals into different formats and or interpretations. Logic may be operable to read and write data and program instructions stored in associated storage such as RAM ROM flash or other suitable memory. It may read a time signal from the clock unit . The scanner also includes an interface to communicate scanned information and other signals to a network and or an associated computing device. In some embodiments the scanner may have an on board power supply . In other embodiments the scanner may be powered from a tethered connection to another device such as a Universal Serial Bus USB connection.

As an example of one use of scanner a reader may scan some text from a newspaper article with scanner . The text is scanned as a bit mapped image via the scanning head . Logic causes the bit mapped image to be stored in memory with an associated time stamp read from the clock unit . Logic may also perform optical character recognition OCR or other post scan processing on the bit mapped image to convert it to text. Logic may optionally extract a signature from the image for example by performing a convolution like process to locate repeating occurrences of characters symbols or objects and determine the distance or number of other characters symbols or objects between these repeated elements. The reader may then upload the bit mapped image or text or other signature if post scan processing has been performed by logic to an associated computer via interface .

As an example of another use of scanner a reader may capture some text from an article as an audio file by using microphone as an acoustic capture port. Logic causes audio file to be stored in memory . Logic may also perform voice recognition or other post scan processing on the audio file to convert it to text. As above the reader may then upload the audio file or text produced by post scan processing performed by logic to an associated computer via interface .

As paper digital integration becomes more common there are many aspects of existing technologies that can be changed to take better advantage of this integration or to enable it to be implemented more effectively. This section highlights some of those issues.

Searching a corpus of documents even so large a corpus as the World Wide Web has become commonplace for ordinary users who use a keyboard to construct a search query which is sent to a search engine. This section and the next discuss the aspects of both the construction of a query originated by a capture from a rendered document and the search engine that handles such a query.

Use of the described system typically starts with a few words being captured from a rendered document using any of several methods including those mentioned in Section 1.2 above. Where the input needs some interpretation to convert it to text for example in the case of OCR or speech input there may be end to end feedback in the system so that the document corpus can be used to enhance the recognition process. End to end feedback can be applied by performing an approximation of the recognition or interpretation identifying a set of one or more candidate matching documents and then using information from the possible matches in the candidate documents to further refine or restrict the recognition or interpretation. Candidate documents can be weighted according to their probable relevance for example based on then number of other users who have scanned in these documents or their popularity on the Internet and these weights can be applied in this iterative recognition process.

Because the selective power of a search query based on a few words is greatly enhanced when the relative positions of these words are known only a small amount of text need be captured for the system to identify the text s location in a corpus. Most commonly the input text will be a contiguous sequence of words such as a short phrase.

In addition to locating the document from which a phrase originates the system can identify the location in that document and can lake action based on this knowledge.

The system may also employ other methods of discovering the document and location such as by using watermarks or other special markings on the rendered document.

In addition to the captured text other factors i.e. information about user identity profile and context may form part of the search query such as the time of the capture the identity and geographical location of the user knowledge of the user s habits and recent activities etc.

The document identity and other information related to previous captures especially if they were quite recent may form part of a search query.

The identity of the user may be determined from a unique identifier associated with a capturing device and or biometric or other supplemental information speech patterns fingerprints etc. .

The search query can be constructed taking into account the types of errors likely to occur in the particular capture method used. One example of this is an indication of suspected errors in the recognition of specific characters in this instance a search engine may treat these characters as wildcards or assign them a lower priority.

Sometimes the capturing device may not be in communication with the search engine or corpus at the time of the data capture. For this reason information helpful to the offline use of the device may be downloaded to the device in advance or to some entity with which the device can communicate. In some cases all or a substantial part of an index associated with a corpus may be downloaded. This topic is discussed further in Section 15.3.

If there are likely to be delays or cost associated with communicating a query or receiving the results this pre loaded information can improve the performance of the local device reduce communication costs and provide helpful and timely user feedback.

In the situation where no communication is available the local device is offline the queries may be saved and transmitted to the rest of the system at such a time as communication is restored.

In these cases it may be important to transmit a timestamp with each query. The time of the capture can be a significant factor in the interpretation of the query. For example Section 13.1 discusses the importance of the time of capture in relation to earlier captures. It is important to note that the time of capture will not always be the same as the time that the query is executed.

For performance reasons multiple queries may be launched in response to a single capture either in sequence or in parallel. Several queries may be sent in response to a single capture for example as new words are added to the capture or to query multiple search engines in parallel.

For example in some embodiments the system sends queries to a special index for the current document to a search engine on a local machine to a search engine on the corporate network and to remote search engines on the Internet.

The response to a given query may indicate that other pending queries are superfluous these may be cancelled before completion.

Often it is desirable for a search engine that handles traditional online queries also to handle those originating from rendered documents. Conventional search engines may be enhanced or modified in a number of ways to make them more suitable for use with the described system.

The search engine and or other components of the system may create and maintain indices that have different or extra features. The system may modify an incoming paper originated query or change the way the query is handled in the resulting search thus distinguishing these paper originated queries from those coming from queries typed into web browsers and other sources. And the system may take different actions or offer different options when the results are returned by the searches originated from paper as compared to those from other sources. Each of these approaches is discussed below.

Often the same index can be searched using either paper originated or traditional queries but the index may be enhanced for use in the current system in a variety of ways.

The first example is a field indicating that the document is known to exist or be distributed in paper form. The system may give such documents higher priority if the query comes from paper.

In this example statistical data concerning the popularity of paper documents and optionally concerning sub regions within these documents for example the amount of scanning activity circulation numbers provided by the publisher or other sources etc is used to give such documents higher priority to boost the priority of digital counterpart documents for example for browser based queries or web searches etc.

Another important example may be recording information about the layout of a specific rendering of a document.

For a particular edition of a book for example the index may include information about where the line breaks and page breaks occur which fonts were used any unusual capitalization.

The index may also include information about the proximity of other items on the page such as images text boxes tables and advertisements.

Lastly semantic information that can be deduced from the source markup but is not apparent in the paper document such as the fact that a particular piece of text refers to an item offered for sale or that a certain paragraph contains program code may also be recorded in the index.

A second factor that may modify the nature of the index is the knowledge of the type of capture likely to be used. A search initiated by an optical scan may benefit if the index takes into account characters that are easily confused in the OCR process or includes some knowledge of the fonts used in the document. Similarly if the query is from speech recognition an index based on similar sounding phonemes may be much more efficiently searched. An additional factor that may affect the use of the index in the described model is the importance of iterative feedback during the recognition process. If the search engine is able to provide feedback from the index as the text is being captured it can greatly increase the accuracy of the capture.

If the index is likely to be searched using the offset based autocorrelation OCR methods described in Section 9 in some embodiments the system stores the appropriate offset or signature information in an index.

Lastly in the described system it may be common to conduct searches on many indices. Indices may be maintained on several machines on a corporate network. Partial indices may be downloaded to the capture device or to a machine close to the capture device. Separate indices may be created for users or groups of users with particular interests habits or permissions. An index may exist for each filesystem each directory even each file on a user s hard disk. Indexes are published and subscribed to by users and by systems. It will be important then to construct indices that can be distributed updated merged and separated efficiently.

A search engine may take different actions when it recognizes that a search query originated from a paper document. The engine might handle the query in a way that is more tolerant to the types of errors likely to appear in certain capture methods for example.

It may be able to deduce this from some indicator included in the query for example a flag indicating the nature of the capture or it may deduce this from the query itself for example it may recognize errors or uncertainties typical of the OCR process .

Alternatively queries from a capture device can reach the engine by a different channel or port or type of connection than those from other sources and can be distinguished in that way. For example some embodiments of the system will route queries to the search engine by way of a dedicated gateway. Thus the search engine knows that all queries passing through the dedicated gateway were originated from a paper document.

Section 13 below describes a variety of different factors which are external to the captured text itself yet which can be a significant aid in identifying a document. These include such things as the history of recent scans the longer term reading habits of a particular user the geographic location of a user and the user s recent use of particular electronic documents. Such factors are referred to herein as context. 

Some of the context may be handled by the search engine itself and be reflected in the search results. For example the search engine may keep track of a user s scanning history and may also cross reference this scanning history to conventional keyboard based queries. In such cases the search engine maintains and uses more state information about each individual user than do most conventional search engines and each interaction with a search engine may be considered to extend over several searches and a longer period of time than is typical today.

Some of the context may be transmitted to the search engine in the search query Section 3.3 and may possibly be stored at the engine so as to play a part in future queries. Lastly some of the context will best be handled elsewhere and so becomes a filter or secondary search applied to the results from the search engine.

An important input into the search process is the broader context of how the community of users is interacting with the rendered version of the document for example which documents are most widely read and by whom. There are analogies with a web search returning the pages that are most frequently linked to or those that are most frequently selected from past search results. For further discussion of this topic see Sections 13.4 and 14.2.

The described system can emit and use not only information about documents as a whole but also information about sub regions of documents even down to individual words. Many existing search engines concentrate simply on locating a document or file that is relevant to a particular query. Those that can work on a finer grain and identify a location within a document will provide a significant benefit for the described system.

The search engine may use some of the further information it now maintains to affect the results returned.

The system may also return certain documents to which the user has access only as a result of being in possession of the paper copy Section 7.4 .

The search engine may also offer new actions or options appropriate to the described system beyond simple retrieval of the text.

In addition to performing the capture search retrieve process the described system also associates extra functionality with a document and in particular with specific locations or segments of text within a document. This extra functionality is often though not exclusively associated with the rendered document by being associated with its electronic counterpart. As an example hyperlinks in a web page could have the same functionality when a printout of that web page is scanned. In some cases the functionality is not defined in the electronic document but is stored or generated elsewhere.

One way to think of the markup is as an overlay on the document which provides further information about and may specify actions associated with the document or some portion of it. The markup may include human readable content but is often invisible to a user and or intended for machine use. Examples include options to be displayed in a popup menu on a nearby display when a user captures text from a particular area in a rendered document or audio samples that illustrate the pronunciation of a particular phrase.

Any document may have multiple overlays simultaneously and these may be sourced from a variety of locations. Markup data may be created or supplied by the author of the document or by the user or by some other party.

Markup data may be attached to the electronic document or embedded in it. It may be found in a conventional location for example in the same place as the document but with a different filename suffix . Markup data may be included in the search results of the query that located the original document or may be found by a separate query to the same or another search engine. Markup data may be found using the original captured text and other capture information or contextual information or it may be found using already deduced information about the document and location of the capture. Markup data may be found in a location specified in the document even if the markup itself is not included in the document.

The markup may be largely static and specific to the document similar to the way links on a traditional html web page are often embedded as static data within the html document but markup may also be dynamically generated and dr applied to a large number of documents. An example of dynamic markup is information attached to a document that includes the up to date share price of companies mentioned in that document. An example of broadly applied markup is translation information that is automatically available on multiple documents or sections of documents in a particular language.

Users may also install or subscribe to particular sources of markup data thus personalizing the system s response to particular captures.

Some elements in documents may have particular markup or functionality associated with them based on their own characteristics rather than their location in a particular document. Examples include special marks that are printed in the document purely for the purpose of being scanned as well as logos and trademarks that can link the user to further information about the organization concerned. The same applies to keywords or key phrases in the text. Organizations might register particular phrases with which they are associated or with which they would like to be associated and attach certain markup to them that would be available wherever that phrase was scanned.

Any word phrase etc. may have associated markup. For example the system may add certain items to a pop up menu e.g. a link to an online bookstore whenever the user captures the word book or the title of a book or a topic related to books. In some embodiments of the system digital counterpart documents or indices are consulted to determine whether a capture occurred near the word book or the title of a book or a topic related to books and the system behavior is modified in accordance with this proximity to keyword elements. In the preceding example note that markup enables data captured from non commercial text or documents to trigger a commercial transaction.

Annotations are another type of electronic information that may be associated with a document. For example a user can attach an audio file of his her thoughts about a particular document for later retrieval as voice annotations. As another example of a multimedia annotation a user may attach photographs of places referred to in the document. The user generally supplies annotations for the document but the system can associate annotations from other sources for example other users in a work group may share annotations .

An important example of user sourced markup is the annotation of paper documents as part of a proofreading editing or reviewing process.

As mentioned earlier markup data may often be supplied by third parties such as by other readers of the document. Online discussions and reviews are a good example as are community managed information relating to particular works volunteer contributed translations and explanations.

By analyzing the data captured from documents by several or all users of the system markup can be generated based on the activities and interests of a community. An example might be an online bookstore that creates markup or annotations that tell the user in effect People who enjoyed this book also enjoyed . . . . The markup may be less anonymous and may tell the user which of the people in his her contact list have also read this document recently. Other examples of datastream analysis are included in Section 14.

Markup will often be based on external events and data sources such as input from a corporate database information from the public Internet or statistics gathered by the local operating system.

Data sources may also be more local and in particular may provide information about the user s context his her identity location and activities. For example the system might communicate with the user s mobile phone and offer a markup layer that gives the user the option to send a document to somebody that the user has recently spoken to on the phone.

In many situations the identity of the user will be known. Sometimes this will be an anonymous identity where the user is identified only by the serial number of the capture device for example. Typically however it is expected that the system will have a much more detailed knowledge of the user which can be used for personalizing the system and to allow activities and transactions to be performed in the user s name.

One of the simplest and yet most useful functions that the system can perform is to keep a record for a user of the text that s he has captured and any further information related to that capture including the details of any documents found the location within that document and any actions taken as a result.

The user can be presented with a Life Library a record of everything s he has read and captured. This may be simply for personal interest but may be used for example in a library by an academic who is gathering material for the bibliography of his next paper.

In some circumstances the user may wish to make the library public such as by publishing it on the web in a similar manner to a weblog so that others may see what s he is reading and finds of interest.

Lastly in situations where the user captures some text and the system cannot immediately act upon the capture for example because an electronic version of the document is not yet available the capture can be stored in the library and can be processed later either automatically or in response to a user request. A user can also subscribe to new markup services and apply them to previously captured scans.

A record of a user s past captures is also useful for the system. Many aspects of the system operation can be enhanced by knowing the user s reading habits and history. The simplest example is that any scan made by a user is more likely to come from a document that the user has scanned in the recent past and in particular if the previous scan was within the last few minutes it is very likely to be from the same document. Similarly it is more likely that a document is being read in start to finish order. Thus for English documents it is also more likely that later scans will occur farther down in the document. Such factors can help the system establish the location of the capture in cases of ambiguity and can also reduce the amount of text that needs to be captured.

Because the capture process generally begins with a device of some sort typically an optical scanner or voice recorder this device may be used as a key that identifies the user and authorizes certain actions.

The device may be embedded in a mobile phone or in some other way associated with a mobile phone account. For example a scanner may be associated with a mobile phone account by inserting a SIM card associated with the account into the scanner. Similarly the device may be embedded in a credit card or other payment card or have the system for such a card to be connected to it. The device may therefore be used as a payment token and financial transactions may be initiated by the capture from the rendered document.

The scanner may also be associated with a particular user or account through the process of scanning some token symbol or text associated with that user or account. In addition scanner may be used for biometric identification for example by scanning the fingerprint of the user. In the case of an audio based capture device the system may identify the user by matching the voice pattern of the user or by requiring the user to speak a certain password or phrase.

For example where a user scans a quote from a book and is offered the option to buy the book from an online retailer the user can select this option and is then prompted to scan his her fingerprint to confirm the transaction.

When the capture device is used to identify and authenticate the user and to initiate transactions on behalf of the user it is important that communications between the device and other parts of the system are secure. It is also important to guard against such situations as another device impersonating a scanner and so called man in the middle attacks where communications between the device and other components are intercepted.

Techniques for providing such security are well understood in the art in various embodiments the hardware and software in the device and elsewhere in the system are configured to implement such techniques.

An advantage of the described system is that there is no need to alter the traditional processes of creating printing or publishing documents in order to gain many of the system s benefits. There are reasons though that the creators or publishers of a document hereafter simply referred to as the publishers may wish to create functionality to support the described system.

This section is primarily concerned with the published documents themselves. For information about other related commercial transactions such as advertising see Section 10 entitled P Commerce. 

The system allows for printed documents to have an associated electronic presence. Conventionally publishers often ship a CD ROM with a book that contains further digital information tutorial movies and other multimedia data sample code or documents or further reference materials. In addition some publishers maintain web sites associated with particular publications which provide such materials as well as information which may be updated after the time of publishing such as errata further comments updated reference materials bibliographies and further sources of relevant data and translations into other languages. Online forums allow readers to contribute their comments about the publication.

The described system allows such materials to be much more closely tied to the rendered document than ever before and allows the discovery of and interaction with them to be much easier for the user. By capturing a portion of text from the document the system can automatically connect the user to digital materials associated with the document and more particularly associated with that specific part of the document. Similarly the user can be connected to online communities that discuss that section of the text or to annotations and commentaries by other readers. In the past such information would typically need to be found by searching for a particular page number or chapter.

Some publishers may have mailing lists to which readers can subscribe if they wish to be notified of new relevant matter or when a new edition of the book is published. With the described system the user can register an interest in particular documents or parts of documents more easily in some cases even before the publisher has considered providing any such functionality. The reader s interest can be fed to the publisher possibly affecting their decision about when and where to provide updates further information new editions or even completely new publications on topics that have proved to be of interest in existing books.

Many aspects of the system are enabled simply through the use of the text already existing in a document. If the document is produced in the knowledge that it may be used in conjunction with the system however extra functionality can be added by printing extra information in the form of special marks which may be used to identify the text or a required action more closely or otherwise enhance the document s interaction with the system. The simplest and most important example is an indication to the reader that the document is definitely accessible through the system. A special icon might be used for example to indicate that this document has an online discussion forum associated with it.

Such symbols may be intended purely for the reader or they may be recognized by the system when scanned and used to initiate some action. Sufficient data may be encoded in the symbol to identify more than just the symbol it may also store information for example about the document edition and location of the symbol which could be recognized and read by the system.

There are some situations where possession of or access to the printed document would entitle the user to certain privileges for example the access to an electronic copy of the document or to additional materials. With the described system such privileges could be granted simply as a result of the user capturing portions of text from the document or scanning specially printed symbols. In cases where the system needed to ensure that the user was in possession of the entire document it might prompt the user to scan particular items or phrases from particular pages e.g. the second line of page 46. 

If the printed document is a gateway to extra materials and functionality access to such features can also be time limited. After the expiry date a user may be required to pay a fee or obtain a newer version of the document to access the features again. The paper document will of course still be usable but will lose some of its enhanced electronic functionality. This may be desirable for example because there is profit for the publisher in receiving fees for access to electronic materials or in requiring the user to purchase new editions from time to time or because there are disadvantages associated with outdated versions of the printed document remaining in circulation. Coupons are an example of a type of commercial document that can have an expiration date.

Section 10.5 discusses the use of the system s statistics to influence compensation of authors and pricing of advertisements.

In some embodiments the system deduces the popularity of a publication from the activity in the electronic community associated with it as well as from the use of the paper document. These factors may help publishers to make decisions about what they will publish in future. If a chapter in an existing book for example turns out to be exceedingly popular it may be worth expanding into a separate publication.

An important aspect of the described system is the ability to provide to a user who has access to a rendered copy of a document access to an electronic version of that document. In some cases a document is freely available on a public network or a private network to which the user has access. The system uses the captured text to identify locate and retrieve the document in some cases displaying it on the user s screen or depositing it in their email inbox.

In some cases a document will be available in electronic form but for a variety of reasons may not be accessible to the user. There may not be sufficient connectivity to retrieve the document the user may not be entitled to retrieve it there may be a cost associated with gaining access to it or the document may have been withdrawn and possibly replaced by a new version to name just a few possibilities. The system typically provides feedback to the user about these situations.

As mentioned in Section 7.4 the degree or nature of the access granted to a particular user may be different if it is known that the user already has access to a printed copy of the document.

Access to the document may be restricted to specific users or to those meeting particular criteria or may only be available in certain circumstances for example when the user is connected to a secure network. Section 6 describes some of the ways in which the credentials of a user and scanner may be established.

Documents that are not freely available to the general public may still be accessible on payment of a fee often as compensation to the publisher or copyright holder. The system may implement payment facilities directly or may make use of other payment methods associated with the user including those described in Section 6.2.

Electronic documents are often transient the digital source version of a rendered document may be available now but inaccessible in future. The system may retrieve and store the existing version on behalf of the user even if the user has not requested it thus guaranteeing its availability should the user request it in future. This also makes it available for the system s use for example for searching as part of the process of identifying future captures.

In the event that payment is required for access to the document a trusted document escrow service can retrieve the document on behalf of the user such as upon payment of a modest fee with the assurance that the copyright holder will be fully compensated in future if the user should ever request the document from the service.

Variations on this theme can be implemented if the document is not available in electronic form at the time of capture. The user can authorize the service to submit a request for or make a payment for the document on his her behalf if the electronic document should become available at a later date.

Sometimes payment may be waived reduced or satisfied based on the user s existing association with another account or subscription. Subscribers to the printed version of a newspaper might automatically be entitled to retrieve the electronic version for example.

In other cases the association may not be quite so direct a user may be granted access based on an account established by their employer or based on their scanning of a printed copy owned by a friend who is a subscriber.

The process of capturing text from a paper document identifying an electronic original and printing that original or some portion of that original associated with the capture forms an alternative to traditional photocopying with many advantages 

When documents are particularly valuable as in the case of legal instruments or documents that have historical or other particular significance people may typically work from copies of those documents often for many years while the originals are kept in a safe location.

The described system could be coupled to a database which records the location of an original document for example in an archiving warehouse making it easy for somebody with access to a copy to locate the archived original paper document.

Optical Character Recognition OCR technologies have traditionally focused on images that include a large amount of text for example from a flat bed scanner capturing a whole page. OCR technologies often need substantial training and correcting by the user to produce useful text. OCR technologies often require substantial processing power on the machine doing the OCR and while many systems use a dictionary they are generally expected to operate on an effectively infinite vocabulary.

While this section focuses on OCR many of the issues discussed map directly onto other recognition technologies in particular speech recognition. As mentioned in Section 3.1 the process of capturing from paper may be achieved by a user reading the text aloud into a device which captures audio. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that principles discussed here with respect to images fonts and text fragments often also apply to audio samples user speech models and phonemes.

A scanning device for use with the described system will often be small portable and low power. The scanning device may capture only a few words at a time and in some implementations does not even capture a whole character at once but rather a horizontal slice through the text many such slices being stitched together to form a recognizable signal from which the text may be deduced. The scanning device may also have very limited processing power or storage so while in some embodiments it may perform all of the OCR process itself many embodiments will depend on a connection to a more powerful device possibly at a later time to convert the captured signals into text. Lastly it may have very limited facilities for user interaction so may need to defer any requests for user input until later or operate in a best guess mode to a greater degree than is common now.

The primary new characteristic of OCR within the described system is the fact that it will in general examine images of text which exists elsewhere and which may be retrieved in digital form. An exact transcription of the text is therefore not always required from the OCR engine. The OCR system may output a set or a matrix of possible matches in some cases including probability weightings which can still be used to search for the digital original.

If the device performing the recognition is able to contact the document index at the time of processing then the OCR process can be informed by the contents of the document corpus as it progresses potentially offering substantially greater recognition accuracy.

Such a connection will also allow the device to inform the user when sufficient text has been captured to identify the digital source.

When the system has knowledge of aspects of the likely printed rendering of a document such as the font typeface used in printing or the layout of the page or which sections are in italics this too can help in the recognition process. Section 4.1.1 

9.5. Font caching determine font on host download to client As candidate source texts in the document corpus are identified the font or a rendering of it may be downloaded to the device to help with the recognition.

While component characters of a text fragment may be the most recognized way to represent a fragment of text that may be used as a document signature other representations of the text may work sufficiently well that the actual text of a text fragment need not be used when attempting to locate the text fragment in a digital document and or database or when disambiguating the representation of a text fragment into a readable form. Other representations of text fragments may provide benefits that actual text representations lack. For example optical character recognition of text fragments is often prone to errors unlike other representations of captured text fragments that may be used to search for and or recreate a text fragment without resorting to optical character recognition for the entire fragment. Such methods may be more appropriate for some devices used with the current system.

Those of ordinary skill in the art and others will appreciate that there are many ways of describing the appearance of text fragments. Such characterizations of text fragments may include but are not limited to word lengths relative word lengths character heights character widths character shapes character frequencies token frequencies and the like. In some embodiments the offsets between matching text tokens i.e. the number of intervening tokens plus one are used to characterize fragments of text.

Conventional OCR uses knowledge about fonts letter structure and shape to attempt to determine characters in scanned text. Embodiments of the present invention are different they employ a variety of methods that use the rendered text itself to assist in the recognition process. These embodiments use characters or tokens to recognize each other. One way to refer to such self recognition is template matching and is similar to convolution. To perform such self recognition the system slides a copy of the text horizontally over itself and notes matching regions of the text images. Prior template matching and convolution techniques encompass a variety of related techniques. These techniques to tokenize and or recognize characters tokens will be collectively referred to herein as autocorrelation as the text is used to correlate with its own component parts when matching characters tokens.

When autocorrelating complete connected regions that match are of interest. This occurs when characters or groups of characters overlay other instances of the same character or group . Complete connected regions that match automatically provide tokenizing of the text into component tokens. As the two copies of the text are slid past each other the regions where perfect matching occurs i.e. all pixels in a vertical slice are matched are noted. When a character token matches itself the horizontal extent of this matching e.g. the connected matching portion of the text also matches.

Note that at this stage there is no need to determine the actual identity of each token i.e. the particular letter digit or symbol or group of these that corresponds to the token image only the offset to the next occurrence of the same token in the scanned text. The offset number is the distance number of tokens to the next occurrence of the same token. If the token is unique within the text string the offset is zero 0 . The sequence of token offsets thus generated is a signature that can be used to identify the scanned text.

In some embodiments the token offsets determined for a string of scanned tokens are compared to an index that indexes a corpus of electronic documents based upon the token offsets of their contents Section 4.1.2 . In other embodiments the token offsets determined for a string of scanned tokens are converted to text and compared to a more conventional index that indexes a corpus of electronic documents based upon their contents

As has been noted earlier a similar token correlation process may be applied to speech fragments when the capture process consists of audio samples of spoken words.

Conventional template matching OCR compares scanned images to a library of character images. In essence the alphabet is stored for each font and newly scanned images are compared to the stored images to find matching characters. The process generally has an initial delay until the correct font has been identified. After that the OCR process is relatively quick because most documents use the same font throughout. Subsequent images can therefore be converted to text by comparison with the most recently identified font library.

The shapes of characters in most commonly used fonts are related. For example in most fonts the letter c and the letter e are visually related as are t and f etc. The OCR process is enhanced by use of this relationship to construct templates for letters that have not been scanned yet. For example where a reader scans a short string of text from a paper document in a previously unencountered font such that the system does not have a set of image templates with which to compare the scanned images the system can leverage the probable relationship between certain characters to construct the font template library even though it has not yet encountered all of the letters in the alphabet. The system can then use the constructed font template library to recognize subsequent scanned text and to further refine the constructed font library.

When images cannot be machine transcribed into a form suitable for use in a search process the images themselves can be saved for later use by the user for possible manual transcription or for processing at a later date when different resources may be available to the system.

Many of the actions made possible by the system result in some commercial transaction taking place. The phrase p commerce is used herein to describe commercial activities initiated from paper via the system.

When a user captures text from a document the user may be offered that document for purchase either in paper or electronic form. The user may also be offered related documents such as those quoted or otherwise referred to in the paper document or those on a similar subject or those by the same author.

The capture of text may be linked to other commercial activities in a variety of ways. The captured text may be in a catalog that is explicitly designed to sell items in which case the text will be associated fairly directly with the purchase of an item Section 18.2 . The text may also be part of an advertisement in which case a sale of the item being advertised may ensue.

In other cases the user captures other text from which their potential interest in a commercial transaction may be deduced. A reader of a novel set in a particular country for example might be interested in a holiday there. Someone reading a review of a new car might be considering purchasing it. The user may capture a particular fragment of text knowing that some commercial opportunity will be presented to them as a result or it may be a side effect of their capture activities.

Sometimes text or symbols are actually printed on an item or its packaging. An example is the serial number or product id often found on a label on the back or underside of a piece of electronic equipment. The system can offer the user a convenient way to purchase one or more of the same items by capturing that text. They may also be offered manuals support or repair services.

In addition to the direct capture of text from an advertisement the system allows for a new kind of advertising which is not necessarily explicitly in the rendered document but is nonetheless based on what people are reading.

In a traditional paper publication advertisements generally consume a large amount of space relative to the text of a newspaper article and a limited number of them can be placed around a particular article. In the described system advertising can be associated with individual words or phrases and can selected according to the particular interest the user has shown by capturing that text and possibly taking into account their history of past scans.

With the described system it is possible for a purchase to be tied to a particular printed document and for an advertiser to get significantly more feedback about the effectiveness of their advertising in particular print publications.

The system may gather a large amount of information about other aspects of a user s context for its own use Section 13 estimates of the geographical location of the user are a good example. Such data can also be used to tailor the advertising presented to a user of the system.

The system enables some new models of compensation for advertisers and marketers. The publisher of a printed document containing advertisements may receive some income from a purchase that originated from their document. This may be true whether or not the advertisement existed in the original printed form it may have been added electronically either by the publisher the advertiser or some third party and the sources of such advertising may have been subscribed to by the user.

Analysis of the statistics generated by the system can reveal the popularity of certain parts of a publication Section 14.2 . In a newspaper for example it might reveal the amount of time readers spend looking at a particular page or article or the popularity of a particular columnist. In some circumstances it may be appropriate for an author or publisher to receive compensation based on the activities of the readers rather than on more traditional metrics such as words written or number of copies distributed. An author whose work becomes a frequently read authority on a subject might be considered differently in future contracts from one whose books have sold the same number of copies but are rarely opened. See also Section 7.6 

Decisions about advertising in a document may also be based on statistics about the readership. The advertising space around the most popular columnists may be sold at a premium rate. Advertisers might even be charged or compensated some time after the document is published based on knowledge about how it was received.

The Life Library or scan history described in Sections 6.1 and 16.1 can be an extremely valuable source of information about the interests and habits of a user. Subject to the appropriate consent and privacy issues such data can inform offers of goods or services to the user. Even in an anonymous form the statistics gathered can be exceedingly useful.

Advertising and other opportunities for commercial transactions may not be presented to the user immediately at the time of text capture. For example the opportunity to purchase a sequel to a novel may not be available at the time the user is reading the novel but the system may present them with that opportunity when the sequel is published.

A user may capture data that relates to a purchase or other commercial transaction but may choose not to initiate and or complete the transaction at the time the capture is made. In some embodiments data related to captures is stored in a user s Life Library and these Life Library entries can remain active i.e. capable of subsequent interactions similar to those available at the time the capture was made . Thus a user may review a capture at some later time and optionally complete a transaction based on that capture. Because the system can keep track of when and where the original capture occurred all parties involved in the transaction can be properly compensated. For example the author who wrote the story and the publisher who published the story that appeared next to the advertisement from which the user captured data can be compensated when six months later the user visits their Life Library selects that particular capture from the history and chooses Purchase this item at Amazon from the pop up menu which can be similar or identical to the menu optionally presented at the time of the capture .

Modern Operating Systems OSs and other software packages have many characteristics that can be advantageously exploited for use with the described system and may also be modified in various ways to provide an even better platform for its use.

New and upcoming file systems and their associated databases often have the ability to store a variety of metadata associated with each file. Traditionally this metadata has included such things as the ID of the user who created the file the dates of creation last modification and last use. Newer file systems allow such extra information as keywords image characteristics document sources and user comments to be stored and in some systems this metadata can be arbitrarily extended. File systems can therefore be used to store information that would be useful in implementing the current system. For example the date when a given document was last printed can be stored by the file system as can details about which text from it has been captured from paper using the described system and when and by whom.

Operating systems are also starting to incorporate search engine facilities that allow users to find local files more easily. These facilities can be advantageously used by the system. It means that many of the search related concepts discussed in Sections 3 and 4 apply not just to today s Internet based and similar search engines but also to every personal computer.

In some cases specific software applications will also include support for the system above and beyond the facilities provided by the OS.

As the use of capture devices such as pen scanners becomes increasingly common it will become desirable to build support for them into the operating system in much the same way as support is provided for mice and printers since the applicability of capture devices extends beyond a single software application. The same will be true for other aspects of the system s operation. Some examples are discussed below. In some embodiments the entire described system or the core of it is provided by the OS. In some embodiments support for the system is provided by Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be used by other software packages including those directly implementing aspects of the system.

Most of the methods of capturing text from a rendered document require some recognition software to interpret the source data typically a scanned image or some spoken words as text suitable for use in the system. Some OSs include support for speech or handwriting recognition though it is less common for OSs to include support for OCR since in the past the use of OCR has typically been limited to a small range of applications.

As recognition components become part of the OS they can take better advantage of other facilities provided by the OS. Many systems include spelling dictionaries grammar analysis tools internationalization and localization facilities for example all of which can be advantageously employed by the described system for its recognition process especially since they may have been customized for the particular user to include words and phrases that he she would commonly encounter.

If the operating system includes full text indexing facilities then these can also be used to inform the recognition process as described in Section 9.3.

If an optical scan or other capture occurs and is presented to the OS it may have a default action to be taken under those circumstances in the event that no other subsystem claims ownership of the capture. An example of a default action is presenting the user with a choice of alternatives or submitting the captured text to the OS s built in search facilities.

If the digital source of the rendered document is found the OS may have a standard action that it will take when that particular document or a document of that class is scanned. Applications and other subsystems may register with the OS as potential handlers of particular types of capture in a similar manner to the announcement by applications of their ability to handle certain file types.

Markup data associated with a rendered document or with a capture from a document can include instructions to the operating system to launch specific applications pass applications arguments parameters or data etc.

In Section 12.1.3 the use of gestures is discussed particularly in the case of optical scanning where particular movements made with a handheld scanner might represent standard actions such as marking the start and end of a region of text.

This is analogous to actions such as pressing the shift key on a keyboard while using the cursor keys to select a region of text or using the wheel on a mouse to scroll a document. Such actions by the user are sufficiently standard that they are interpreted in a system wide way by the OS thus ensuring consistent behavior. The same is desirable for scanner gestures and other scanner related actions.

In a similar way certain items of text or other symbols may when scanned cause standard actions to occur and the OS may provide a selection of these. An example might be that scanning the text print in any document would cause the OS to retrieve and print a copy of that document. The OS may also provide a way to register such actions and associate them with particular scans.

Most software applications are based substantially on standard Graphical User Interface components provided by the OS.

Use of these components by developers helps to ensure Consistent behavior across multiple packages for example that pressing the left cursor key in any text editing context should move the cursor to the left without every programmer having to implement the same functionality independently.

A similar consistency in these components is desirable when the activities are initiated by text capture or other aspects of the described system. Some examples are given below.

A typical use of the system may be for the user to scan an area of a paper document and for the system to open the electronic counterpart in a software package that is able to display or edit it and cause that package to scroll to and highlight the scanned text Section 12.2.1 . The first part of this process finding and opening the electronic document is typically provided by the OS and is standard across software packages. The second part however locating a particular piece of text within a document and causing the package to scroll to it and highlight it is not yet standardized and is often implemented differently by each package. The availability of a standard API for this functionality could greatly enhance the operation of this aspect of the system.

Once a piece of text has been located within a document the system may wish to perform a variety of operations upon that text. As an example the system may request the surrounding text so that the user s capture of a few words could result in the system accessing the entire sentence or paragraph containing them. Again this functionality can be usefully provided by the OS rather than being implemented in every piece of software that handles text.

Some of the operations that are enabled by the system will require user feedback and this may be optimally requested within the context of the application handling the data. In some embodiments the system uses the application pop up menus traditionally associated with clicking the right mouse button on some text. The system inserts extra options into such menus and causes them to be displayed as a result of activities such as scanning a paper document.

In today s increasingly networked world much of the functionality available on individual machines can also be accessed over a network and the functionality associated with the described system is no exception. As an example in an office environment many paper documents received by a user may have been printed by other users machines on the same corporate network. The system on one computer in response to a capture may be able to query those other machines for documents which may correspond to that capture subject to the appropriate permission controls.

An important factor in the integration of paper and digital documents is maintaining as much information as possible about the transitions between the two. In some embodiments the OS keeps a simple record of when any document was printed and by whom. In some embodiments the OS takes one or more further actions that would make it better suited for use with the system. Examples include 

An OS often maintains certain categories of folders or files that have particular significance. A user s documents may by convention or design be found in a My Documents folder for example. Standard file opening dialogs may automatically include a list of recently opened documents.

On an OS optimized for use with the described system such categories may be enhanced or augmented in ways that take into account a user s interaction with paper versions of the stored files. Categories such as My Printed Documents or My Recently Read Documents might usefully be identified and incorporated in its operations.

Since Important Aspects of the System are Typically Provided Using the markup concepts discussed in Section 5 it would clearly be advantageous to have support for such markup provided by the OS in a way that was accessible to multiple applications as well as to the OS itself. In addition layers of markup may be provided by the OS based on its own knowledge of documents under its control and the facilities it is able to provide.

An increasing number of operating systems support some form of Digital Rights Management the ability to control the use of particular data according to the rights granted to a particular user software entity or machine. It may inhibit unauthorized copying or distribution of a particular document for example.

The user interface of the system may be entirely on a PC if the capture device is relatively dumb and is connected to it by a cable or entirely on the device if it is sophisticated and with significant processing power of its own. In some cases some functionality resides in each component. Part or indeed all of the system s functionality may also be implemented on other devices such as mobile phones or PDAs.

The descriptions in the following sections are therefore indications of what may be desirable in certain implementations but they are not necessarily appropriate for all and may be modified in several ways.

With all capture devices but particularly in the case of an optical scanner the user s attention will generally be on the device and the paper at the time of scanning. It is very desirable then that any input and feedback needed as part of the process of scanning do not require the user s attention to be elsewhere for example on the screen of a computer more than is necessary.

A handheld scanner may have a variety of ways of providing feedback to the user about particular conditions. The most obvious types are direct visual where the scanner incorporates indicator lights or even a full display and auditory where the scanner can make beeps clicks or other sounds. Important alternatives include tactile feedback where the scanner can vibrate buzz or otherwise stimulate the user s sense of touch and projected feedback where it indicates a status by projecting onto the paper anything from a colored spot of light to a sophisticated display.

Many of the user interactions normally associated with the later stages of the system may also take place on the capture device if it has sufficient abilities for example to display part or all of a document.

The device may provide a variety of ways for the user to provide input in addition to basic text capture. Even when the device is in close association with a host machine that has input options such as keyboards and mice it can be disruptive for the user to switch back and forth between manipulating the scanner and using a mouse for example.

The handheld scanner may have buttons scroll jog wheels touch sensitive surfaces and or accelerometers for detecting the movement of the device. Some of these allow a richer set of interactions while still holding the scanner.

For example in response to scanning some text the system presents the user with a set of several possible matching documents. The user uses a scroll wheel on the side of the scanner is to select one from the list and clicks a button to confirm the selection.

The primary reason for moving a scanner across the paper is to capture text but some movements may be detected by the device and used to indicate other user intentions. Such movements are referred to herein as gestures. 

As an example the user can indicate a large region of text by scanning the first few words in conventional left to right order and the last few in reverse order i.e. right to left. The user can also indicate the vertical extent of the text of interest by moving the scanner down the page over several lines. A backwards scan might indicate cancellation of the previous scan operation.

Many aspects of the system may depend on network connectivity either between components of the system such as a scanner and a host laptop or with the outside world in the form of a connection to corporate databases and Internet search. This connectivity may not be present all the time however and so there will be occasions when part or all of the system may be considered to be offline. It is desirable to allow the system to continue to function usefully in those circumstances.

The device may be used to capture text when it is out of contact with other parts of the system. A very simple device may simply be able to store the image or audio data associated with the capture ideally with a timestamp indicating when it was captured. The various captures may be uploaded to the rest of the system when the device is next in contact with it and handled then. The device may also upload other data associated with the captures for example voice annotations associated with optical scans or location information.

More sophisticated devices may be able to perform some or all of the system operations themselves despite being disconnected. Various techniques for improving their ability to do so are discussed in Section 15.3. Often it will be the case that some but not all of the desired actions can be performed while offline. For example the text may be recognized but identification of the source may depend on a connection to an Internet based search engine. In some embodiments the device therefore stores sufficient information about how far each operation has progressed for the rest of the system to proceed efficiently when connectivity is restored.

The operation of the system will in general benefit from immediately available connectivity but there are some situations in which performing several captures and then processing them as a batch can have advantages. For example as discussed in Section 13 below the identification of the source of a particular capture may be greatly enhanced by examining other captures made by the user at approximately the same time. In a fully connected system where live feedback is being provided to the user the system is only able to use past captures when processing the current one. If the capture is one of a batch stored by the device when offline however the system will be able to take into account any data available from later captures as well as earlier ones when doing its analysis.

A scanner will often communicate with some other device such as a PC PDA phone or digital camera to perform many of the functions of the system including more detailed interactions with the user.

When the host device receives a capture it may initiate a variety of activities. An incomplete list of possible activities performed by the system after locating and electronic counterpart document associated with the capture and a location within that document follows.

Sometimes the appropriate action to be taken by the system will be obvious but sometimes it will require a choice to be made by the user. One good way to do this is through the use of popup menus or in cases where the content is also being displayed on a screen with so called contextual menus that appear close to the content. See Section 11.3.3 . In some embodiments the scanner device projects a popup menu onto the paper document. A user may select from such menus using traditional methods such as a keyboard and mouse or by using controls on the capture device Section 12.1.2 gestures Section 12.1.3 or by interacting with the computer display using the scanner Section 12.2.4 . In some embodiments the popup menus which can appear as a result of a capture include default items representing actions which occur if the user does not respond for example if the user ignores the menu and makes another capture.

When a user starts capturing text there will initially be several documents or other text locations that it could match. As more text is captured and other factors are taken into account Section 13 the number of candidate locations will decrease until the actual location is identified or further disambiguation is not possible without user input. In some embodiments the system provides a real time display of the documents or the locations found for example in list thumbnail image or text segment form and for the number of elements in that display to reduce in number as capture continues. In some embodiments the system displays thumbnails of all candidate documents where the size or position of the thumbnail is dependent on the probability of it being the correct match.

When a capture is unambiguously identified this fact may be emphasized to the user for example using audio feedback.

Sometimes the text captured will occur in many documents and will be recognized to be a quotation. The system may indicate this on the screen for example by grouping documents containing a quoted reference around the original source document.

Some optical scanners may be able to capture text displayed on a screen as well as on paper. Accordingly the term rendered document is used herein to indicate that printing onto paper is not the only form of rendering and that the capture of text or symbols for use by the system may be equally valuable when that text is displayed on an electronic display.

The user of the described system may be required to interact with a computer screen for a variety of other reasons such as to select from a list of options. It can be inconvenient for the user to put down the scanner and start using the mouse or keyboard. Other sections have described physical controls on the scanner Section 12.1.2 or gestures Section 12.1.3 as methods of input which do not require this change of tool but using the scanner on the screen itself to scan some text or symbol is an important alternative provided by the system.

In some embodiments the optics of the scanner allow it to be used in a similar manner to a light pen directly sensing its position on the screen without the need for actual scanning of text possibly with the aid of special hardware or software on the computer.

An important aspect of the described system is the use of other factors beyond the simple capture of a string of text to help identify the document in use. A capture of a modest amount of text may often identify the document uniquely but in many situations it will identify a few candidate documents. One solution is to prompt the user to confirm the document being scanned but a preferable alternative is to make use of other factors to narrow down the possibilities automatically. Such supplemental information can dramatically reduce the amount of text that needs to be captured and or increase the reliability and speed with which the location in the electronic counterpart can be identified. This extra material is referred to as context and it was discussed briefly in Section 4.2.2. We now consider it in more depth.

It is highly probable that any given capture comes from the same document as the previous one or from an associated document especially if the previous capture took place in the last few minutes Section 6.1.2 . Conversely if the system detects that the font has changed between two scans it is more likely that they are from different documents.

Also useful are the user s longer term capture history and reading habits. These can also be used to develop a model of the user s interests and associations.

Another example of useful context is the user s geographical location. A user in Paris is much more likely to be reading Le Monde than the Seattle Times for example. The timing size and geographical distribution of printed versions of the documents can therefore be important and can to some degree be deduced from the operation of the system.

The time of day may also be relevant for example in the case of a user who always reads one type of publication on the way to work and a different one at lunchtime or on the train going home.

The user s recent use of electronic documents including those searched for or retrieved by more conventional means can also be a helpful indicator.

All of these examples might suggest that a user was more likely to be reading a paper version of those documents. In contrast if the repository in which a document resides can affirm that the document has never been printed or sent anywhere where it might have been printed then it can be safely eliminated in any searches originating from paper.

Section 14 covers the analysis of the data stream resulting from paper based searches but it should be noted here that statistics about the popularity of documents with other readers about the timing of that popularity and about the parts of documents most frequently scanned are all examples of further factors which can be beneficial in the search process. The system brings the possibility of Google type page ranking to the world of paper.

The use of the system generates an exceedingly valuable data stream as a side effect. This stream is a record of what users are reading and when and is in many cases a record of what they find particularly valuable in the things they read. Such data has never really been available before for paper documents.

Some ways in which this data can be useful for the system and for the user of the system are described in Section 6.1. This section concentrates on its use for others. There are of course substantial privacy issues to be considered with any distribution of data about what people are reading but such issues as preserving the anonymity of data are well known to those of skill in the art.

When the system knows which documents any given user is reading it can also deduce who is reading any given document. This allows the tracking of a document through an organization to allow analysis for example of who is reading it and when how widely it was distributed how long that distribution took and who has seen current versions while others are still working from out of date copies.

For published documents that have a wider distribution the tracking of individual copies is more difficult but the analysis of the distribution of readership is still possible.

In situations where users are capturing text or other data that is of particular interest to them the system can deduce the popularity of certain documents and of particular sub regions of those documents. This forms a valuable input to the system itself Section 4.2.2 and an important source of information for authors publishers and advertisers Section 7.6 Section 10.5 . This data is also useful when integrated in search engines and search indices for example to assist in ranking search results for queries coming from rendered documents and or to assist in ranking conventional queries typed into a web browser.

Knowledge of what a user is reading enables the system to create a quite detailed model of the user s interests and activities. This can be useful on an abstract statistical basis 35 of users who buy this newspaper also read the latest book by that author but it can also allow other interactions with the individual user as discussed below.

One example is connecting one user with others who have related interests. These may be people already known to the user. The system may ask a university professor Did you know that your colleague at XYZ University has also just read this paper The system may ask a user Do you want to be linked up with other people in your neighborhood who are also how reading Jane Eyre Such links may be the basis for the automatic formation of book clubs and similar social structures either in the physical world or online.

Section 10.6 has already mentioned the idea of offering products and services to an individual user based on their interactions with the system. Current online booksellers for example often make recommendations to a user based on their previous interactions with the bookseller. Such recommendations become much more useful when they are based on interactions with the actual books.

We have discussed some of the ways in which the system may influence those publishing documents those advertising through them and other sales initiated from paper Section 10 . Some commercial activities may have no direct interaction with the paper documents at all and yet may be influenced by them. For example the knowledge that people in one community spend more time reading the sports section of the newspaper than they do the financial section might be of interest to somebody setting up a health club.

In addition to the statistics discussed such as who is reading which bits of which documents and when and where it can be of interest to examine the actual contents of the text captured regardless of whether or not the document has been located.

In many situations the user will also not just be capturing some text but will be causing some action to occur as a result. It might be emailing a reference to the document to an acquaintance for example. Even in the absence of information about the identity of the user or the recipient of the email the knowledge that somebody considered the document worth emailing is very useful.

In addition to the various methods discussed for deducing the value of a particular document or piece of text in some circumstances the user will explicitly indicate the value by assigning it a rating.

Lastly when a particular set of users are known to form a group for example when they are known to be employees of a particular company the aggregated statistics of that group can be used to deduce the importance of a particular document to that group.

A capture device for use with the system needs little more than a way of capturing text from a rendered version of the document. As described earlier Section 1.2 this capture may be achieved through a variety of methods including taking a photograph of part of the document or typing some words into a mobile phone keypad. This capture may be achieved using a small hand held optical scanner capable of recording a line or two of text at a time or an audio capture device such as a voice recorder into which the user is reading text from the document. The device used may be a combination of these an optical scanner which could also record voice annotations for example and the capturing functionality may be built into some other device such as a mobile phone PDA digital camera or portable music player.

Many of the possibly beneficial additional input and output facilities for such a device have been described in Section 12.1. They include buttons scroll wheels and touch pads for input and displays indicator lights audio and tactile transducers for output. Sometimes the device will incorporate many of these sometimes very few. Sometimes the capture device will be able to communicate with another device that already has them Section 15.6 for example using a wireless link and sometimes the capture functionality will be incorporated into such other device Section 15.7 .

In some embodiments the device implements the majority of the system itself. In some embodiments however it often communicates with a PC or other computing device and with the wider world using communications facilities.

Often these communications facilities are in the form of a general purpose data network such as Ethernet 802.11 or UWB or a standard peripheral connecting network such as USB IEEE 1394 Firewire Bluetooth or infra red. When a wired connection such as Firewire or USB is used the device may receive electrical power though the same connection. In some circumstances the capture device may appear to a connected machine to be a conventional peripheral such as a USB storage device.

Lastly the device may in some circumstances dock with another device either to be used in conjunction with that device or for convenient storage.

Sections 3.5 and 12.1.4 have raised the topic of disconnected operation. When a capture device has a limited subset of the total system s functionality and is not in communication with the other parts of the system the device can still be useful though the functionality available will sometimes be reduced. At the simplest level the device can record the raw image or audio data being captured and this can be processed later. For the user s benefit however it can be important to give feedback where possible about whether the data captured is likely to be sufficient for the task in hand whether it can be recognized or is likely to be recognizable and whether the source of the data can be identified or is likely to be identifiable later. The user will then know whether their capturing activity is worthwhile. Even when all of the above are unknown the raw data can still be stored so that at the very least the user can refer to them later. The user may be presented with the image of a scan for example when the scan cannot be recognized by the OCR process.

To illustrate some of the range of options available both a rather minimal optical scanning device and then a much more full featured one are described below. Many devices occupy a middle ground between the two.

The SimpleScanner has a scanning head able to read pixels from the page as it is moved along the length of a line of text. It can detect its movement along the page and record the pixels with some information about the movement. It also has a clock which allows each scan to be time stamped. The clock is synchronized with a host device when the SimpleScanner has connectivity. The clock may not represent the actual time of day but relative times may be determined from it so that the host can deduce the actual time of a scan or at worst the elapsed time between scans.

The SimpleScanner does not have sufficient processing power to perform any OCR itself but it does have some basic knowledge about typical word lengths word spacings and their relationship to font size. It has some basic indicator lights which tell the user whether the scan is likely to be readable whether the head is being moved too fast too slowly or too inaccurately across the paper and when it determines that sufficient words of a given size are likely to have been scanned for the document to be identified.

The SimpleScanner has a USB connector and can be plugged into the USB port on a computer where it will be recharged. To the computer it appears to be a USB storage device on which time stamped data files have been recorded and the rest of the system software takes over from this point.

The SuperScanner also depends on connectivity for its full operation but it has a significant amount of on board storage and processing which can help it make better judgments about the data captured while offline.

As it moves along the line of text the captured pixels are stitched together and passed to an OCR engine that attempts to recognize the text. A number of fonts including those from the user s most read publications have been downloaded to it to help perform this task as has a dictionary that is synchronized with the user s spelling checker dictionary on their PC and so contains many of the words they frequently encounter. Also stored on the scanner is a list of words and phrases with the typical frequency of their use this may be combined with the dictionary. The scanner can use the frequency statistics both to help with the recognition process and also to inform its judgment about when a sufficient quantity of text has been captured more frequently used phrases are less likely to be useful as the basis for a search query.

In addition the full index for the articles in the recent issues of the newspapers and periodicals most commonly read by the user are stored on the device as are the indices for the books the user has recently purchased from an online bookseller or from which the user has scanned anything within the last few months. Lastly the titles of several thousand of the most popular publications which have data available for the system are stored so that in the absence of other information the user can scan the title and have a good idea as to whether or not captures from a particular work are likely to be retrievable in electronic form later.

During the scanning process the system informs user that the captured data has been of sufficient quality and of a sufficient nature to make it probable that the electronic copy can be retrieved when connectivity is restored. Often the system indicates to the user that the scan is known to have been successful and that the context has been recognized in one of the on board indices or that the publication concerned is known to be making its data available to the system so the later retrieval ought to be successful.

The SuperScanner docks in a cradle connected to a PC s Firewire or USB port at which point in addition to the upload of captured data its various onboard indices and other databases are updated based on recent user activity and new publications. It also has the system to connect to wireless public networks or to communicate via Bluetooth to a mobile phone and thence with the public network when such facilities are available.

We now consider some of the features that may be particularly desirable in an optical scanner device.

One of the reasons for the continuing popularity of paper is the ease of its use in a wide variety of situations where a computer for example would be impractical or inconvenient. A device intended to capture a substantial part of a user s interaction with paper should therefore be similarly convenient in use. This has not been the case for scanners in the past even the smallest hand held devices have been somewhat unwieldy. Those designed to be in contact with the page have to be held at a precise angle to the paper and moved very carefully along the length of the text to be scanned. This is acceptable when scanning a business report on an office desk but may be impractical when scanning a phrase from a novel while waiting for a train. Scanners based on camera type optics that operate at a distance from the paper may similarly be useful in some circumstances.

Some embodiments of the system use a scanner that scans in contact with the paper and which instead of lenses uses an image conduit a bundle of optical fibers to transmit the image from the page to the optical sensor device. Such a device can be shaped to allow it to be held in a natural position for example in some embodiments the part in contact with the page is wedge shaped allowing the user s hand to move more naturally over the page in a movement similar to the use of a highlighter pen. The conduit is either in direct contact with the paper or in close proximity to it and may have a replaceable transparent tip that can protect the image conduit from possible damage. As has been mentioned in Section 12.2.4 the scanner may be used to scan from a screen as well as from paper and the material of the tip can be chosen to reduce the likelihood of damage to such displays.

Lastly some embodiments of the device will provide feedback to the user during the scanning process which will indicate through the use of light sound or tactile feedback when the user is scanning too fast too slow too unevenly or is drifting too high or low on the scanned line.

As described in Section 6 the capture device may form an important part of identification and authorization for secure transactions purchases and a variety of other operations. It may therefore incorporate in addition to the circuitry and software required for such a role various hardware features that can make it more secure such as a smartcard reader RFID or a keypad on which to type a PIN.

It may also include various biometric sensors to help identify the user. In the case of an optical scanner for example the scanning head may also be able to read a fingerprint. For a voice recorder the voice pattern of the user may be used.

In some embodiments the device is able to form an association with other nearby devices to increase either its own or their functionality. In some embodiments for example it uses the display of a nearby PC or phone to give more detailed feedback about its operation or uses their network connectivity. The device may on the other hand operate in its role as a security and identification device to authenticate operations performed by the other device. Or it may simply form an association in order to function as a peripheral to that device.

An interesting aspect of such associations is that they may be initiated and authenticated using the capture facilities of the device. For example a user wishing to identify themselves securely to a public computer terminal may use the scanning facilities of the device to scan a code or symbol displayed on a particular area of the terminal s screen and so effect a key transfer. An analogous process may be performed using audio signals picked up by a voice recording device.

In some embodiments the functionality of the capture device is integrated into some other device that is already in use. The integrated devices may be able to share a power supply data capture and storage capabilities and network interfaces. Such integration may be done simply for convenience to reduce cost or to enable functionality that would not otherwise be available.

As an example of the benefits of integration we consider the use of a modified mobile phone as the capture device.

In some embodiments the phone hardware is not modified to support the system such as where the text capture can be adequately done through voice recognition where they can either be processed by the phone itself or handled by a system at the other end of a telephone call or stored in the phone s memory for future processing. Many modern phones have the ability to download software that could implement some parts of the system. Such voice capture is likely to be suboptimal in many situations however for example when there is substantial background noise and accurate voice recognition is a difficult task at the best of times. The audio facilities may best be used to capture voice annotations.

In some embodiments the camera built into many mobile phones is used to capture an image of the text. The phone display which would normally act as a viewfinder for the camera may overlay on the live camera image information about the quality of the image and its suitability for OCR which segments of text are being captured and even a transcription of the text if the OCR can be performed on the phone.

In some embodiments the phone is modified to add dedicated capture facilities or to provide such functionality in a clip on adaptor or a separate Bluetooth connected peripheral in communication with the phone. Whatever the nature of the capture mechanism the integration with a modern cellphone has many other advantages. The phone has connectivity with the wider world which means that queries can be submitted to remote search engines or other parts of the system and copies of documents may be retrieved for immediate storage or viewing. A phone typically has sufficient processing power for many of the functions of the system to be performed locally and sufficient storage to capture a reasonable amount of data. The amount of storage can also often be expanded by the user. Phones have reasonably good displays and audio facilities to provide user feedback and often a vibrate function for tactile feedback. They also have good power supplies.

This section lists example uses of the system and applications that may be built on it. This list is intended to be purely illustrative and in no sense exhaustive.

The Life Library see also Section 6.1.1 is a digital archive of any important documents that the subscriber wishes to save and is a set of embodiments of services of this system. Important books magazine articles newspaper clippings etc. can all be saved in digital form in the Life Library. Additionally the subscriber s annotations comments and notes can be saved with the documents. The Life Library can be accessed via the Internet and World Wide Web.

The system creates and manages the Life Library document archive for subscribers. The subscriber indicates which documents the subscriber wishes to have saved in his life library by scanning information from the document or by otherwise indicating to the system that the particular document is to be added to the subscriber s Life Library. The scanned information is typically text from the document but can also be a barcode or other code identifying the document. The system accepts the code and uses it to identify the source document. After the document is identified the system can store either a copy of the document in the user s Life Library or a link to a source where the document may be obtained.

One embodiment of the Life Library system can check whether the subscriber is authorized to obtain the electronic copy. For example if a reader scans text or an identifier from a copy of an article in the New York Times NYT so that the article will be added to the reader s Life Library the Life Library system will verify with the NYT whether the reader is subscribed to the online version of the NYT if so the reader gets a copy of the article stored in his Life Library account if not information identifying the document and how to order it is stored in his Life Library account.

In some embodiments the system maintains a subscriber profile for each subscriber that includes access privilege information. Document access information can be compiled in several ways two of which are 1 the subscriber supplies the document access information to the Life Library system along with his account names and passwords etc. or 2 the Life Library service provider queries the publisher with the subscriber s information and the publisher responds by providing access to an electronic copy if the Life Library subscriber is authorized to access the material. If the Life Library subscriber is not authorized to have an electronic copy of the document the publisher provides a price to the Life Library service provider which then provides the customer with the option to purchase the electronic document. If so the Life Library service provider either pays the publisher directly and bills the Life Library customer later or the Life Library service provider immediately bills the customer s credit card for the purchase. The Life Library service provider would get a percentage of the purchase price or a small fixed fee for facilitating the transaction.

The system can archive the document in the subscriber s personal library and or any other library to which the subscriber has archival privileges. For example as a user scans text from a printed document the Life Library system can identify the rendered document and its electronic counterpart. After the source document is identified the Life Library system might record information about the source document in the user s personal library and in a group library to which the subscriber has archival privileges. Group libraries are collaborative archives such as a document repository for a group working together on a project a group of academic researchers a group web log etc.

The life library can be organized in many ways chronologically by topic by level of the subscriber s interest by type of publication newspaper book magazine technical paper etc. where read when read by ISBN or by Dewey decimal etc. In one alternative the system can learn classifications based on how other subscribers have classified the same document. The system can suggest classifications to the user or automatically classify the document for the user.

In various embodiments annotations may be inserted directly into the document or may be maintained in a separate file. For example when a subscriber scans text from a newspaper article the article is archived in his Life Library with the scanned text highlighted. Alternatively the article is archived in his Life Library along with an associated annotation file thus leaving the archived document unmodified . Embodiments of the system can keep a copy of the source document in each subscriber s library a copy in a master library that many subscribers can access or link to a copy held by the publisher.

In some embodiments the Life Library stores only the user s modifications to the document e.g. highlights etc. and a link to an online version of the document stored elsewhere . The system or the subscriber merges the changes with the document when the subscriber subsequently retrieves the document.

If the annotations are kept in a separate file the source document and the annotation file are provided to the subscriber and the subscriber combines them to create a modified document. Alternatively the system combines the two files prior to presenting them to the subscriber. In another alternative the annotation file is an overlay to the document file and can be overlaid on the document by software in the subscriber s computer.

Subscribers to the Life Library service pay a monthly fee to have the system maintain the subscriber s archive. Alternatively the subscriber pays a small amount e.g. a micro payment for each document stored in the archive. Alternatively the subscriber pays to access the subscriber s archive on a per access fee. Alternatively subscribers can compile libraries and allow others to access the materials annotations on a revenue share model with the Life Library service provider and copyright holders. Alternatively the Life Library service provider receives a payment from the publisher when the Life Library subscriber orders a document a revenue share model with the publisher where the Life Library service provider gets a share of the publisher s revenue .

In some embodiments the Life Library service provider acts as an intermediary between the subscriber and the copyright holder or copyright holder s agent such as the Copyright Clearance Center a.k.a. CCC to facilitate billing and payment for copyrighted materials. The Life Library service provider uses the subscriber s billing information and other user account information to provide this intermediation service. Essentially the Life Library service provider leverages the pre existing relationship with the subscriber to enable purchase of copyrighted materials on behalf of the subscriber.

In some embodiments the Life Library system can store excerpts from documents. For example when a subscriber scans text from a paper document the regions around the scanned text are excerpted and placed in the Life Library rather than the entire document being archived in the life library. This is especially advantageous when the document is long because preserving the circumstances of the original scan prevents the subscriber from re reading the document to find the interesting portions. Of course a hyperlink to the entire electronic counterpart of the paper document can be included with the excerpt materials.

In some embodiments the system also stores information about the document in the Life Library such as author publication title publication date publisher copyright holder or copyright holder s licensing agent ISBN links to public annotations of the document readrank etc. Some of this additional information about the document is a form of paper document metadata. Third parties may create public annotation files for access by persons other than themselves such the general public. Linking to a third party s commentary on a document is advantageous because reading annotation files of other users enhances the subscriber s understanding of the document.

In some embodiments the system archives materials by class. This feature allows a Life Library subscriber to quickly store electronic counterparts to an entire class of paper documents without access to each paper document. For example when the subscriber scans some text from a copy of National Geographic magazine the system provides the subscriber with the option to archive all back issues of the National Geographic. If the subscriber elects to archive all back issues the Life Library service provider would then verify with the National Geographic Society whether the subscriber is authorized to do so. If not the Life Library service provider can mediate the purchase of the right to archive the National Geographic magazine collection.

A variation on or enhancement of the Life Library concept is the Life Saver where the system uses the text captured by a user to deduce more about their other activities. The scanning of a menu from a particular restaurant a program from a particular theater performance a timetable at a particular railway station or an article from a local newspaper allows the system to make deductions about the user s location and social activities and could construct an automatic diary for them for example as a website. The user would be able to edit and modify the diary add additional materials such as photographs and of course look again at the items scanned.

Portable scanners supported by the described system have many compelling uses in the academic setting. They can enhance student teacher interaction and augment the learning experience. Among other uses students can annotate study materials to suit their unique needs teachers can monitor classroom performance and teachers can automatically verify source materials cited in student assignments.

A child s interaction with a paper document such as a book is monitored by a literacy acquisition system that employs a specific set of embodiments of this system. The child uses a portable scanner that communicates with other elements of the literacy acquisition system. In addition to the portable scanner the literacy acquisition system includes a computer having a display and speakers and a database accessible by the computer. The scanner is coupled with the computer hardwired short range RF etc. . When the child sees an unknown word in the book the child scans it with the scanner. In one embodiment the literacy acquisition system compares the scanned text with the resources in its database to identify the word. The database includes a dictionary thesaurus and or multimedia files e.g. sound graphics etc. . After the word has been identified the system uses the computer speakers to pronounce the word and its definition to the child. In another embodiment the word and its definition are displayed by the literacy acquisition system on the computers monitor. Multimedia files about the scanned word can also be played through the computers monitor and speakers. For example if a child reading Goldilocks and the Three Bears scanned the word bear the system might pronounce the word bear and play a short video about bears on the computers monitor. In this way the child learns to pronounce the written word and is visually taught what the word means via the multimedia presentation.

The literacy acquisition system provides immediate auditory and or visual information to enhance the learning process. The child uses this supplementary information to quickly acquire a deeper understanding of the written material. The system can be used to teach beginning readers to read to help children acquire a larger vocabulary etc. This system provides the child with information about words with which the child is unfamiliar or about which the child wants more information.

In some embodiments the system compiles personal dictionaries. If the reader sees a word that is new interesting or particularly useful or troublesome the reader saves it along with its definition to a computer file. This computer file becomes the reader s personalized dictionary. This dictionary is generally smaller in size than a general dictionary so can be downloaded to a mobile station or associated device and thus be available even when the system isn t immediately accessible. In some embodiments the personal dictionary entries include audio files to assist with proper word pronunciation and information identifying the paper document from which the word was scanned.

In some embodiments the system creates customized spelling and vocabulary tests for students. For example as a student reads an assignment the student may scan unfamiliar words with the portable scanner. The system stores a list of all the words that the student has scanned. Later the system administers a customized spelling vocabulary test to the student on an associated monitor or prints such a test on an associated printer .

The arrangement of notes on a musical staff is similar to the arrangement of letters in a line of text. The same scanning device discussed for capturing text in this system can be used to capture music notation and an analogous process of constructing a search against databases of known musical pieces would allow the piece from which the capture occurred to be identified which can then be retrieved played or be the basis for some further action.

Teachers can use the system to detect plagiarism or to verify sources by scanning text from student papers and submitting the scanned text to the system. For example a teacher who wishes to verify that a quote in a student paper came from the source that the student cited can scan a portion of the quote and compare the title of the document identified by the system with the title of the document cited by the student. Likewise the system can use scans of text from assignments submitted as the student s original work to reveal if the text was instead copied.

In some embodiments capturing text from an academic textbook links students or staff to more detailed explanations further exercises student and staff discussions about the material related example past exam questions further reading on the subject recordings of the lectures on the subject and so forth. See also Section 7.1. 

In some embodiments the system is used to teach foreign languages. Scanning a Spanish word for example might cause the word to be read aloud in Spanish along with its definition in English.

The system provides immediate auditory and or visual information to enhance the new language acquisition process. The reader uses this supplementary information to acquire quickly a deeper understanding of the material. The system can be used to teach beginning students to read foreign languages to help students acquire a larger vocabulary etc. The system provides information about foreign words with which the reader is unfamiliar or for which the reader wants more information.

Reader interaction with a paper document such as a newspaper or book is monitored by a language skills system. The reader has a portable scanner that communicates with the language skills system. In some embodiments the language skills system includes a computer having a display and speakers and a database accessible by the computer. The scanner communicates with the computer hardwired short range RF etc. . When the reader sees an unknown word in an article the reader scans it with the scanner. The database includes a foreign language dictionary thesaurus and or multimedia files sound graphics etc. . In some embodiments the system compares the scanned text with the resources in its database to identify the scanned word. After the word has been identified the system uses the computer speakers to pronounce the word and its definition to the reader. In some embodiments the word and its definition are both displayed on the computer s monitor. Multimedia files about grammar tips related to the scanned word can also be played through the computer s monitor and speakers. For example if the words to speak are scanned the system might pronounce the word hablar play a short audio clip that demonstrates the proper Spanish pronunciation and display a complete list of the various conjugations of hablar. In this way the student learns to pronounce the written word is visually taught the spelling of the word via the multimedia presentation and learns how to conjugate the verb. The system can also present grammar tips about the proper usage of hablar along with common phrases.

In some embodiments the user scans a word or short phrase from a rendered document in a language other than the user s native language or some other language that the user knows reasonably well . In some embodiments the system maintains a prioritized list of the user s preferred languages. The system identifies the electronic counterpart of the rendered document and determines the location of the scan within the document. The system also identifies a second electronic counterpart of the document that has been translated into one of the user s preferred languages and determines the location in the translated document corresponding to the location of the scan in the original document. When the corresponding location is not known precisely the system identifies a small region e.g. a paragraph that includes the corresponding location of the scanned location. The corresponding translated location is then presented to the user. This provides the user with a precise translation of the particular usage at the scanned location including any slang or other idiomatic usage that is often difficult to accurately translate on a word by word basis.

A user researching a particular topic may encounter all sorts of material both in print and on screen which they might wish to record as relevant to the topic in some personal archive. The system would enable this process to be automatic as a result of scanning a short phrase in any piece of material and could also create a bibliography suitable for insertion into a publication on the subject.

Obviously commercial activities could be made out of almost any process discussed in this document but here we concentrate on a few obvious revenue streams.

Conventional Internet search engines typically provide free search of electronic documents and also make no charge to the content providers for including their content in the index. In some embodiments the system provides for charges to users and or payments to search engines and or content providers in connection with the operation and use of the system.

In some embodiments subscribers to the system s services pay a fee for searches originating from scans of paper documents. For example a stockbroker may be reading a Wall Street Journal article about a new product offered by Company X. By scanning the Company X name from the paper document and agreeing to pay the necessary fees the stockbroker uses the system to search special or proprietary databases to obtain premium information about the company such as analyst s reports. The system can also make arrangements to have priority indexing of the documents most likely to be read in paper form for example by making sure all of the newspapers published on a particular day are indexed and available by the time they hit the streets.

Content providers may pay a fee to be associated with certain terms in search queries submitted from paper documents. For example in one embodiment the system chooses a most preferred content provider based on additional context about the provider the context being in this case that the content provider has paid a fee to be moved up the results list . In essence the search provider is adjusting paper document search results based on pre existing financial arrangements with a content provider. See also the description of keywords and key phrases in Section 5.2.

Where access to particular content is to be restricted to certain groups of people such as clients or employees such content may be protected by a firewall and thus not generally indexable by third parties. The content provider may nonetheless wish to provide an index to the protected content. In such a case the content provider can pay a service provider to provide the content provider s index to system subscribers. For example a law firm may index all of a client s documents. The documents are stored behind the law firm s firewall. However the law firm wants its employees and the client to have access to the documents through the portable scanner so it provides the index or a pointer to the index to the service provider which in turn searches the law firm s index when employees or clients of the law firm submit paper scanned search terms via their portable scanners. The law firm can provide a list of employees and or clients to the service provider s system to enable this function or the system can verify access rights by querying the law firm prior to searching the law firm s index. Note that in the preceding example the index provided by the law firm is only of that client s documents not an index of all documents at the law firm. Thus the service provider can only grant the law firm s clients access to the documents that the law firm indexed for the client.

There are at least two separate revenue streams that can result from searches originating from paper documents one revenue stream from the search function and another from the content delivery function. The search function revenue can be generated from paid subscriptions from the scanner users but can also be generated on a per search charge. The content delivery revenue can be shared with the content provider or copyright holder the service provider can take a percentage of the sale or a fixed fee such as a micropayment for each delivery but also can be generated by a referral model in which the system gets a fee or percentage for every item that the subscriber orders from the online catalog and that the system has delivered or contributed to regardless of whether the service provider intermediates the transaction. In some embodiments the system service provider receives revenue for all purchases that the subscriber made from the content provider either for some predetermined period of time or at any subsequent time when a purchase of an identified product is made.

Consumers may use the portable scanner to make purchases from paper catalogs. The subscriber scans information from the catalog that identifies the catalog. This information is text from the catalog a bar code or another identifier of the catalog. The subscriber scans information identifying the products that s he wishes to purchase. The catalog mailing label may contain a customer identification number that identifies the customer to the catalog vendor. If so the subscriber can also scan this customer identification number. The system acts as an intermediary between the subscriber and the vendor to facilitate the catalog purchase by providing the customer s selection and customer identification number to the vendor.

A consumer scans paper coupons and saves an electronic copy of the coupon in the scanner or in a remote device such as a computer for later retrieval and use. An advantage of electronic storage is that the consumer is freed from the burden of carrying paper coupons. A further advantage is that the electronic coupons may be retrieved from any location. In some embodiments the system can track coupon expiration dates alert the consumer about coupons that will expire soon and or delete expired coupons from storage. An advantage for the issuer of the coupons is the possibility of receiving more feedback about who is using the coupons and when and where they are captured and used.

The system may be used to auto populate an electronic document that corresponds to a paper form. A user scans in some text or a barcode that uniquely identifies the paper form. The scanner communicates the identity of the form and information identifying the user to a nearby computer. The nearby computer has an Internet connection. The nearby computer can access a first database of forms and a second database having information about the user of the scanner such as a service provider s subscriber information database . The nearby computer accesses an electronic version of the paper form from the first database and auto populates the fields of the form from the user s information obtained from the second database. The nearby computer then emails the completed form to the intended recipient. Alternatively the computer could print the completed form on a nearby printer.

Rather than access an external database in some embodiments the system has a portable scanner that contains the user s information such as in an identity module SIM or security card. The scanner provides information identifying the form to the nearby PC. The nearby PC accesses the electronic form and queries the scanner for any necessary information to fill out the form.

The system can be used to automatically populate electronic address books or other contact lists from paper documents. For example upon receiving a new acquaintance s business card a user can capture an image of the card with his her cellular phone. The system will locate an electronic copy of the card which can be used to update the cellular phone s onboard address book with the new acquaintance s contact information. The electronic copy may contain more information about the new acquaintance than can be squeezed onto a business card. Further the onboard address book may also store a link to the electronic copy such that any changes to the electronic copy will be automatically updated in the cell phone s address book. In this example the business card optionally includes a symbol or text that indicates the existence of an electronic copy. If no electronic copy exists the cellular phone can use OCR and knowledge of standard business card formats to fill out an entry in the address book for the new acquaintance. Symbols may also aid in the process of extracting information directly from the image. For example a phone icon next to the phone number on the business card can be recognized to determine the location of the phone number.

The system can enhance the proofreading and editing process. One way the system can enhance the editing process is by linking the editor s interactions with a paper document to its electronic counterpart. As an editor reads a paper document and scans various parts of the document the system will make the appropriate annotations or edits to an electronic counterpart of the paper document. For example if the editor scans a portion of text and makes the new paragraph control gesture with the scanner a computer in communication with the scanner would insert a new paragraph break at the location of the scanned text in the electronic copy of the document.

A user can make voice annotations to a document by scanning a portion of text from the document and then making a voice recording that is associated with the scanned text. In some embodiments the scanner has a microphone to record the user s verbal annotations. After the verbal annotations are recorded the system identifies the document from which the text was scanned locates the scanned text within the document and attaches the voice annotation at that point. In some embodiments the system converts the speech to text and attaches the annotation as a textual comment.

In some embodiments the system keeps annotations separate from the document with only a reference to the annotation kept with the document. The annotations then become an annotation markup layer to the document for a specific subscriber or group of users.

In some embodiments for each capture and associated annotation the system identifies the document opens it using a software package scrolls to the location of the scan and plays the voice annotation. The user can then interact with a document while referring to voice annotations suggested changes or other comments recorded either by themselves or by somebody else.

The described system can be used to enhance paper documents with electronic help menus. In some embodiments a markup layer associated with a paper document contains help menu information for the document. For example when a user scans text from a certain portion of the document the system checks the markup associated with the document and presents a help menu to the user. The help menu is presented on a display on the scanner or on an associated nearby display.

In some situations it is advantageous to be able to scan information from a television computer monitor or other similar display. In some embodiments the portable scanner is used to scan information from computer monitors and televisions. In some embodiments the portable optical scanner has an illumination sensor that is optimized to work with traditional cathode ray tube CRT display techniques such as rasterizing screen blanking etc.

A voice capture device which operates by capturing audio of the user reading text from a document will typically work regardless of whether that document is on paper on a display or on some other medium.

One use of the direct scanning of displays is the association of devices as described in Section 15.6. For example in some embodiments a public kiosk displays a dynamic session ID on its monitor. The kiosk is connected to a communication network such as the Internet or a corporate intranet. The session ID changes periodically but at least every time that the kiosk is used so that a new session ID is displayed to every user. To use the kiosk the subscriber scans in the session ID displayed on the kiosk by scanning the session ID the user tells the system that he wishes to temporarily associate the kiosk with his scanner for the delivery of content resulting from scans of printed documents or from the kiosk screen itself. The scanner may communicate the Session ID and other information authenticating the scanner such as a serial number account number or other identifying information directly to the system. For example the scanner can communicate directly where directly means without passing the message through the kiosk with the system by sending the session initiation message through the user s cell phone which is paired with the users scanner via Bluetooth . Alternatively the scanner can establish a wireless link with the kiosk and use the kiosk s communication link by transferring the session initiation information to the kiosk perhaps via short range RF such as Bluetooth etc. in response the kiosk sends the session initiation information to the system via its Internet connection.

The system can prevent others from using a device that is already associated with a scanner during the period or session in which the device is associated with the scanner. This feature is useful to prevent others from using a public kiosk before another person s session has ended. As an example of this concept related to use of a computer at an Internet caf the user scans a barcode on a monitor of a PC which s he desires to use in response the system sends a session ID to the monitor that it displays the user initiates the session by scanning the session ID from the monitor or entering it via a keypad or touch screen or microphone on the portable scanner and the system associates in its databases the session ID with the serial number or other identifier that uniquely identifies the user s scanner of his her scanner so another scanner cannot scan the session ID and use the monitor during his her session. The scanner is in communication through wireless link such as Bluetooth a hardwired link such as a docking station etc. with a PC associated with the monitor or is in direct i.e. w o going through the PC communication with the system via another means such as a cellular phone etc.

In one embodiment a scanner may capture a representation of a rendered document with an image sensor behind an aperture. In another embodiment this aperture may have a transparent cover such that a sensor is protected. This covering could be plastic glass or fiberglass. In another embodiment this covering may be able to focus light. One example of this would be a focusing lens such that the distance from the aperture to a piece of paper may be different than the distance from the aperture to the image sensor. This relation can be formed with 1 f 1 u 1 v f is the focal length of the lens u is from the aperture to a document and v is from a sensor to the aperture . One embodiment of this is illustrated in . Other embodiments might use more than one focusing lens or a lens not located in this aperture. In some embodiments reflective surfaces such as a mirror may be used.

In some embodiments a scanner may include an image sensor. One example of an image sensor would be with a CMOS computer chip transistor technology image sensor. Such a sensor may be able to photograph a backlit display such as a computer monitor. Another example would be a Charge Coupled Device CCD . Both of these are ways for a computer chip to measure light as electrical signals across a grid of sensors. Another example would be a linear array of light sensitive photo transistors.

In some embodiments a button may be used to start the scanning process. Such a button could be placed so it is easily activated by a user. In one embodiment a button may protrude from this scanner such that it is depressed when this scanner is likely above content. is a schematic diagram showing switches incorporated in the scanner in some embodiments shown in the scanner may have a user button and a proximity button . In this diagram both are bolded and shaded for visibility. In one embodiment a proximity button s sensor may be inside the scanner so that the protruding element may be moved into contact with a sensor as the scanner is moved into contact with a document . In other embodiments a sensor may be employed to detect proximity to a scanning target. Once triggered a camera may take different length series of images at different frequencies. In one embodiment a scanner may only take a single image. In another embodiment images may be captured many times a second as long as a sensor is activated much like a video camera . Optionally a scanner may have a light to assist in capturing images.

In this disclosure and some figures an embodiment of these storage capabilities may be referred to as memory for clarity but this terminology is not to be taken as binding. In some embodiments it may be Static Dynamic a multiple Data Rate e.g. Double or Quad Random Access Memory SRAM DRAM DDR DRAM QDR DRAM respectively a Read Only Memory Flash Memory Secure Digital Input Output SDIO CompactFlash a hard disk drive Magnetic Memory e.g. TMJ RAM FRAM Compact Disc Digital Video Disc tape storage USB key or other computer readable or processor accessible storage. In some embodiments there may be multiple types of storage in a scanner. For example a scanner may have a small hard disk drive for scan results and SRAM for a high speed cache. In some embodiments storage may not be contained within a scanner. For example a scanner may use a serial connection to a computer to store and retrieve data.

This storage may be used to record images captured from image sensors. Storage not necessarily the same device may also be used in converting these images to formats such as text. Such a process may require multiple steps and these intermediate results go into and out of memory. Storage may also be used for recording results of interactions such as the text of a scan a combination of an annotation and text or images that a user designates. In one embodiment an image sensor may automatically place new images into memory. In some embodiments only some information captured may be of value and the rest may be deleted or compressed. One example would be deleting images once the scanned text has been determined. Another approach would be storing images that may not contain all of the information captured. Examples include compression formats such as GIF or JPG. Another approach would be not storing all of the color information. For example an image sensor may be able to capture 24 bits of color information i.e. distinguish more than 16 million different colors . It may be that this exemplary scanner only needs to be able to distinguish between white probably white probably black and black 2 bits . This reduction from 24 to 2 bits may save almost 92 of this space.

In some embodiments a scanner may have a power source. This may be used to provide electricity to components of a scanner. Some sources may store energy. One example is a battery that uses a chemical reaction to free electrons. These electrons then flow through connections to points with a lower electric potential. A gravitational analogue may be water at the top of a hill which may flow downhill towards points with less gravitational potential. Another approach may be to have a power source that is not wholly or primarily contained in this scanner. An example would be plugging this scanner into a wall outlet. Another example would be plugging this scanner into a USB outlet such that the host device provides power to the scanner via this power source. In one embodiment a fuel cell may be used to generate electricity. In one embodiment a fuel cell consists of an anode cathode membrane and a catalyst. The cathode may have paths etched in it filled with oxygen so that oxygen is distributed over this surface of the cathode. The anode has pathways with hydrogen The catalyst begins a reaction between the hydrogen and oxygen. The membrane ensures that electrons are not able to go directly across i.e. between the anode and cathode and therefore must go through a circuit and provide an electric current to the scanner. A power source may incorporate other parts to be able to provide power. Some scanner components may be designed to receive Alternating Current AC whereas a power source component such as a battery may produce Direct Current DC . An electrical device known as an inverter may be employed to accomplish this. In some embodiments a power source may be intended to deliver different voltages to different components. One way of doing this might be to use resistors or other current limiters forming a voltage divider. Another way of doing this might be use separate inverters such that each different voltage is produced by a different inverter. A power source may also use fuses or other surge protection circuitry.

In some embodiments a scanner may be able to output information. This may allow a scanner to store scan results elsewhere communicate to a user or signify that something is wrong. This output may be a display such as an LED or LCD. These types of displays may be found in calculators digital clocks cellular phones and other portable electronics. Some output maybe to another device such as a wired wireless or other communications medium. In such an embodiment a user may need to use a monitor associated with this other device to view information. Examples of wired connections include RS 232 PS 2 serial USB ethernet token ring printer connections IEEE 1284 firewire RJ45 telephone line homeplug and fiber optics. Examples of wireless connections include wireless ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g bluetooth infra red IrDA such as in a television remote control Ultra wideband frequency or amplitude modulated signaling such as in FM AM radio analog broadcasts such as television PCS GSM GPRS OFDM CDMA TDMA FDMA ZigBee wireless 1394 BLAST from Bell Labs homeRF and TD SCDMA a Chinese standard . Examples of other communications mediums include removable media e.g. CD ROMs DVDs floppy diskettes SDIO memory stick compact flash usb keys PCI PCI X PCI Express IDE and SCSI. Other types of output may be auditory e.g. a piezoelectric speaker haptic including a cell phone s vibrate or other sensory output.

In some embodiments the scanner uses output to communicate with a user. For example a user may be notified that a battery is running low on power. In this embodiment a chemical battery is periodically checked with a voltmeter. Once this reading drops below a threshold the power source may notify a central processor by an interrupt. This processor may then save its current state and switch to handling this interrupt. This interrupt may begin a routine or series of instructions from memory to command the processor to signal a particular display e.g. a low battery light . This processor may then use a system bus to send data to this display. This display may then interpret this data as a command to turn on.

In various embodiments output may be used to signal that a user ought to rescan that a connection e.g. bluetooth has been detected and is now connected that this scanner is turned on which gesture has been detected or which mode this scanner is in previous scan results e.g. text or possibly a document name possibly based on metadata how much memory is left or information such as time of last scan. Some embodiments may not be designed to output some of these. For example in one embodiment a scanner may simply vibrate if a scan needs to be rescanned. If a user would like to view previous scans they may have to use a USB connection to upload the scans in memory to a device that can display this data such as a personal computer.

In some embodiments a scanner processor loads from memory a series of instructions to operate an output device. These instructions may command this processor to engage an output device by communicating over a system bus or other connection. This processor may then send data to this output device. This output device if a connection may then format the data and send it out. If this output device is a display this data may be interpreted and then rendered. For example if an LED display is used this display may in one embodiment receive data from the processor. This data may then be used to address into a lookup table i.e. Read Only Memory . This lookup table may then produce electrical signals to control which LEDs on this display are on and which are off. If the data sent is the ASCII code for a lower case s this lookup table may return results from the address range designed to be this letter. These signals may then create a pattern recognizable as a lower case s on the display.

In some embodiments the output may include at least one LED to notify a user that they may stop scanning. is a schematic diagram showing a visual output component incorporated into the scanner in some embodiments in a first state. shows an early stage of a scan. The box is used to illustrate which text has been scanned such a mark may not appear to a user. There is a scanner being used on a document . This embodiment of a scanner has a LED that is not emitting light. is a schematic diagram showing a visual output component incorporated into the scanner in some embodiments in a second state. Later in this LED has been activated. In this diagram more text has been scanned as represented by the larger box .

If this scan is not yet unique this process returns to where more scan data is collected. If this scan is unique this iteration continues to where the scan may be processed. This is not to say that all scan processing occurs at this stage. Some processing that may occur at this stage may include turning on an LED to notify the user that this scan has been determined to be unique. Some data after this point may not be stored or an image sensor may collect less data e.g. recording images at a lower resolution or frequency . In some embodiments some data may be collected such that this scanner can record where this scan ended. In some embodiments a scanner may stop recording once a scan is unique. In some embodiments scan processing may initiate a process or segment of determining which characters have been imaged.

Processing capabilities in this scanner may be used for triggering a sensor processing sensor output particularly images compression and other image manipulation caching algorithms and other functions associated with memory communications interfacing with other modules or functions related to security.

A processor coordinates the overall operation of the scanner. Usually a processor operates from a program that is stored in memory. Of particular relevance to some embodiments of this invention memory may store program instructions about storage and processing of data acquired by an optical sensor. In one embodiment this processor may trigger an optical sensor. This processor may then move the collected data to memory. In another embodiment a direct memory access chip may be able to control or direct movement of data from an optical sensor to memory. A processor may then retrieve from memory instructions for storing and processing this data. In some embodiments a processor may treat incoming signals as either data signals or control signals. A data signal may contain a number or an address in memory. A control signal may contain information such as an operation to perform. In some embodiments these control signals may be stored in a list much like a recipe for cooking. Like a recipe for cooking these data signals form ingredients control signals act as steps this internal memory or cache may act as a cutting board or other easily accessible place to keep ingredients and units for performing math may be equivalent to a food processor. For example a processor may retrieve the first instruction containing a control signal and two data signals. This control signal may instruct the processor to read in data from memory at the addresses contained in the first two data signals. In one embodiment this information may be stored in a memory built into this processor. The next control signal may instruct this processor to add these two numbers together. This processor may perform this addition and then return a result to its cache. A final control signal may direct this processor to store this result in memory. In this fashion a processor may be able to use control and data signals to perform operations.

In one embodiment a processor may retrieve an image captured by an optical sensor and perform traditional Optical Character Recognition OCR techniques to determine which characters if any appear in this image.

In one embodiment this processor may be able to create or interact with data and data about data known as metadata. An example of metadata would be storing the time at which a picture was taken. To illustrate a processor may trigger a camera. This processor may then store this picture to memory. This processor may also query a system clock to determine what the current time is. This processor may then store the current time in a memory location following the last location devoted to this picture. In some cases in this embodiment an error code may be stored instead of a time stamp perhaps if something went wrong. Later software in memory may instruct this processor to perform some computations on this picture. This software may also be written with the knowledge that the location following the end of the picture contains a time stamp. This software may then be able to work with not only a picture but also the time that the picture was taken. In one embodiment this may be implemented in a computer language such as C or C using a data structure implemented with the keyword struct. For instance this processor could be instructed to delete all pictures taken on a Monday. In one embodiment this time stamp may record day of the week. If Monday is represented by a 1 in this field a processor may be able to retrieve the data in this field for each picture. If a picture is found to have a one in this field then this processor may instruct the memory to erase or allow to be written over the memory contained in addresses currently storing the picture in question. In one embodiment metadata may be stored indirectly. For example instead of storing a time stamp for each scan scans may be placed in memory in chronological order. Another example may be placing items in a memory location wherein this address corresponds to certain information.

In one embodiment a processor may compress a scanned image before determining what text is contained. Some other scanners may determine what text is contained possibly with OCR and then compress the results. Some other scanners may simply compress an image possibly with an algorithm such as JPEG but not determine what text is in this image. Other embodiments of a scanner may decompress an image before determining which text is contained. For example there may be a picture of a string of text in memory. A processor may segment this image character by character. To do this a processor may first determine which parts of an image constitute a character. This may involve finding a perimeter of black dots in a white field. A processor may then compare these segments to each other in order to compress this image. In some embodiments a goal of this compression may be to list where characters are repeated without information as to which character is in an image. For instance a result may indicate that the first character scanned is unique to this image the second character is repeated in the sixth and eighth position and so on. But this result would not have information as to what this first or second character may be. In one embodiment this processor may store each segment of an image containing a character as a separate image. This processor may then retrieve the first and second images and compare them to see if they are the same character. One way of doing this may be to subtract the images from each other. Each pixel s color may be represented by a number in ascending order of darkness. By subtracting a new image maybe formed indicating areas which do not have overlap between these two images particularly if a scanner classifies each pixel as white or black . If this resulting image does not have any regions with too much width it may be determined that the two characters match. In another embodiment each character may be segmented based on the vectors that form it. These vectors may then be stored as data. Then instead of comparing images a processor may simply compare vectors. Again this may be done by subtracting. To illustrate vectors may be thought of as line segments of different but fixed lengths. Each vector points in a particular direction. Subtraction occurs when two vectors are placed at the same starting location. A third vector is formed from the endpoint of the first vector to the endpoint of the second vector. This means that the angle formed by the first two vectors is completed as a triangle. If these resulting vectors are short enough it may be determined that these two characters match. Continuing with this comparison this processor may write to memory whether or not this second character matches the first character. This processor may then compare this first image to a third character and repeat this process. This processor may compare each new character to each unique character. This processor may then end up with a list of numerals such as 1232456783692 representing the word determinative . The first character has been assigned 1 the second character 2 and so forth. Where a character has been seen before such as the second e it is assigned the number of the first e i.e. 2. Instead of an image of the word determinative this processor may store only 13 characters. These character strings may be decompressed. In one embodiment only the text will be recovered not relative offsets of where these characters appeared on the page. Because not all of the information gathered may be stored the stored information may be smaller than the original image. One way to decompress this image would be to treat this string of numbers as an address into a list of word combinations. If a long enough string is used only one result may be found. In some embodiments different length text strings may be stored such that these offsets may be converted. In some embodiments metadata may be used to return results that are more likely than others. In some embodiments these text strings may be words in a given language. In some embodiments a processor may use instructions from memory to iterate through different possible text strings that may result in this combination of offsets.

In one embodiment a scanner may be able to have another device plugged into it such as a GPS module. This device may also be susceptible to a handheld form factor. This device may have a self contained power supply. This device may use power from this scanner s power source. This device may have separate processing capabilities.

This device may be connected and disconnected by hand and without tools. A device may provide further functionality to a scanner. For example a device may store financial information such that this scanner is able to interact with a credit card processor. In one embodiment a central processor for a scanner may detect that a button has been pushed to authorize a financial transaction. This processor may then check its memory to determine the starting address in memory for the control signals to carry out this process. The first instruction may direct this processor to notify the device with credit card information. In one embodiment there may be a direct connection between this scanner processor and this device. In such an embodiment this processor may simply send an instruction to this device over this direct connection. In another embodiment there may be a central bus connection. In such a situation a command from the processor may be received by every part of the scanner e.g. the memory the image sensor the power unit and the device. In such an embodiment a command from this processor may specify that it is for the device. One way to do this would be to use the first bits of a command. Each combination of bit settings e.g. 101 110 001 may be assigned to a different part of this scanner. The device with credit card information may receive this command. It may determine that the processor is attempting to complete a financial transaction. This device may respond to the processor instructing it to connect to some type of financial clearinghouse. This may be by providing a telephone number a Uniform Resource Locator an Internet Protocol address or by referring the processor to software already in memory. This processor may then establish a connection with the clearinghouse. This may happen with a wireless internet connection. In such an embodiment a processor may first issue a command to energize an antenna in a wireless radio or antennae for example in multiple in multiple out antenna schemes . This wireless radio may then attempt to detect a wireless network. If such a connection is detected this radio may notify the processor that a network has been detected and that the radio is ready to transceive. The processor may then begin to send out data. To do so it may conform the data to the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol. In such a scenario data may be sent in packets of varying length. Each packet will have a header that specifies among other things a destination address. Once a connection to this financial clearinghouse has been created the processor may load into its cache instructions for how to complete the requested financial transaction. Some of these instructions may require the processor to receive information from the device. The processor may request such data and then send it to the clearinghouse over the wireless internet connection established by the radio. In another scenario the connection to the clearinghouse may be created with a device not a part of the scanner. For example the scanner may have a bluetooth radio. Such a radio may not be able to send information to the clearinghouse by itself but may be able to connect to a cellular phone. This cellular phone may be able to establish an internet connection or simply place a phone call to this clearinghouse. In another scenario the scanner may be connected via wire to a personal computer. This personal computer may be able to establish a connection with this clearinghouse possibly over a modem or ethernet card.

In some embodiments a scanner may be able to detect gestures. A gesture is a scanning motion or series of motions where these motions serve as commands or other data beyond which images to capture. One example might be if a user circles text. Images within this circle may have metadata associated specifying that these images were in a circle. When reviewing results circled images may be denoted as important. Another example would be if a user scans backwards over something previously scanned. This may instruct a scanner to erase this previous scan. Gestures may be composed of smaller gestures. For example repeatedly scanning back and forth over content may be interpreted as a single rubbing motion possibly denoting importance rather than a series of discrete gestures.

In one embodiment a scanner may detect the start of a gesture followed by identifying this gesture followed by detecting the end of this gesture. This scanner may then associate a target of this gesture with metadata or take another action.

In one embodiment a gesture may be started whenever motion is detected and this scanner is not already in an elemental gesture. One way to detect motion is to compare sequentially captured images much like an optical mouse. In one embodiment a first image may be analyzed for patterns. A processor will use software instructions to bring this image into memory and then find parts of this image that differ from a background. This processor may then record to memory where these patterns were located and what they were. This processor may then load a second image and attempt to detect these original patterns. This processor may then compare how the locations of these patterns may have changed from the first image. The difference may be encoded as vectors. By repeating this process a series of vectors may be formed. Similar to connect the dots these line segments or vectors may trace out a motion sequence. In another embodiment a processor may directly compare the first and second image similar to technology employed in optical mice. This processor may in one embodiment find vectors between pixels or some representative pixels in the first and second image. This processor may then move all of the pixels in the first image one pixel to the right with some pixels no longer being part of this image . This processor may then recalculate these vectors. If these vectors are shorter this processor may continue moving pixels to the right until there is no horizontal distance between pixels. If these vectors are longer this processor may begin moving pixels to the left. This process may be repeated along a vertical or other axis.

In one embodiment the start of a gesture may be followed by an effort to classify this motion. The complexity of this step may depend on which classifications exist. For example if a scanner only recognizes one gesture e.g. backwards classification efforts may not need to consider any vertical components of motion. In some embodiments motion may be represented as a vector or a series of vectors. In some embodiments vectors may be replaced by a single representative vector as described herein. For instance if a user is attempting to scan perfectly horizontally but instead oscillates vertically a little a scanner may be able to determine that this user intended a horizontal line and replace the myriad vectors with one horizontal one. Continuing with this embodiment say this scanner recognizes forward backward up down circling and diagonal. It may be that each of these vector s horizontal components have matching polarities e.g. backwards but the vertical components may have different polarities i.e. up and down . Further it may be that no vector varies from the horizontal axis by more than 15 degrees out of 360 . This processor may load the appropriate images into its cache to be analyzed. This processor may then use instructions from memory to determine the series of motion vectors followed. This processor may then store these vectors in memory. This processor may then retrieve further software instructions to process these vectors. This processor may then compare these horizontal and vertical components with zero to determine their polarities. This processor may divide the absolute value of a vertical component by the absolute value of the horizontal component. This may then be compared with the arctangent of 15 degrees approximately 0.27 to determine if this vector is within 15 degrees. This processor may then remove from memory the short vectors and simply replace them with one vector whose horizontal component spans the entire length and whose vertical component is zero.

In one embodiment a scanner may be able to combine gestures into other gestures. For example a scanner may recognize forward backward and rubbing back and forth . The motions used to make a rubbing motion may be individually detected as gestures. is a flow diagram showing steps typically performed by the system in order to recognize combination gestures that are performed by performing a series of constituent gestures. The forward motion is detected an in it is identified as forward as discussed elsewhere. In it is added to a gesture group. For simplicity this embodiment has only one gesture group though other embodiments may have more and this group is classified sequentially though other embodiments may group gestures based on other properties . In the next step it may be determined that this single forward motion is not a combination gesture so this iteration proceeds to . From here another gesture may be found . In one embodiment a processor may retrieve a variable from memory to determine if how many if any gestures are in a queue. A processor may also retrieve memory from a linked list by visiting a known address. Because there is a new gesture this process returns to . This next gesture will be identified as a single backwards motion. In this is added to the one group in memory. Following this at this processor may try to determine if a combination gesture exists. In this example the only combination gestures are forward backwards forwards and backwards forward backwards. In one embodiment a tree may be stored in memory outlining these combination gestures. A processor could access a root node at a predetermined location and retrieve a data structure listing elemental gestures. Each gesture would point to an address or addresses of possible next gestures. This branching structure is known as a tree. The processor from this example may trace forward backwards and not arrive at a terminal symbol. Thus this process continues to and then onto . There the next gesture is identified as a forward gesture and then added to the one group. This time will identify this sequence as rubbing and then replace the three separate gestures with one rubbing gesture. Optionally a combination gesture may not be a fixed pattern. For example rubbing may be defined as at least one repetition of forwards backwards or backwards forwards. Optionally combination gestures may form components of other combination gestures. In one embodiment a scanner may recognize circling rubbing and rubbing then circling.

In one embodiment a scanner may need to associate a relative direction in an image with a direction relative to a document. For instance a scanner may want to classify scans to the left as backwards. In one embodiment a scanner may use two image sensors to be able to determine a direction relative to a document by assuming that a document is right side up and then using an absolute direction. In one embodiment an absolute direction may be determined by using two image sensors placed next to each other. Such a scanner may be able to determine a direction relative to an image from each and an absolute direction by comparing these two and possibly by having stored how images move between these sensors based on scanner orientation . Another approach may be to have something e.g. a stick dot of light proximity sensor obscure a small part of an image sensor such that an absolute direction may be determined. Another approach to finding a direction relative to a document may be by scanning an image such as a 2 D barcode edge of a document or known character where this scanner has stored which part of this image is up or down left right or other direction . In some embodiments this information may be manually input by a user. One way of determining which direction is backwards may be to total the horizontal components of all scans by this scanner and then deem the larger of left to right or right to left as forward and the other as backwards. This may also be done over a window of scans. Instead of totaling horizontal components for all scans a scanner may simply total the last 5 or 10 scans. This may allow a processor to perform fewer computations or allow a scanner to more accurately predict if a user has switched languages and such a language is written in a different direction . Some content may use serifs which are small lines extending from the ends of some characters. In one embodiment a scanner may detect vectors in this size range and compare the direction of these to determine which direction is forward. Another approach may be to have some embodiments with a fixed direction forward. If a user only reads languages that move in one direction it may be more efficient if they have a scanner that does not compute and therefore does not mistake which direction is being scanned. Some users may want an embodiment in which a switch is used to set a direction as forward.

Another aspect of classifying motion may be detecting if an area has previously been scanned. This may be useful in detecting a circular motion i.e. where this circle is completed or in starting a new gesture e.g. in a series of back and forth strokes . One way to detect a previously scanned image is by matching patterns of pixels. In one embodiment pixels may be grouped into patterns like a constellation or forming a larger shape e.g. pixels in the shape of the letter d . It may be that a processor finds a pattern representative of each corner of an image and then sorts these images possibly by number of pixels. Later images may have patterns detected and matched as described elsewhere with earlier patterns in memory. Another approach may be for a processor to add motion vectors together to determine if a vector ever crosses another vector particularly the starting point of the first vector. These techniques may be combined where vectors are used to determine if there might be a crossing and then image analysis is used to determine if such a crossing did in fact occur.

If this new direction is not reverse including in some embodiments ending a scan then this process returns to its initial state to await a new gesture. If this new direction is reverse then this iteration proceeds to to detect another direction change. This step may be performed in a manner similar to the other step labeled Detect direction change . From there this iteration may proceed to where it may be determined that this new direction is the reverse of the second. In some embodiments this third direction may not be parallel to the first direction. For example if a direction within fifteen degrees of is considered reverse these first and third directions may differ by 30 degrees. In some embodiments this step may be implemented in a fashion similar to the other step labeled Is this direction reverse .

If this new direction is the reverse of the second this process continues to where the gesture is treated as rubbing. In one embodiment this may comprise including metadata with other data from this scan. If a direction is determined to not be the reverse of a previous direction this process returns to .

In different embodiments different gestures may be associated with different results. In one embodiment a forward scan may be trigger a scanner to store this scan. If this scan or a section of it is later scanned with a backwards gesture this embodiment may remove this second scan target from memory. is a schematic diagram showing a first point in an example of the performance of the backward slash scanning gesture. In a scanner is above a page of text . When this scanner is moved to the right text is captured from the page. is a schematic diagram showing a second point in an example of the performance of the backward slash scanning gesture. shows a box of text that may have been captured from a document . This box is shown for illustrative purposes such a box may not be visible to a user. is a schematic diagram showing a third point in an example of the performance of the backward slash scanning gesture. shows a scanner moving in the opposite direction across this document . The first box is still shown and now a second box is shown. This second box shows the text that may have been selected as the scanner makes its second motion. This second box is also shown for illustrative purposes and is unlikely to be displayed to a user. Further this box s height is larger than the first box s to clarify the overlap not to signify that a second motion collects more image data than the first. In some embodiments text enclosed in both the first and second scan regions may be deleted from memory. In some embodiments if most of a scan has been rescanned as backwards the entire scan may be deleted. In some embodiments this data may simply be flagged that it can be overwritten but not necessarily erased.

In some embodiments a rubbing or back and forth gesture is interpreted as highlighting. For example a user may make a series of scans with a forward gesture and designate one scan target with a rubbing gesture. In one embodiment a user who retrieves these scans may see this document with the rubbed scan highlighted e.g. this text is on a brightly colored field and the other text unmarked. In another embodiment text that was denoted with a forwards gesture may be underlined.

In some embodiments a variety of gestures may be matched with any of a number of results. In addition to those described herein gestures may include combinations of horizontal vertical or diagonal motions. Some motions may be curved. As disclosed herein some motions may be described in terms of their component vectors. By analyzing these component vectors some embodiments may be able to differentiate between straight and curved lines or detect squiggles. Some embodiments may recognize X shaped gestures i.e. a pair of diagonal lines crossing within 15 degrees of orthogonality . One embodiment may determine that a T gesture selects an entire paragraph as a scan. In some embodiments a straight or slightly curved vertical line in a margin i.e. a document region primarily devoid of characters or images may serve to designate an entire paragraph. In some embodiments a gesture may associate metadata with more than one scan. For example a user may gesture an X followed by a numeral e.g. 4 . In one embodiment this 4 may be recognized as a gesture. The X gesture may be interpreted to mean that previous scans ought to be deleted and the 4 may instruct this scanner to delete the previous four gestures. In one embodiment a rubbing gesture may be taken to set a rubbing mode i.e. all scans are treated as rubbing until an end gesture is entered possibly a new rubbing gesture possibly a circle with a diagonal line similar to a forward slash that intersects the circle in two places . In some embodiments a user may be able to use a button or other input in combination with a gesture to alter that gesture s result. For example scanning backwards may mean that this scanned data ought to be erased but touching a button and then scanning may mean that a user would like to add this text to a scanner s dictionary of known words. In such an embodiment a scanner may use template matching or other OCR techniques to determine which characters these are. In this embodiment a processor may then direct memory to store this string of determined characters as a word in a table of recognized character strings.

In some embodiments gestures may be able to set modes. For example in one embodiment there may be a gesture that performs a function similar to numlock i.e. when this flag is set certain inputs are interpreted differently . In one embodiment a user may gesture a which may be interpreted to mean that all scans and gestures apply to entire paragraphs e.g. circling 3 words is interpreted as circling the entire paragraph containing those three words until another is made.

Some possible results include pasting or cutting from a source document in addition to copying from either source or rendered. In one embodiment a user may scan backwards to delete it from one of their copies of a source document. In one embodiment a user may be able to copy from a paper document and paste into an electronic document. In one embodiment a user may use their scanner to interface with a computer monitor in order to interact with an electronic document. In one embodiment a user may gesture a caret scan on a computer monitor to paste text. In one embodiment a scanner may determine that this shape is a caret and then communicate with this computer through a scanner output e.g. a wireless keyboard protocol bluetooth a PS 2 connection to instruct the computer to insert text. This scanner may then provide the text of this user s last forward scan or an image such that the computer may perform OCR . A word processing program on this computer may then insert this text where the caret gesture designated. In one embodiment a scanner may be used to interact with a computer in a fashion similar to a digital pen. Such a scanner may have a variety of gestures to issue commands matching those of peripherals such as a mouse or joystick. In one embodiment a scanner may function as a joystick by being held vertically pointing down. When a user moves this joystick in a given direction either by tilting or moving these movements may by interpreted by this scanner as a series of images. For example if a scanner is tilted forwards an image sensor may record a series of images going the opposite direction each with more skew. By mapping how parts of these images move or skew a scanner may be able to determine how it is being moved. These motions may then be communicated to a computer. In one embodiment a scanner may be used by pointing at a screen at a range close enough such that an image sensor may take images of screen that are detailed enough to distinguish a screen location. In one embodiment a cursor may become smaller as a scanner comes closer and therefore this scanner can more accurately predict where over a screen it is . In one embodiment a scanner may determine its position by querying a computer s display buffer to find a matching image. In one embodiment a scanner may take a series of images as it approaches a screen. This series of images may be used to iteratively zoom in. Each picture may be compared to an earlier image e.g. the previous image and the overlapping region determined. As this scanner moves closer these overlapping regions may become smaller unless this image sensor is a laser in which case the image detected may not change size . In some embodiments a scanner may be able to issue mouse or joystick style commands e.g. click left click mouse chords . In some embodiments the scanner has a button switch or other manual input. In some embodiments the scanner recognizes gestures to issue these commands. For example an upwards forward slash gesture of less than 2 cm may be interpreted as a click. In some embodiments the scanner embodiment uses a dot gesture as a left click. A dot may be a scan of less than 2 seconds that stays in a 1 cm radius e.g. moving a scanner to touch a screen and then retracting it . With one embodiment a user may be able to select text in a word processing program and then use a dot gesture on a software button in this program to bold the selected text. In one embodiment a scanner may be used to scroll through a document on a computer monitor.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that specific embodiments of the invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration but that various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims.

