---

title: Oxo-heterocyclically substituted alkyl carboxylic acids and use thereof
abstract: The present application relates to novel alkylcarboxylic acids having an oxo-substituted azaheterocyclic partial structure, to processes for their preparation, to their use for the treatment and/or prevention of diseases, and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and/or prevention of diseases, especially for the treatment and/or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08642592&OS=08642592&RS=08642592
owner: Bayer Intellectual Property GmbH
number: 08642592
owner_city: Monheim
owner_country: DE
publication_date: 20100224
---
The present application relates to novel alkylcarboxylic acids having an oxo substituted azaheterocyclic partial structure to processes for their preparation to their use for the treatment and or prevention of diseases and to their use for producing medicaments for the treatment and or prevention of diseases especially for the treatment and or prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

One of the most important cellular transmission systems in mammalian cells is cyclic guanosine monophosphate cGMP . Together with nitric oxide NO which is released from the endothelium and transmits hormonal and mechanical signals it forms the NO cGMP system. Guanylate cyclases catalyze the biosynthesis of cGMP from guanosine triphosphate GTP . The representatives of this family disclosed to date can be divided both according to structural features and according to the type of ligands into two groups the particulate guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by natriuretic peptides and the soluble guanylate cyclases which can be stimulated by NO. The soluble guanylate cyclases consist of two subunits and very probably contain one heme per heterodimer which is part of the regulatory site. The latter is of central importance for the mechanism of activation. NO is able to bind to the iron atom of heme and thus markedly increase the activity of the enzyme. Heme free preparations cannot by contrast be stimulated by NO. Carbon monoxide CO is also able to attach to the central iron atom of heme but the stimulation by CO is distinctly less than that by NO.

Through the production of cGMP and the regulation resulting therefrom of phosphodiesterases ion channels and protein kinases guanylate cyclase plays a crucial part in various physiological processes in particular in the relaxation and proliferation of smooth muscle cells in platelet aggregation and adhesion and in neuronal signal transmission and in disorders caused by an impairment of the aforementioned processes. Under pathophysiological conditions the NO cGMP system may be suppressed which may lead for example to high blood pressure platelet activation increased cellular proliferation endothelial dysfunction atherosclerosis angina pectoris heart failure thromboses stroke and myocardial infarction.

A possible way of treating such disorders which is independent of NO and aims at influencing the cGMP signaling pathway in organisms is a promising approach because of the high efficiency and few side effects which are to be expected.

Compounds such as organic nitrates whose effect is based on NO have to date been exclusively used for the therapeutic stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase. NO is produced by bioconversion and activates soluble guanylate cyclase by attaching to the central iron atom of heme. Besides the side effects the development of tolerance is one of the crucial disadvantages of this mode of treatment O. V. Evgenov et al. 5 2006 755 . Substances which directly stimulate soluble guanylate cyclase i.e. without previous release of NO have been identified in recent years. The indazole derivative YC 1 was the first NO independent but heme dependent sGC stimulator described Evgenov et al. ibid. . Based on YC 1 further substances were discovered which are more potent than YC 1 and show no relevant inhibition of phosphodiesterases PDE . This led to the identification of the pyrazolopyridine derivatives BAY 41 2272 BAY 41 8543 and BAY 63 2521. Together with the recently published structurally different substances CMF 1571 and A 350619 these compounds form the new class of the sGC stimulators Evgenov et al. ibid. . A common characteristic of this substance class is an NO independent and selective activation of the heme containing sGC. In addition the sGC stimulators in combination with NO have a synergistic effect on sGC activation based on a stabilization of the nitrosyl heme complex. The exact binding site of the sGC stimulators at the sGC is still being debated. If the heme group is removed from the soluble guanylate cyclase the enzyme still has a detectable catalytic basal activity i.e. cGMP is still being formed. The remaining catalytic basal activity of the heme free enzyme cannot be stimulated by any of the stimulators mentioned above Evgenov et al. ibid. .

In addition NO and heme independent sGC activators with BAY 58 2667 as prototype of this class have been identified. Common characteristics of these substances are that in combination with NO they only have an additive effect on enzyme activation and that the activation of the oxidized or heme free enzyme is markedly higher than that of the heme containing enzyme Evgenov et al. ibid. J. P. Stasch et al. 136 2002 773 J. P. Stasch et al. 116 2006 2552 . Spectroscopic studies show that BAY 58 2667 displaces the oxidized heme group which as a result of the weakening of the iron histidine bond is attached only weakly to the sGC. It has also been shown that the characteristic sGC heme binding motif Tyr x Ser x Arg is absolutely essential both for the interaction of the negatively charged propionic acids of the heme group and for the action of BAY 58 2667. Against this background it is assumed that the binding site of BAY 58 2667 at the sGC is identical to the binding site of the heme group J. P. Stasch et al. 116 2006 2552 .

The compounds described in the present invention are now likewise capable of activating the heme free form of soluble guanylate cyclase. This is also confirmed by the fact that these novel activators firstly have no synergistic action with NO at the heme containing enzyme and that secondly their action cannot be blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazolo 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ but is even potentiated by this inhibitor cf. O. V. Evgenov et al. 5 2006 755 J. P. Stasch et al. 116 2006 2552 .

It was thus an object of the present invention to provide novel compounds which act as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase in the manner described above and can be used as such in particular for the treatment and prevention of cardiovascular disorders.

Structurally the compounds of the present invention are distinguished by a terminal alkyl carboxylic acid grouping which is attached in the manner shown below to an oxo substituted azaheterocycle as head group.

EP 0 719 763 A1 EP 0 779 279 A1 and EP 0 802 192 A1 described various phenylacetamide derivatives having an azaheterocyclic partial structure as apolipoprotein B inhibitors for the treatment of atherosclerosis and coronary heart disease and EP 0 608 709 A1 discloses 2 oxochinolinylmethyl substituted phenylacetamides as angiotensin II antagonists for the treatment of arterial hypertension and atherosclerosis. EP 0 842 943 A2 EP 0 842 944 A2 EP 0 842 945 A2 EP 0 918 059 A1 and WO 99 60015 A1 claim inter alia oxoheterocyclically substituted alkylcarboxylic acids as VLA 4 antagonists and inhibitors of leukocyte adhesion. Furthermore WO 01 57002 A1 described certain fused azole derivatives as hypoglycemically active agents.

Compounds according to the invention are the compounds of the formula I and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts the compounds included in the formula I of the formulae mentioned in the following and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts and the compounds included in the formula I and mentioned in the following as embodiment examples and their salts solvates and solvates of the salts where the compounds included in the formula I and mentioned in the following are not already salts solvates and solvates of the salts.

The compounds according to the invention can exist in stereoisomeric forms enantiomers diastereomers depending on their structure. The invention therefore includes the enantiomers or diastereomers and their particular mixtures. The stereoisomerically uniform constituents can be isolated from such mixtures of enantiomers and or diastereomers in a known manner.

Where the compounds according to the invention can occur in tautomeric forms the present invention includes all the tautomeric forms.

Preferred salts in the context of the present invention are physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention. Salts which are not themselves suitable for pharmaceutical uses but can be used for example for isolation or purification of the compounds according to the invention are also included.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention include acid addition salts of mineral acids carboxylic acids and sulfonic acids e.g. salts of hydrochloric acid hydrobromic acid sulfuric acid phosphoric acid methanesulfonic acid ethanesulfonic acid toluenesulfonic acid benzenesulfonic acid naphthalenedisulfonic acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid propionic acid lactic acid tartaric acid malic acid citric acid fumaric acid maleic acid and benzoic acid.

Physiologically acceptable salts of the compounds according to the invention also include salts of conventional bases such as by way of example and preferably alkali metal salts e.g. sodium and potassium salts alkaline earth metal salts e.g. calcium and magnesium salts and ammonium salts derived from ammonia or organic amines having 1 to 16 C atoms such as by way of example and preferably ethylamine diethylamine triethylamine ethyldiisopropylamine monoethanolamine diethanolamine triethanolamine dicyclohexylamine dimethylaminoethanol procaine dibenzylamine N methylmorpholine arginine lysine ethylenediamine and N methylpiperidine.

Solvates in the context of the invention are designated as those forms of the compounds according to the invention which form a complex in the solid or liquid state by coordination with solvent molecules. Hydrates are a specific form of solvates in which the coordination takes place with water. Hydrates are preferred solvates in the context of the present invention.

The present invention moreover also includes prodrugs of the compounds according to the invention. The term prodrugs here designates compounds which themselves can be biologically active or inactive but are converted for example metabolically or hydrolytically into compounds according to the invention during their dwell time in the body.

The present invention comprises in particular hydrolyzable ester derivatives of the carboxylic acids of the formula I according to the invention. These are to be understood as meaning esters which can be hydrolyzed to the free carboxylic acids as the compounds that are mainly active biologically in physiological media under the conditions of the biological tests described later and in particular in vivo by enzymatic or chemical routes. C C alkyl esters in which the alkyl group can be straight chain or branched are preferred as such esters. Particular preference is given to methyl ethyl or tert butyl esters.

In the context of the present invention the substituents have the following meaning unless specified otherwise 

 C C Alkyl and C C alkyl in the context of the invention represent a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 1 to 6 or respectively 1 to 4 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms is preferred. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl n pentyl 2 pentyl 3 pentyl n hexyl 2 hexyl and 3 hexyl.

 C C Alkyl in the context of the invention represents a straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 3 to 6 carbon atoms. A straight chain or branched alkyl radical having 3 to 5 carbon atoms is preferred. There may be mentioned by way of example and preferably n propyl isopropyl n butyl isobutyl sec butyl tert butyl n pentyl 2 pentyl 3 pentyl n hexyl 2 hexyl and 3 hexyl.

 C C Alkenyl and C C alkenyl in the context of the invention represent a straight chain or branched alkenyl radical having a double bond and 3 to 6 and 2 to 4 carbon atoms respectively. A straight chain or branched alkenyl radical having 3 to 5 carbon atoms or a straight chain alkenyl radical having 2 or 3 carbon atoms is preferred. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference vinyl allyl isopropenyl n but 2 en 1 yl 2 methylprop 2 en 1 yl and n but 3 en 1 yl.

 C C Alkanediyl and C C alkanediyl in the context of the invention represent a straight chain divalent alkyl radical having 3 to 7 and 3 to 6 carbon atoms respectively. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference propane 1 3 diyl 1 3 propylene butane 1 4 diyl 1 4 butylene pentane 1 5 diyl 1 5 pentylene hexane 1 6 diyl 1 6 hexylene and heptane 1 7 diyl 1 7 heptylene .

 C C Alkenediyl and C C alkenediyl in the context of the invention represent a straight chain divalent alkyl radical having 3 to 7 and 3 to 6 carbon atoms respectively and a double bond.

The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference propene 1 3 diyl but 2 ene 1 4 diyl pent 2 ene 1 5 diyl hex 2 ene 1 6 diyl hex 3 ene 1 6 diyl hept 2 ene 1 7 diyl and hept 3 ene 1 7 diyl.

 C C Alkoxy in the context of the invention represents a straight chain or branched alkoxy radical having 1 to 4 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference methoxy ethoxy n propoxy isopropoxy n butoxy and tert butoxy.

 C C Cycloalkyl and C C cycloalkyl in the context of the invention represent a monocyclic saturated cycloalkyl group having 3 to 7 and 3 to 6 carbon atoms respectively. A cycloalkyl radical having 3 to 6 carbon atoms is preferred. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and cycloheptyl.

 C C Cycloalkenyl and C C cycloalkenyl in the context of the invention represent a mono cyclic cycloalkyl group having 3 to 7 and 4 to 6 ring carbon atoms respectively and a ring double bond. A cycloalkenyl radical having 4 to 6 particularly preferably 5 or 6 carbon atoms is preferred. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference cyclopropenyl cyclobutenyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl and cycloheptenyl.

 C C Cycloalkane 1 1 diyl in the context of the invention represents a 1 1 divalent monocyclic saturated cycloalkyl group having 3 to 6 carbon atoms. The following may be mentioned by way of example and by way of preference cyclopropane 1 1 diyl cyclobutane 1 1 diyl cyclopentane 1 1 diyl and cyclohexane 1 1 diyl.

4 to 7 membered heterocyclyl and 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl in the context of the invention represent a monocyclic saturated heterocycle having a total of 4 to 7 and 4 to 6 ring atoms respectively which contains one or two ring heteroatoms from the group consisting of N O and S and is attached via a ring carbon atom or if appropriate via a ring nitrogen atom. Preference is given to 4 to 6 membered heterocyclyl having one or two ring heteroatoms from the group consisting of N and O. The following may be mentioned by way of example azetidinyl oxetanyl pyrrolidinyl pyrazolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl piperazinyl tetrahydropyranyl morpho linyl thiomorpholinyl hexahydroazepinyl and hexahydro 1 4 diazepinyl. Preference is given to azetidinyl oxetanyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl piperidinyl piperazinyl tetrahydropyranyl and morpholinyl.

Halogen in the context of the invention includes fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine. Chlorine fluorine and bromine are preferred with fluorine and chlorine being particularly preferred.

An oxo substituent in the context of the invention represents an oxygen atom which is bonded to a carbon atom via a double bond.

If radicals in the compounds according to the invention are substituted the radicals can be mono or polysubstituted unless specified otherwise. In the context of the present invention for all the radicals which occur several times the meanings thereof are independent of each other. Substitution by one or by two or three identical or different substituents is preferred. Substitution by one or by two substituents is particularly preferred.

In the context of the present invention particular preference is given to compounds of the formula I in which

The definitions of radicals indicated specifically in the respective combinations or preferred combinations of radicals are replaced as desired irrespective of the particular combinations indicated for the radicals also by definitions of radicals of other combinations.

The invention further relates to a process for preparing the compounds of the formula I according to the invention characterized in that initially either

In the reaction sequence described above it may be expedient where appropriate to reverse the order of individual transformations. Thus it is possible for example to convert the compound of the formula VII A Tin VII tert butyl 

Separation of the compounds of the invention into the corresponding enantiomers and or diastereomers can take place where appropriate depending on expediency even at the stage of the compounds IX X or XII which are then reacted further in separated form in accordance with the above described process sequences. Such a fractionation of the stereoisomers can be carried out by conventional methods known to the skilled person chromatographic methods or separation via diastereomeric salts are preferably used.

Inert solvents for the process step II III IV are for example ethers such as diethyl ether methyl tert butyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions or dipolar aprotic solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidinone NMP . It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to using tetrahydrofuran dimethylformamide or mixtures of these.

Suitable bases for the process step II III IV are customary strong inorganic or organic bases. These include in particular alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or sodium tert butoxide or potassium tert butoxide alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride or amides such as lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethylsilyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide. Preference is given to using potassium tert butoxide sodium hydride or lithium diisopropylamide.

The reaction II III IV is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 100 C. to 30 C. preferably at from 78 C. to 0 C.

The ester arylation in process step V VI IV is preferably carried out in toluene or toluene tetrahydrofuran mixtures in a temperature range of from 20 C. to 100 C. A base particularly suitable for the deprotonation in this reaction is lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide. Suitable palladium catalysts are for example palladium II acetate or tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium in combination with electron rich sterically demanding phosphine ligands such as 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 N N dimethylamino biphenyl or 2 di tert butylphosphino 2 N N dimethylamino biphenyl cf. for example W. A. Moradi S. L. Buchwald 123 7996 8002 2001 .

The bromination in process step IV VII is preferably carried out in a halogenated hydrocarbon as solvent in particular in dichloromethane or carbon tetrachloride in a temperature range of from 40 C. to 100 C. Suitable brominating agents are elemental bromine in the presence of light and also in particular N bromosuccinimide NBS with addition of azobis iso butyronitrile AIBN or dibenzoyl peroxide as initiator cf. for example R. R. Kurtz D. J. Houser 46 202 1981 Z. J. Yao et al. 55 2865 1999 .

Inert solvents for the process steps VII VIII IX and XIV VIII XII are for example ethers such as diethyl ether methyl tert butyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane chlorobenzene or chlorotoluene or other solvents such as dimethylformamide DMF dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU N methylpyrroli dinone NMP acetonitrile or pyridine. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to using tetrahydrofuran dimethylformamide or mixtures of these.

Suitable bases for these reactions are the customary inorganic or organic bases. These include in particular alkali metal hydroxides such as for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide alkali metal carbonates such as lithium carbonate sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or cesium carbonate alkali metal alkoxides such as sodium methoxide or potassium methoxide sodium ethoxide or potassium ethoxide or sodium tert butoxide or potassium tert butoxide alkali metal hydrides such as sodium hydride or potassium hydride or amides such as lithium bis trimethylsilyl amide sodium bis trimethylsilyl amide or potassium bis trimethyl silyl amide or lithium diisopropylamide. Preference is given to using cesium carbonate or sodium hydride.

The reactions VII VIII IX and XIV VIII XII are generally carried out in a temperature range of from 20 C. to 120 C. preferably in the range from 0 C. to 80 C.

The removal of the ester group Tor Tin the process steps IX X XII I and VII A XIII is carried out by customary methods by treating the esters in inert solvents with acids or bases where in the latter case the salts initially formed are converted by treatment with acid into the free carboxylic acids. In the case of the tert butyl esters the ester hydrolysis is preferably carried out using acids.

Suitable inert solvents for these reactions are water or the organic solvents customary for an ester hydrolysis. These preferably include alcohols such as methanol ethanol n propanol isopropanol n butanol or tert butanol or ethers such as diethyl ether tetrahydrofuran dioxane or glycol dimethyl ether or other solvents such as acetone dichloromethane dimethylformamide or dimethyl sulfoxide. It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. In the case of a basic ester hydrolysis preference is given to using mixtures of water with dioxane tetrahydrofuran methanol and or ethanol. In the case of the reaction with trifluoroacetic acid preference is given to using dichloromethane and in the case of the reaction with hydrogen chloride preference is given to using tetrahydrofuran diethyl ether dioxane or water.

Suitable bases are the customary inorganic bases. These include in particular alkali metal or alkaline earth metal hydroxides such as for example lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide potassium hydroxide or barium hydroxide or alkali metal or alkaline earth metal carbonates such as sodium carbonate potassium carbonate or calcium carbonate. Preference is given to lithium hydroxide sodium hydroxide or potassium hydroxide.

Suitable acids for the ester hydrolysis are in general sulfuric acid hydrogen chloride hydrochloric acid hydrogen bromide hydrobromic acid phosphoric acid acetic acid trifluoroacetic acid toluenesulfonic acid methanesulfonic acid or trifluoromethanesulfonic acid or mixtures thereof if appropriate with addition of water. Preference is given to hydrogen chloride or trifluoroacetic acid in the case of the tert butyl esters and hydrochloric acid in the case of the methyl esters.

The ester hydrolysis is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 20 C. to 100 C. preferably at from 0 C. to 60 C.

Inert solvents for the process steps X XI XII and XIII XI XIV amide coupling are for example ethers such as diethyl ether tert butyl methyl ether dioxane tetrahydrofuran glycol dimethyl ether or diethylene glycol dimethyl ether hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene hexane cyclohexane or mineral oil fractions halogenated hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane trichloromethane carbon tetrachloride 1 2 dichloroethane trichloroethylene or chlorobenzene or other solvents such as acetone acetonitrile ethyl acetate pyridine dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO dimethylformamide DMF N N dimethylpropyleneurea DMPU or N methylpyrrolidinone NMP . It is also possible to use mixtures of the solvents mentioned. Preference is given to dichloromethane tetrahydrofuran dimethylformamide or mixtures of these solvents.

Suitable condensing agents for these coupling reactions are for example carbodiimides such as N N diethyl N N dipropyl N N diisopropyl N N dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC or N 3 dimethylaminoisopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC phosgene derivatives such as N N carbonyldiimidazole CDI 1 2 oxazolium compounds such as 2 ethyl 5 phenyl 1 2 oxazolium 3 sulfate or 2 tert butyl 5 methylisoxazolium perchlorate acylamino compounds such as 2 ethoxy 1 ethoxycarbonyl 1 2 dihydroquinoline or isobutyl chloroformate propanephosphonic anhydride diethyl cyanophosphonate bis 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl phosphoryl chloride benzotriazol 1 yloxy tris dimethylamino phosphonium hexafluorophosphate benzotriazol 1 yloxy tris pyrrolidi no phosphonium hexafluorophosphate PyBOP O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyl uronium tetrafluoroborate TBTU O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexa fluorophosphate HBTU 2 2 oxo 1 2H pyridyl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TPTU O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU or O 1H 6 chlorobenzotriazol 1 yl 1 1 3 3 tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TCTU if appropriate in combination with further auxiliaries such as 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt or N hydroxysuccinimide HOSu and as bases alkali metal carbonates for example sodium carbonate or potassium carbonate or organic bases such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methyl piperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine or 4 N N dimethylaminopyridine. Preference is given to using O 7 azabenzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium hexafluorophosphate HATU or O benzotriazol 1 yl N N N N tetramethyluronium tetrafluoroborate TBTU in each case in combination with pyridine or N N diisopropylethylamine or N 3 dimethylaminoisopropyl N ethylcarbodiimide hydrochloride EDC in combination with 1 hydroxybenzotriazole HOBt and triethylamine

The couplings X XI XII and XIII XI XIV are generally carried out in a temperature range of from 0 C. to 60 C. preferably at from 10 C. to 40 C.

When a carbonyl chloride corresponding to the compound X or XIII is used the coupling with the amine component XI is carried out in the presence of a customary organic auxiliary base such as triethylamine N methylmorpholine N methylpiperidine N N diisopropylethylamine pyridine 4 N N dimethylaminopyridine 1 8 diazabicyclo 5.4.0 undec 7 ene DBU or 1 5 diazabicyclo 4.3.0 non 5 ene DBN . Preference is given to using triethylamine or N N diisopropylethylamine.

The reaction of the amine XI with the carbonyl chloride is generally carried out in a temperature range of from 20 C. to 60 C. preferably in the range from 0 C. to 40 C.

For their part the preparation of the carbonyl chlorides is carried out in a customary manner by treating the carboxylic acids X or XIII with thionyl chloride.

The reactions mentioned can be carried out at atmospheric at elevated or at reduced pressure for example from 0.5 to 5 bar . In general they are in each case carried out at atmospheric pressure.

The compounds of the formulae II III V VI VIII and XI are commercially available described as such in the literature or can be prepared analogously to customary processes known from the literature for compounds of the formula XI see also Synthesis Schemes 3 5 below .

The preparation of the compounds of the invention can be illustrated in an exemplary manner by the following reaction schemes 

The compounds according to the invention have valuable pharmacological properties and can be used for the prevention and treatment of disorders in humans and animals.

The compounds according to the invention are potent activators of soluble guanylate cyclase. They lead to vasorelaxation inhibition of platelet aggregation and lowering of blood pressure and increase of coronary blood flow. These effects are mediated via direct heme independent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and an increase of intracellular cGMP.

The compounds according to the invention can therefore be employed in medicaments for the treatment of cardiovascular disorders such as for example for the treatment of high blood pressure and heart failure stable and unstable angina pectoris pulmonary hypertension renal hypertension peripheral and cardiac vascular disorders arrhythmias for the treatment of thromboembolic disorders and ischemias such as myocardial infarction stroke transistory and ischemic attacks disturbances of peripheral blood flow prevention of restenoses as after thrombolysis therapies percutaneous transluminal angioplasties PTAs percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasties PTCAs bypass and for the treatment of arteriosclerosis asthmatic disorders and diseases of the urogenital system such as for example prostate hypertrophy erectile dysfunction female sexual dysfunction and incontinence osteoporosis glaucoma and gastroparesis.

The compounds according to the invention can additionally be used for the treatment of primary and secondary Raynaud s phenomenon of microcirculation impairments claudication peripheral and autonomic neuropathies diabetic microangiopathies diabetic retinopathy diabetic ulcers on the extremities CREST syndrome erythematosis onychomycosis and rheumatic disorders.

In addition the compounds according to the invention can be used for preventing ischemia and or reperfusion related damage to organs or tissues and also as additives for perfusion and preservation solutions of organs organ parts tissues or tissue parts of human or animal origin in particular for surgical interventions or in the field of transplantation medicine.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore suitable for the treatment of respiratory distress syndromes and chronic obstructive airway disorders COPD of acute and chronic renal failure and for promoting wound healing.

The compounds described in the present invention also represent active ingredients for controlling central nervous system diseases characterized by disturbances of the NO cGMP system. They are suitable in particular for improving perception concentration learning or memory after cognitive impairments like those occurring in particular in association with situations diseases syndromes such as mild cognitive impairment age associated learning and memory impairments age associated memory loss vascular dementia craniocerebral trauma stroke dementia occurring after strokes post stroke dementia post traumatic craniocerebral trauma general concentration impairments concentration impairments in children with learning and memory problems Alzheimer s disease Lewy body dementia dementia with degeneration of the frontal lobes including Pick s syndrome Parkinson s disease progressive nuclear palsy dementia with corticobasal degeneration amyolateral sclerosis ALS Huntington s disease multiple sclerosis thalamic degeneration Creutzfeld Jacob dementia HIV dementia schizophrenia with dementia or Korsakoff s psychosis. They are also suitable for the treatment of central nervous system disorders such as states of anxiety tension and depression CNS related sexual dysfunctions and sleep disturbances and for controlling pathological disturbances of the intake of food stimulants and addictive substances.

The compounds according to the invention are furthermore also suitable for controlling cerebral blood flow and thus represent effective agents for controlling migraine. They are also suitable for the prophylaxis and control of the sequelae of cerebral infarctions Apoplexia cerebri such as stroke cerebral ischemias and craniocerebral trauma. The compounds according to the invention can likewise be employed for controlling states of pain.

In addition the compounds according to the invention have an anti inflammatory effect and can therefore be employed as anti inflammatory agents.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention for producing a medicament for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to the use of the compounds according to the invention in a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders.

The present invention further relates to a method for the treatment and or prevention of disorders especially of the aforementioned disorders by using an effective amount of at least one of the compounds according to the invention.

The compounds according to the invention can be employed alone or if required in combination with other active ingredients. The present invention further relates to medicaments comprising at least one of the compounds according to the invention and one or more further active ingredients in particular for the treatment and or prevention of the aforementioned disorders. Examples of suitable combination active ingredients which may be preferably mentioned are 

Agents having antithrombotic activity preferably mean compounds from the group of platelet aggregation inhibitors of anticoagulants or of profibrinolytic substances.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a platelet aggregation inhibitor such as for example and preferably aspirin clopidogrel ticlopidin or dipyridamole.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thrombin inhibitor such as for example and preferably ximelagatran melagatran bivalirudin or clexane.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a GPIIb IIIa antagonist such as for example and preferably tirofiban or abciximab.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a factor Xa inhibitor such as for example and preferably rivaroxaban apixaban fidexaban razaxaban fondaparinux idraparinux DU 176b PMD 3112 YM 150 KFA 1982 EMD 503982 MCM 17 MLN 1021 DX 9065a DPC 906 JTV 803 SSR 126512 or SSR 128428.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with heparin or with a low molecular weight LMW heparin derivative.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a vitamin K antagonist such as for example and preferably coumarin.

Agents which lower blood pressure preferably mean compounds from the group of calcium antagonists angiotensin AII antagonists ACE inhibitors endothelin antagonists renin inhibitors alpha receptor blockers beta receptor blockers mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists and of diuretics.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a calcium antagonist such as for example and preferably nifedipine amlodipine verapamil or diltiazem.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an alpha 1 receptor blocker such as for example and preferably prazosin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a beta receptor blocker such as for example and preferably propranolol atenolol timolol pindolol alprenolol oxprenolol penbutolol bupranolol metipranolol nadolol mepindolol carazalol sotalol metoprolol betaxolol celiprolol bisoprolol carteolol esmolol labetalol carvedilol adaprolol landiolol nebivolol epanolol or bucindolol.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an angiotensin AII antagonist such as for example and preferably losartan candesartan valsartan telmisartan or embursatan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACE inhibitor such as for example and preferably enalapril captopril lisinopril ramipril delapril fosinopril quinopril perindopril or trandopril.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an endothelin antagonist such as for example and preferably bosentan darusentan ambrisentan or sitaxsentan.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a renin inhibitor such as for example and preferably aliskiren SPP 600 or SPP 800.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist such as for example and preferably spironolactone or eplerenone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a diuretic such as for example and preferably furosemide.

Agents which modify lipid metabolism preferably mean compounds from the group of CETP inhibitors thyroid receptor agonists cholesterol synthesis inhibitors such as HMG CoA reductase inhibitors or squalene synthesis inhibitors of ACAT inhibitors MTP inhibitors PPAR alpha PPAR gamma and or PPAR delta agonists cholesterol absorption inhibitors polymeric bile acid adsorbents bile acid reabsorption inhibitors lipase inhibitors and of lipoprotein a antagonists.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a CETP inhibitor such as for example and preferably torcetrapib CP 529 414 JJT 705 or CETP vaccine Avant .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a thyroid receptor agonist such as for example and preferably D thyroxine 3 5 3 triiodothyronine T3 CGS 23425 or axitirome CGS 26214 .

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an HMG CoA reductase inhibitor from the class of statins such as for example and preferably lovastatin simvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin atorvastatin rosuvastatin or pitavastatin.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a squalene synthesis inhibitor such as for example and preferably BMS 188494 or TAK 475.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an ACAT inhibitor such as for example and preferably avasimibe melinamide pactimibe eflucimibe or SMP 797.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with an MTP inhibitor such as for example and preferably implitapide BMS 201038 R 103757 or JTT 130.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR gamma agonist such as for example and preferably pioglitazone or rosiglitazone.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a PPAR delta agonist such as for example and preferably GW 501516 or BAY 68 5042.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ezetimibe tiqueside or pamaqueside.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipase inhibitor such as for example and preferably orlistat.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a polymeric bile acid adsorbent such as for example and preferably cholestyramine colestipol colesolvam CholestaGel or colestimide.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a bile acid reabsorption inhibitor such as for example and preferably ASBT IBAT inhibitors such as for example AZD 7806 S 8921 AK 105 BARI 1741 SC 435 or SC 635.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the compounds according to the invention are administered in combination with a lipoprotein a antagonist such as for example and preferably gemcabene calcium CI 1027 or nicotinic acid.

The present invention further relates to medicaments which comprise at least one compound according to the invention normally together with one or more inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients and to the use thereof for the aforementioned purposes.

The compounds according to the invention can act systemically and or locally. For this purpose they can be administered in a suitable way such as for example by the oral parenteral pulmonary nasal sublingual lingual buccal rectal dermal transdermal conjunctival otic routes or as implant or stent.

The compounds according to the invention can be administered in administration forms suitable for these administration routes.

Suitable for oral administration are administration forms which function according to the prior art and deliver the compounds according to the invention rapidly and or in modified fashion and which contain the compounds according to the invention in crystalline and or amorphized and or dissolved form such as for example tablets uncoated or coated tablets for example having enteric coatings or coatings which are insoluble or dissolve with a delay and control the release of the compound according to the invention tablets which disintegrate rapidly in the mouth or films wafers films lyophilisates capsules for example hard or soft gelatin capsules sugar coated tablets granules pellets powders emulsions suspensions aerosols or solutions.

Parenteral administration can take place with avoidance of an absorption step e.g. intravenous intraarterial intracardiac intraspinal or intralumbar or with inclusion of an absorption e.g. intramuscular subcutaneous intracutaneous percutaneous or intraperitoneal . Administration forms suitable for parenteral administration are inter alia preparations for injection and infusion in the form of solutions suspensions emulsions lyophilisates or sterile powders.

Suitable for the other administration routes are for example pharmaceutical forms for inhalation inter alia powder inhalers nebulizers nasal drops solutions or spray tablets for lingual sublingual or buccal administration films wafers or capsules suppositories preparations for the ears or eyes vaginal capsules aqueous suspensions lotions shaking mixtures lipophilic suspensions ointments creams transdermal therapeutic systems e.g. patches milk pastes foams dusting powders implants or stents.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into the stated administration forms. This can take place in a manner known per se by mixing with inert non toxic pharmaceutically suitable excipients. These excipients include inter alia carriers for example microcrystalline cellulose lactose mannitol solvents e.g. liquid polyethylene glycols emulsifiers and dispersants or wetting agents for example sodium dodecyl sulfate polyoxysorbitan oleate binders for example polyvinylpyrrolidone synthetic and natural polymers for example albumin stabilizers e.g. antioxidants such as for example ascorbic acid colorants e.g. inorganic pigments such as for example iron oxides and masking flavors and or odors.

It has generally proved advantageous to administer on parenteral administration amounts of about 0.001 to 1 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 0.5 mg kg of body weight to achieve effective results and on oral administration the dosage is about 0.01 to 100 mg kg preferably about 0.01 to 20 mg kg and very particularly preferably 0.1 to 10 mg kg of body weight.

It may nevertheless be necessary where appropriate to deviate from the stated amounts in particular as a function of the body weight route of administration individual response to the active ingredient nature of the preparation and time or interval over which administration takes place. Thus it may be sufficient in some cases to make do with less than the aforementioned minimum amount whereas in other cases the stated upper limit must be exceeded. It may in the event of administration of larger amounts be advisable to divide these into a plurality of individual doses over the day.

The following exemplary embodiments illustrate the invention. The invention is not restricted to the examples.

The percentage data in the following tests and examples are unless indicated otherwise percentages by weight parts are parts by weight. Solvent ratios dilution ratios and concentration data for the liquid liquid solutions are in each case based on volume.

Instrument Micromass GCT GC 6890 column Restek RTX 35 15 m 200 m 0.33 m constant helium flow rate 0.88 ml min oven 70 C. inlet 250 C. gradient 70 C. 30 C. min 310 C. maintain for 3 min 

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type Waters Alliance 2795 column Phenomenex Synergi 2.5 MAX RP 100A Mercury 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 0.1 min 90 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.0 min 5 A 4.01 min 90 A flow rate 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Micromass Quattro Premier with Waters HPLC Acquity column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 1.9 50 mm 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 0.1 min 90 A 1.5 min 10 A 2.2 min 10 A flow rate 0.33 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

MS instrument type Micromass ZQ HPLC instrument type HP 1100 Series UV DAD column Phenomenex Gemini 3 30 mm 3.00 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 2.5 min 30 A 3.0 min 5 A 4.5 min 5 A flow rate0.0 min 1 ml min 2.5 min 3.0 min 4.5 min 2 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 nm.

Instrument Waters Acquity SQD HPLC System column Waters Acquity HPLC HSS T3 1.8 50 mm 1 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.25 ml of 99 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 90 A 1.2 min 5 A 2.0 min 5 A flow rate 0.40 ml min oven 50 C. UV detection 210 400 nm.

MS instrument type Waters Micromass Quattro Micro HPLC instrument type Agilent 1100 Series column Thermo Hypersil GOLD 3 20 mm 4 mm mobile phase A 1 l of water 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid mobile phase B 1 l of acetonitrile 0.5 ml of 50 strength formic acid gradient 0.0 min 100 A 3.0 min 10 A 4.0 min 10 A 4.01 min 100 A flow rate 2.5 ml min 5.00 min 100 A oven 50 C. flow rate 2 ml min UV detection 210 nm.

50.99 g 454.4 mmol of potassium tert butoxide were dissolved in 454 ml of abs. THF and cooled to 0 C. The solution was stirred vigorously and 50 g 478.3 mmol of cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride were added dropwise such that the reaction temperature did not exceed 50 C. cooling required . After the addition has ended the resultant suspension was stirred for another 30 min. After cooling the reaction mixture was under reduced pressure concentrated to about one third of the original volume and then added to 2 liters of saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The pH was adjusted to 8 by addition of saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and the mixture was then extracted three times with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure without heating cold water bath . The residue was distilled at a bath temperature of about 85 C. and 42 mbar. This gave 43.1 g 63.2 of theory of the target compound as a clear liquid.

21.2 ml 52.7 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in n hexane were added dropwise to a solution cooled to 78 C. of 7.4 ml 52.7 mmol of diisopropylamine in 20 ml of abs. THF. During the addition the reaction temperature was kept below 60 C. After 30 min of stirring at 60 C. to 70 C. this solution was added dropwise to a solution cooled to 78 C. of 5.0 g 35.2 mmol of tert butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate and 15.2 g 70.3 mmol of 1 4 dibromobutane in 20 ml of abs. THF. After the end of the addition cooling was removed and the mixture was slowly warmed to RT with stirring. After a further 5 h of stirring at RT the reaction mixture was added to saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The mixture was extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 50 1 . This gave 4.62 g 44.6 of theory of the target compound.

The title compound was obtained in a manner analogous to Example 2A from tert butyl 2 methylpropanoate and 1 4 dibromobutane.

21.2 ml 52.7 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in n hexane were added dropwise to a solution cooled to 78 C. of 7.4 ml 52.7 mmol of diisopropylamine in 20 ml of abs. THF. During the addition the reaction temperature was kept below 60 C. After 30 min of stirring at 60 C. to 70 C. this solution was added dropwise to a solution cooled to 78 C. of 5.0 g 35.2 mmol of tert butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate and 16.2 g 70.3 mmol of 1 4 dibromopentane in 20 ml of abs. THF. After the end of the addition cooling was removed and the mixture was slowly warmed to RT with stirring. After a further 4 h of stirring at RT the reaction mixture was added to saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The mixture was extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase gradient cyclohexane dichloromethane 50 1 to 5 1 . This gave in two batches in total 5.73 g 53.6 of theory of the target compound.

At RT excess sodium azide about 4 6 eq. is added to a solution of the appropriate bromide in DMF about 0.2 to 1 mol l . The suspension is stirred vigorously at 50 80 C. for 2 18 h. After cooling to RT the reaction mixture is diluted for example with ethyl acetate or dichloromethane and washed successively with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and saturated sodium chloride solution. After careful concentration under reduced pressure the crude product may if required be purified by chromatography on silica gel typical mobile phase mixture for example cyclohexane ethyl acetate 100 1 to 10 1 .

0.91 ml 2.28 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in n hexane was added dropwise to a solution cooled to 78 C. of 0.32 ml 2.28 mmol diisopropylamine in 2 ml abs. THF. During the addition the reaction temperature was kept below 60 C. After 30 min of stirring at 60 C. to 70 C. this solution was added dropwise to a solution cooled to 78 C. of 352 mg 1.9 mmol of ethyl 6 azidohexanoate in 2 ml of abs. THF. After the end of the addition the mixture was warmed to 20 C and stirred for another 20 min and 0.18 ml 2.85 mmol of methyl iodide were then added dropwise. After the end of the addition the mixture was slowly warmed to RT and stirred for a further 2 h. The reaction mixture was then added to saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution. The mixture was extracted three times with dichloromethane and the combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 60 1 . This gave 96.4 mg 25.5 of theory of the target compound.

Under argon 4.2 g 15.15 mmol of tert butyl 1 4 bromobutyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were initially charged in 50 ml of DMF 3.34 g 22.72 mmol of phthalimide and 4.19 g 30.3 mmol of potassium carbonate were added and the mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then filtered and the filtrate was diluted with water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . This gave 4.23 g 81.3 of theory of the target compound.

10.0 g about 90 pure 62.4 mmol of 6 oxoheptanoic acid were initially charged in 71.8 ml of cyclohexane and 20.46 g 93.6 mmol of tert butyl 2 2 2 trichloroacetimidate and 15 ml of dichloromethane were added. At 10 C. 0.55 ml 6.24 mmol of trifluoromethanesulfonic acid were slowly added dropwise to the solution. The resulting suspension was stirred overnight with warming to RT. The insoluble precipitate was then removed by filtration. The filtrate was washed twice with sodium bicarbonate solution and with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . On standing overnight a solid precipitated from the product obtained in this manner. This solid was removed by filtration with suction and discarded. The target product obtained in the form of the filtrate was not purified any further. This gave 4.51 g 36.1 of theory of the title compound.

At RT 7.70 g 99.86 mmol of ammonium acetate and 941 mg 14.98 mmol of sodium cyano borohydride were added to a solution of 2.0 g 9.99 mmol of tert butyl 6 oxoheptanoate in 10 ml of methanol. The mixture was stirred at RT overnight and then added to water. Using 10 strength aqueous sodium hydroxide solution the pH was adjusted to about 10 and the mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The organic phases were combined dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Drying under high vacuum gave 1.95 g about 80 pure about 78 of theory of the target compound.

Hydrogenation catalyst for example 5 or 10 palladium on carbon is added to a solution of the appropriate azide in ethanol or methanol if appropriate with addition of water . The reaction mixture is stirred vigorously under an atmosphere of hydrogen at atmospheric pressure until the reaction has gone to completion and then filtered off through kieselguhr. The filter residue is washed with ethanol or methanol the filtrates obtained are combined and carefully concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue is briefly dried under high vacuum. The amine obtained in this manner can be used without further purification for the subsequent reactions.

Alternative to the above process the title compound could also be prepared from tert butyl 1 4 1 3 dioxo 1 3 dihydro 2H isoindol 2 yl butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate 

At RT 0.29 g 5.8 mmol of hydrazine hydrate was added to a solution of 1.0 g 2.91 mmol of tert butyl 1 4 1 3 dioxo 1 3 dihydro 2H isoindol 2 yl butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 20 ml of ethanol. The mixture was stirred under reflux for 45 min. The reaction mixture was then filtered and the filtrate was concentrated at 20 C. on a rotary evaporator. The residue was taken up in dichloromethane and washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated at 20 C. under reduced pressure. This gave 0.6 g 97.2 of theory of the target compound. The substance was stored at 20 C. or directly reacted further.

2.50 g 9.33 mmol of 2 3 bromopropyl 1H isoindole 1 3 2H dione in 25 ml of xylene were degassed with argon and 2.45 g 9.33 mmol of triphenylphosphine were added. The mixture was stirred under reflux for 24 h and then filtered at 70 C. The filter cake was washed with a little di ethyl ether and dried under high vacuum. This gave 3.50 g 70.8 of theory of the title compound.

At 0 C. 5.05 g 11.9 mmol of Dess Martin periodane reagent were added to a solution of 1.225 g 8.5 mmol of ethyl 1 hydroxymethylcyclopropanecarboxylate for the preparation see for example T. A. Ayers 40 30 5467 5470 1999 in 43 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture was then stirred at RT for 6 h. A solution of 6.7 g 42.5 mmol of sodium thiosulfate in 60 ml of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution was then added to the reaction mixture. The mixture was stirred at RT for 20 min and the phases were then separated. The organic phase was washed twice with water dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated at 20 C. under reduced pressure. This gave 1.139 g 80.0 of theory of the target compound.

Under argon 600 mg 3.377 mmol of ethyl 1 formylcyclopropanecarboxylate and 1.79 g 3.377 mmol of 3 1 3 dioxo 1 3 dihydro 2H isoindol 2 yl propyl triphenyl phosphonium bromide were initially charged in 12 ml of dry DMSO and at 6 C. a solution of 379 mg 3.377 mmol of potassium tert butoxide in 3 ml of DMSO was added. The mixture was stirred at 6 C. for 25 min and then warmed to RT and stirred for a further 4 h. 25 ml of water and 35 ml of ethyl acetate were then added and the reaction mixture was extracted. The organic phase was washed twice with water and saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The product was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . This gave 504 mg 47.6 of theory of the title compound as an E Z isomer mixture about 1 2.5 .

48 l 0.99 mmol of hydrazine hydrate were added to a solution of 255 mg 0.18 mmol of ethyl 1 1E Z 4 1 3 dioxo 1 3 dihydro 2H isoindol 2 yl but 1 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 5.1 ml of ethanol and the mixture was stirred under reflux for 1 h. The resulting precipitate was filtered off with suction and washed with ethanol and the filtrate was concentrated at 20 C. under reduced pressure. This gave 220 mg of the crude title compound E Z isomer mixture which was used without further purification for subsequent reactions.

45.69 g 222.2 mmol of copper I bromide dimethyl sulfide complex and 9.42 g 222.2 mmol of anhydrous lithium chloride were dissolved in 300 ml of THF the mixture was cooled to 78 C. and 100 ml 200 mmol of a 2 M solution of allylmagnesium bromide in diethyl ether were added slowly. 28.2 ml 222.2 mmol of chlorotrimethylsilane and 11.21 g 100 mmol of methyl cyclopropylideneacetate CAS Registry No. 110793 87 8 were then added dropwise in succession to the reaction solution and the mixture was stirred for about 5 min monitored by TLC mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . 50 ml of an aqueous solution of ammonia ammonium chloride 1 9 were then added and the reaction solution was filtered through kieselguhr. The organic phase was separated off and the aqueous phase was extracted two more times with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases were then washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in 100 ml of THF and 222 ml 222 mmol of a 1 M solution of tetrabutylammonium fluoride in THF were added. The reaction solution was stirred for another 10 min and then concentrated to dryness. The crude product obtained was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gave 6.92 g 45 mmol 45 of theory of the title compound.

Under argon and at 0 C. 3.4 ml 3.4 mmol of borane THF complex solution 1 M in THF were added dropwise to 1542 mg 10 mmol of methyl 1 prop 2 en 1 yl cyclopropyl acetate in 10 ml of anhydrous THF. After 30 min at 0 C. the reaction was stirred at RT for a further 30 min and 22 l 0.54 mmol of methanol were then added. At 5 C. 0.62 ml 12 mmol of bromine and 2971 mg 16.5 mmol of sodium methoxide solution 30 in methanol were then successively added dropwise to the reaction mixture. Once the reaction had reached room temperature 10 ml of saturated sodium bicarbonate solution were added the organic phase was separated off and the aqueous phase was extracted three more times with tert butyl methyl ether. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure gave 683 mg 2.9 mmol 29 of theory of the title compound as a yellow oil.

680 mg 2.89 mmol of methyl 1 3 bromopropyl cyclopropyl acetate and 1128 mg 17.35 mmol of sodium azide in 5 ml of DMF were stirred at 60 C. for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up in ethyl acetate and the solution was washed with saturated sodium chloride solution and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate. Removal of the solvent under reduced pressure gave 389 mg 1.97 mmol 68 of theory of the title compound as a yellow oil.

At room temperature a mixture of 389 mg 1.97 mmol of methyl 1 3 azidopropyl cyclopropyl acetate 40 mg of 10 palladium on carbon and 1.97 ml 1.97 mmol of 1 M hydrochloric acid in 10 ml of ethanol were hydrogenated under atmospheric pressure overnight. After the reaction had ended the mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to dryness. This gave 313 mg 1.51 mmol 76 of theory of the title compound as a colorless oil.

9.9 ml 70.32 mmol of diisopropylamine were initially charged in 35 ml of THF 28.1 ml 70.32 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyllithium in n hexane were added at 40 C. and the mixture was stirred for 30 min. The reaction mixture was then cooled to 78 C. and a solution of 10 g 70.32 mmol of tert butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 5 ml of THF was added dropwise. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 4 h and a solution of 5.8 ml 66.81 mmol of allyl bromide in 5 ml of THF was then added dropwise. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT overnight and aqueous ammonium chloride solution was then added carefully. The mixture was extracted three times with methyl tert butyl ether. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 10.7 g 83.5 of theory of the target compound.

4.0 g 21.9 mmol of tert butyl 1 prop 2 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in 70 ml of methanol and 30 ml of dichloromethane. At 78 C. ozone in a stream of Owas passed through the reaction solution for 45 min using an ozone generator. Once the color of the solution had changed to light blue the reaction solution was flushed with pure oxygen until the color had disappeared again. 6.5 ml 88.9 mmol of dimethyl sulfide were then added and the reaction solution was slowly warmed to RT. The mixture was concentrated on a rotary evaporator and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase gradient cyclohexane ethyl acetate 50 1 30 1 20 1 10 1 . This gave 1.87 g 44.1 of theory of the target compound.

0.425 g 10.63 mmol of sodium hydride were initially charged in 40 ml of THF and 1.6 ml 11.11 mmol of trimethyl phosphonoacetate were added at 0 C. The mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h 1.78 g 9.66 mmol of tert butyl 1 2 oxoethyl cyclopropanecarboxylate were then added and the reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT. The mixture was stirred at RT for another 2 h water was then added and the mixture was extracted three times with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase gradient dichloromethane ethyl acetate 100 0 100 0.1 . This gave 1.32 g 56.7 of theory of the title compound significant excess of trans isomer .

At 90 C. 9.7 ml 9.86 mmol of diisobutylaluminum hydride as a 1 M solution in hexane were slowly added dropwise to a solution of 1.185 g 4.93 mmol of tert butyl cis trans 1 4 methoxy 4 oxobut 2 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 15 ml of dichloromethane. The mixture was stirred at 90 C. for 2 h and about 10 ml of 20 strength aqueous potassium tartrate solution were then added dropwise to the cold mixture. The mixture was then diluted with water and dichloromethane and after phase separation the organic phase was extracted repeatedly with water and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic phase was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase gradient cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 8 1 4 1 2 1 . This gave 0.279 g 26.7 of theory of the target compound significant excess of trans isomer .

302.6 mg 1.43 mmol of tert butyl cis trans 1 4 hydroxybut 2 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in 2 ml of THF and 251.7 mg 1.71 mmol of phthalimide and 411.3 mg 1.57 mmol of triphenylphosphine were added. The reaction mixture was cooled to 10 C. and 713.7 mg 1.639 mmol of a 40 strength solution of diethyl azodicarboxylate in toluene were slowly added dropwise. The mixture was then warmed to RT and stirred for another 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was then added to water and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic phase was dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase gradient cyclohexane ethyl acetate 6 1 4 1 2 1 . This gave 121 mg 24.8 of theory of the target compound significant excess of trans isomer .

At RT 34 l 0.703 mmol of hydrazine hydrate were added to a solution of 120 mg 0.351 mmol of tert butyl cis trans 1 4 1 3 dioxo 1 3 dihydro 2H isoindol 2 yl but 2 en 1 yl cyclo propanecarboxylate in 2.4 ml of ethanol. The mixture was stirred under reflux for 20 min. The reaction mixture was then filtered and the filtrate was concentrated at 20 C. on a rotary evaporator. The residue was taken up in dichloromethane and washed twice with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate and at 20 C. concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 81.2 mg of slightly impure crude product about 109 of theory significant excess of trans isomer . The substance was stored in a freezer until use in subsequent reactions.

With exclusion of oxygen 0.88 ml 6.3 mmol of diisopropylamine were initially charged in 20 ml of THF the mixture was cooled to 78 C. and 2.52 ml 6.3 mmol of a 2.5 M solution of n butyl lithium in hexane were added slowly. The reaction solution was then warmed to 10 C. and stirred at this temperature for 10 min. The reaction solution was then once more cooled to 78 C. and 1 g 4.85 mmol of tert butyl 4 methylphenyl acetate dissolved in 10 ml of THF was added slowly. The reaction solution was then slowly warmed to 30 C. and then once more cooled to 78 C. Once this temperature had been reached 0.62 ml 5.82 mmol of 3 bromo 1 1 1 trifluoropropane was slowly added dropwise. After the addition had ended the solution was slowly warmed to room temperature and stirred overnight. The reaction was checked by TLC mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 after which saturated ammonium chloride solution was added and the mixture was taken up in ethyl acetate. The aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate. After filtration the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . This gave 542 mg 1.79 mmol 37 of theory of a yellowish oil.

Under argon 19.58 g 174.5 mmol of potassium tert butoxide were initially charged in 200 ml of DMF the mixture was cooled to 0 C. 30 g 145.4 mmol of tert butyl 4 methylphenyl acetate dissolved in 50 ml of DMF were added slowly and the mixture was then stirred at 0 C. for 30 min. 18.95 ml 174.5 mmol of 2 bromobutane were then slowly added drowise and the solution was stirred at 0 C. for 4 h. 200 ml of water and 200 ml of diethyl ether were then added to the reaction solution. The aqueous phase was extracted twice with diethyl ether. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate. After filtration the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gave 15.5 g 59.1 mmol 40.6 of theory of a colorless liquid.

Under argon 196.9 mg 0.88 mmol of palladium II acetate and 724.8 mg 1.84 mmol of 2 di cyclohexylphosphino 2 N N dimethylamino biphenyl were initially charged in 50 ml of anhydrous toluene. 43.8 ml 43.8 mmol of a 1 M solution of lithium hexamethyldisilazide in THF were then added slowly and the reaction solution was stirred at room temperature for 10 min. The reaction solution was then cooled to 10 C. 7 g 38.0 mmol of ethyl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl butanoate were added slowly and the mixture was stirred at 10 C. for 10 min. 5 g 29.2 mmol of 4 bromotoluene dissolved in 50 ml of toluene were then added dropwise and the reaction solution was warmed first to room temperature and then to 80 C. The mixture was stirred at this temperature for 2 h and then cooled to room temperature and stirred overnight. After the reaction had ended monitored by TLC mobile phase cyclohexane dichloromethane 2 1 the reaction mixture was filtered through kieselguhr the residue was washed repeatedly with ethyl acetate and dichloromethane and the combined filtrates were concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase petroleum ether dichloromethane 4 1 3 1 . This gave 3.91 g 14.3 mmol 48.8 of theory of the title compound as colorless liquid.

540 mg 1.79 mmol of tert butyl 5 5 5 trifluoro 2 4 methylphenyl pentanoate 333.8 mg 1.78 mmol of N bromosuccinimide and 14.7 mg 0.09 mmol of 2 2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile in 10 ml of carbon tetrachloride were stirred under reflux for 2 h. After the reaction had gone to completion the succinimide was filtered off and the filter residue was washed with dichloromethane. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 10 1 . This gave 659 mg 1.72 mmol 97 of theory of a yellowish oil.

15 g 59.1 mmol of tert butyl 3 methyl 2 4 methylphenyl pentanoate 11 g 62 mmol of N bromosuccinimide and 97 mg 0.59 mmol of 2 2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile in 150 ml of dichloromethane were stirred under reflux for 2 h. After the reaction had gone to completion the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gave 16.22 g 47.5 mmol 80 of theory of a colorless oil.

2.25 g 8.2 mmol of ethyl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 methylphenyl butanoate 1.53 g 8.6 mmol of N bromosuccinimide and 67 mg 0.41 mmol of 2 2 azobis 2 methylpropionitrile in 36 ml of trichloromethane were stirred under reflux overnight. After the reaction had gone to completion the succinimide was filtered off and the filter residue was washed with dichloromethane. The filtrate was concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 40 1 . This gave 2.667 g 7.5 mmol 92 of theory of a yellowish oil.

A suspension of 500 g 3.67 mol of benzenecarbohydrazide in 3.75 liters of THF was heated to reflux whereupon the benzenecarbohydrazide dissolved. 497.7 g 4.41 mol of chloroacetyl chloride dissolved in 125 ml of THF were added dropwise to this solution and the solution was stirred under reflux for another 30 min. After the reaction had gone to completion monitored by TLC mobile phase dichloromethane methanol 9 1 22.5 liters of water and 10 liters of ethyl acetate were added and the mixture was adjusted to pH 7 with solid sodium bicarbonate. The aqueous phase was extracted once with 2.5 liters of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried and the solution was then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The white solid obtained was dissolved in a 1 1 mixture of dichloromethane and methanol and applied to 3 kg of silica gel. Using two portions of silica gel 8 kg each the product was chromatographed using initially 50 liters of dichloromethane ethyl acetate 7 3 and then 125 liters of dichloromethane ethyl acetate 1 1 as mobile phase. Concentration of the product fractions gave 424 g 1.99 mol 54 of theory of the title compound as a white solid.

812 g 3.82 mol of N 2 chloroacetyl benzenecarbohydrazide were dissolved in 13 liters of dry DMF and 384.95 g 4.58 mol of sodium bicarbonate were added. The reaction solution was then heated to 100 C. and stirred at this temperature overnight. After the reaction had gone to completion monitored by TLC mobile phase dichloromethane ethyl acetate 9 1 the reaction solution was cooled to room temperature poured into 65 liters of water and extracted three times with in each case 17.5 liters of ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with 13.8 liters of saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution dried and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The solid obtained was dissolved in a 9 1 mixture of dichloromethane and methanol and applied to 17 kg of silica gel. Using two portions of silica gel 8 kg each the product was chromatographed using 260 liters of dichloromethane ethyl acetate 9 1 as mobile phase. The combined product fractions were concentrated and the resulting solid was triturated with 3 liters of diethyl ether. Filtration gave 247 g 1.40 mol 35 of theory of the title compound as a white solid.

19.6 g 162.95 mmol of 1 phenylethanone and 5 g 54.32 mmol of oxoacetic acid monohydrate were stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. The reaction solution was then cooled to 40 C. and 20 ml of water and 4 ml of ammonia were added. The mixture was then extracted twice with 50 ml of dichloromethane. 2.64 ml 53.32 mmol of hydrazine monohydrate were then added to the aqueous phase and the mixture was stirred at 100 C. for 2 hours. After the reaction the reaction solution was cooled to room temperature. The precipitated crystals were filtered off with suction washed with water and dried in a vacuum drying cabinet at 50 C. overnight. This gave 4.3 g 24.97 mmol 15 of theory of the title compound as colorless crystals.

9.9 g 28.0 mmol of tert butyl 4 bromomethyl phenyl cyclopentyl acetate 5.92 g 33.6 mmol of 2 phenyl 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 5 6H one and 13.70 g 42.03 mmol of cesium carbonate in 100 ml of DMF were stirred at 60 C. for 12 h. After cooling the mixture was added to ice water and extracted with diethyl ether. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 20 1 . This gave 6.6 g 14.7 mmol 52 of theory of the title compound.

8.16 g 23.1 mmol of tert butyl 4 bromomethyl phenyl cyclopentyl acetate 3.7 g 21 mmol of 2 phenyl 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 5 6H one and 7.53 g 23.1 mmol of cesium carbonate in 147 ml of DMF were stirred at room temperature for 12 h. The reaction solution was then stirred with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and evaporated to dryness under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained was purified chromatographically on silica gel mobile phase cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 . This gave 6.51 g 14.5 mmol 69 of theory of the title compound.

7.42 g 16.69 mmol of the racemic tert butyl cyclopentyl4 6 oxo 3 phenylpyridazin 1 6H yl methyl phenylacetate Example 45A were separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase into the enantiomers column Daicel Chiralpak AS H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 75 25 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C. 

 column Daicel Chiralpak AS H 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 75 25 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 40 C. .

 column Daicel Chiralpak AS H 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 75 25 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 40 C. .

At room temperature 22.67 ml 294.3 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid were added slowly to a solution of 6.6 g 14.7 mmol of tert butyl cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetate in 90 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture was stirred overnight. The solvent was then removed under reduced pressure and the residue was taken up in 100 ml of ethyl acetate and extracted with 50 ml of water. The organic phase was dried over magnesium sulfate. After filtration the solvent was removed under reduced pressure. This gave 4.8 g 12.23 mmol 83 of theory of a colorless solid.

75 g 191.1 mmol of racemic cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid Example 49A were separated into the enantiomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column chiral silica gel phase based on the selector poly N methacryloyl L isoleucine 3 pentylamide 430 mm 40 mm mobile phase isohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v flow rate 50 ml min temperature 24 C. UV detection 270 nm 

 column chiral silica gel phase based on the selector poly N methacryloyl L isoleucine 3 pentylamide 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v flow rate 2 ml min temperature 24 C. UV detection 270 nm .

 column chiral silica gel phase based on the selector poly N methacryloyl L isoleucine 3 pentylamide 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane ethyl acetate 1 1 v v flow rate 2 ml min temperature 24 C. UV detection 270 nm .

11.8 g 31.02 mmol of the isomer mixture of 3 methyl 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylpentanoic acid Example 51A were initially separated into the diastereomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column chiral silica gel phase based on the selector poly N methacryloyl D valine 3 pentylamide 500 mm 75 mm mobile phase iso hexane ethyl acetate 30 70 v v flow rate 200 ml min UV detection 290 nm temperature 25 C. . This gave 4.11 g and 5.2 g respectively of the two diastereomers.

4.11 g of diastereomer 1 were separated into the enantiomers isomers 1 and 2 by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 95 5 v v flow rate 25 ml min UV detection 230 nm temperature 24 C. 

 column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 4 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 80 20 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 230 nm temperature 25 C. .

 column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 4 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 80 20 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 230 nm temperature 25 C. .

5.2 g of diastereomer 2 were separated into the enantiomers isomers 3 and 4 by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralcel OJ H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 95 5 v v flow rate 25 ml min UV detection 230 nm temperature 24 C. 

 column Daicel Chiralcel OJ H 5 m 250 mm 4 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 80 20 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 230 nm temperature 25 C. .

11.4 ml 11.4 mmol of 1 N aqueous sodium hydroxide solution were added to a solution of 1283 mg 2.86 mmol of ethyl 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylbutanoate in 10 ml of dioxane and the mixture was stirred at 80 C. overnight. After the reaction had gone to completion the dioxane was removed under reduced pressure and the solution that remained was diluted with water and then adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. The precipitated solid was filtered off washed with water and dried under reduced pressure at 45 C. overnight. This gave 1058 mg 2.52 mmol 88 of theory of the title compound as an isomer mixture.

630 mg 1.50 mmol of the isomer mixture of 4 4 4 trifluoro 3 methyl 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylbutanoic acid were separated into the isomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 75 25 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C. 

 column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 75 25 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C. .

 column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 75 25 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C. .

 column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 75 25 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C. .

R9.17 min purity 99 98 ee column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 75 25 v v flow rate 1 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C. .

At 0 C. 611.3 mg 15.3 mmol 60 of sodium hydride were added to 2.035 g 15.3 mmol of 1 oxoindoline in 12 ml of DMF. The mixture was stirred for 25 min and 6.0 g 12.7 mmol about 75 pure of tert butyl 4 bromomethyl phenyl cyclopentyl acetate were then added at 0 C. The reaction mixture was stirred for a further 4 h while slowly warming to RT water was then added and the mixture was extracted twice with dichloromethane. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated. In an ultrasonic bath the crude product was treated with diethyl ether and the solid was filtered off with suction and dried. This gave 3.40 g 65.2 of theory of the target compound.

The racemate obtained in Example 65A was separated into the enantiomers by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak IA H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm injection volume 0.25 ml temperature 30 C. mobile phase 20 acetonitrile 80 methyl tert butyl ether . 3.40 g of racemate gave 1.50 g of the enantiomer the other enantiomer was not isolated in pure form .

640 l 7.4 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid were added dropwise to a solution of 300 mg 0.740 mmol of tert butyl cyclopentyl4 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2H isoindol 2 yl methyl phenyl ethanoate in 1.5 ml dichloromethane. After 1 h of stirring the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was dried under high vacuum. This gave 267 mg 100 of theory of the title compound.

At RT 41.3 mg 0.306 mmol of HOBt and 126 l 0.764 mmol of DIEA were added to a solution of 100 mg 0.255 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid and 76.9 mg 0.382 mmol of tert butyl 6 aminoheptanoate in 0.3 ml of DMF. The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 C. after which 116.3 mg 0.306 mmol of HATU were added. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT stirred at RT for 1 h and then diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic phase was washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution and with saturated sodium chloride solution dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 118 mg about 83 pure about 67 of theory of the target compound as a diastereomer mixture.

At RT 266 l 1.53 mmol of DIEA were added to a solution of 545.8 mg 1.39 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid and 445 mg about 2.09 mmol crude material of tert butyl 1 4 amino butyl cyclopropanecarboxylate in about 5 ml of DMF. The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 C. and four portions of altogether 687.4 mg 2.09 mmol of HATU were then added. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT stirred at RT for 1 h and then added to water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was initially pre purified by chromatography on silica gel mobile phase gradient cyclohexane ethyl acetate 5 1 to 3 1 . Subsequent preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient gave 378 mg 46.2 of theory of the target compound.

At RT 160 l 0.919 mmol of DIEA were added to a solution of 328.1 mg 0.836 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid and 270 mg about 1.25 mmol crude material of tert butyl 6 amino 2 2 dimethylhexanoate in 3 ml of DMF. The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 C. and four portions of altogether 413.2 mg 1.09 mmol of HATU were then added. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT stirred at RT for 16 h and then added to water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the residue by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient gave 179.8 mg 36.5 of theory of the target compound.

At RT 72 l 0.415 mmol of DIEA were added to a solution of 148 mg 0.377 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid and 98 mg about 0.66 mmol crude material of ethyl 6 amino 2 methylhexanoate in 1.0 ml of DMF. The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 C. and four portions of altogether 186.4 mg 0.49 mmol of HATU were then added. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT stirred at RT for 16 h and then added to water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the residue by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient gave 134.0 mg 64.9 of theory of the target compound as a diastereomer mixture.

The diastereomer mixture obtained above 95 mg was separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak IA 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 3 ml mobile phase 90 tert butyl methyl ether 10 methanol flow rate 25 ml min temperature RT detection 260 nm 

At RT 253 l 1.45 mmol of DIEA were added to a solution of 517.9 mg 1.32 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid and 450 mg about 1.98 mmol crude material of tert butyl 1 4 aminopentyl cyclo propanecarboxylate in 2.5 ml of DMF. The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 C. and four portions of altogether 186.4 mg 0.49 mmol of HATU were then added. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT stirred at RT for 16 h and then added to water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the crude product by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient gave 540.0 mg 68.0 of theory of the target compound as a diastereomer mixture.

The diastereomer mixture obtained above 536 mg was separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak IA 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 2 ml mobile phase 90 tert butyl methyl ether 10 methanol flow rate 20 ml min temperature RT detection 260 nm 

At RT 106 l 0.607 mmol of DIEA were added to a solution of 210 mg 0.552 mmol of 3 methyl 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylpentanoic acid isomer 2 and 177 mg 0.828 mmol of tert butyl 1 4 aminobutyl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 2.0 ml of DMF. The resulting mixture was cooled to 0 C. and four portions of altogether 273 mg 0.718 mmol of HATU were then added. The reaction mixture was slowly warmed to RT stirred at RT for 16 h and then added to water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. Purification of the residue by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient gave 264.0 mg 83.1 of theory of the target compound.

200 mg 0.51 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid were initially charged in 0.5 ml of DMF and 0.31 ml 3.82 mmol of pyridine 213.2 mg 0.561 mmol of 1 bis dimethylamino methylene 5 chloro 3 oxy 1H benzotriazol 1 ium tetrafluoroborate and 93.4 mg 0.51 mmol of ethyl 1 1E Z 4 aminobut 1 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate were added and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was then diluted with a little acetonitrile and purified directly by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 123 mg 41.8 of theory of the target compound as an E Z isomer mixture about 1 4 .

At 0 C. and under argon 390 l 2.232 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine 206.3 mg 0.967 mmol of tert butyl 1 4 aminobutyl cyclopropanecarboxylate and then a little at a time altogether 339.5 mg 0.893 mmol of HATU were added to a solution of 260 mg 0.744 mmol of cyclopentyl4 1 oxo 1 3 dihydro 2H isoindol 2 yl methyl phenylethanoic acid and 120.7 mg 0.893 mmol of 1 hydroxy 1H benzotriazole hydrate in 2 ml of DMF. The mixture was stirred initially at 0 C. for 1 h and then at RT for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then poured into water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. A little acetonitrile was added to the residue and the product was purified by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 325 mg 80.3 of theory of the target compound.

At 0 C. and under argon 143 l 0.819 mmol of N N diisopropylethylamine 75.0 mg about 0.35 mmol crude material of tert butyl cis trans 1 2E Z 4 aminobut 2 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate and then a little at a time altogether 124.9 mg 0.328 mmol of HATU were added to a solution of 107.2 mg 0.273 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylethanoic acid and 44.3 mg 0.328 mmol of 1 hydroxy 1H benzotriazole hydrate in 1.5 ml of DMF. The mixture was stirred initially at 0 C. for 1 h and then at RT for 2 h. The reaction mixture was then poured into water and extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. A little acetonitrile was added to the residue and the product was purified by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 121 mg 75.5 of theory of the target compound significant excess of trans isomer .

The cis trans isomer mixture obtained above 120 mg was separated by preparative HPLC column Kromasil 100 C 18 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 2 ml mobile phase 70 acetonitrile 30 aqueous formic acid 0.2 flow rate 25 ml min temperature 35 C. detection 210 nm 

200 mg 0.515 mmol of 2S cyclopentyl4 6 oxo 3 phenylpyridazin 6H yl methyl phenylethanoic acid were dissolved in 1.2 ml of DMF the mixture was cooled to 0 C. and 83.5 mg 0.618 mmol of HOBt 0.27 ml 1.55 mmol of DIEA 113.2 mg about 0.618 mmol crude material of ethyl 1 1E Z 4 aminobut 1 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate and a little at a time altogether 234.9 mg 0.618 mmol of HATU were added in succession. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 1 h and then slowly warmed to RT. The reaction mixture was then added to water and extracted repeatedly with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 160 mg 56.1 of theory of the target compound as a cis trans isomer mixture.

The cis trans isomer mixture obtained above was separated by preparative HPLC column Kromasil 100 C 18 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.5 ml mobile phase 75 acetonitrile 25 water flow rate 25 ml min temperature 34.5 C. detection 210 nm . 160 mg of mixture gave 11 mg of the trans isomer and 95 mg of the cis isomer see Example 84A .

A solution of 591 mg 1.51 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxa diazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid enantiomer 2 376 mg 1.81 mmol of methyl 1 3 amino propyl cyclopropyl acetate hydrochloride 859 mg 2.26 mmol of HATU and 1 ml of N N diiso propylethylamine in 10 ml of DMF was stirred at room temperature overnight. After the reaction had ended the mixture was poured into ice water the phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted three times with tert butyl methyl ether. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and after filtration the solvent was removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained was purified by preparative RP HPLC. This gave 233 mg 0.43 mmol 28.5 of theory of the title compound as a colorless oil.

A solution of 113 mg 0.29 mmol of cyclopentyl4 6 oxo 3 phenylpyridazin 6H yl methyl phenylacetic acid enantiomer 1 75 mg 0.35 mmol of tert butyl 1 4 aminobutyl cyclo propanecarboxylate 167 mg 0.44 mmol of HATU and 0.15 ml 0.88 mmol of N N diisopropyl ethylamine in 3.5 ml of DMF was stirred at room temperature overnight. After the reaction had ended the mixture was poured into ice water the phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted three times with tert butyl methyl ether. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and after filtration the solvent was removed to dryness under reduced pressure. This gave 197 mg of the crude title compound which was used without further purification for the subsequent reaction.

A solution of 72 mg 0.18 mmol of cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxa diazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetic acid enantiomer 2 30 mg 0.15 mmol of methyl 7 amino heptanoate hydrochloride 87 mg 0.23 mmol of HATU and 0.8 ml of pyridine in 3.2 ml of DMF was stirred at room temperature overnight. After the reaction had ended the mixture was poured into ice water the phases were separated and the aqueous phase was extracted three times with tert butyl methyl ether. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and after filtration the solvent was removed to dryness under reduced pressure. The crude product obtained was purified by preparative RP HPLC. This gave 13 mg 0.02 mmol 13 of theory of the title compound as a colorless oil.

At 0 C. to RT trifluoroacetic acid TFA is added dropwise to a solution of the tert butyl ester in dichloromethane concentration 0.1 to 1.0 mol l additionally optionally a drop of water until a dichloromethane TFA ratio of about 2 1 to 1 2 has been reached. The reaction mixture is stirred at RT for 1 18 h if appropriate the mixture is warmed to 40 C. until complete conversion is achieved and then concentrated under reduced pressure. The reaction product can if required be purified by crystallization from water acetonitrile mixtures or by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase acetonitrile water gradient .

The diastereomer mixture obtained in Example 7 50 mg was separated by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak OJ H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.6 ml mobile phase 70 isohexane 30 ethanol flow rate 20 ml min temperature RT detection 230 nm 

At 0 C. to RT 1.5 to 5 eq. of lithium hydroxide are added to a solution of the methyl or ethyl ester in THF THF methanol or THF ethanol concentration about 0.05 to 0.5 mol l . The mixture is stirred for 0.5 18 h warming to RT and then neutralized or made slightly acidic with 1 N hydrochloric acid. If this results in the precipitation of a solid the product can be isolated by filtration washing with water and drying under high vacuum. Alternatively the target compound is isolated directly from the crude product or after extractive work up with dichloromethane or ethyl acetate by preparative RP HPLC mobile phase water acetonitrile gradient .

86 mg 2.15 mmol of sodium hydroxide were added to a solution of 120 mg 0.215 mmol of ethyl cis trans 1 4 2 cyclopentyl 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetyl aminobut 1 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 0.23 ml of THF and 0.56 ml of ethanol. The suspension was stirred at RT for 20 min and then acidified slightly with 1 N hydrochloric acid. The mixture was extracted three times with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were washed with saturated aqueous ammonium chloride solution dried over magnesium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. This gave 112 mg of the target compound as a cis trans isomer mixture.

The cis trans mixture obtained was then separated by preparative HPLC column Kromasil 100 C 18 5 m 250 mm 20 mm injection volume 0.7 ml mobile phase 40 0.2 strength trifluoroacetic acid 60 acetonitrile flow rate 25 ml min temperature 40 C. detection 210 nm . 112 mg of the stereoisomer mixture gave 66 mg of the cis isomer see Example 13 and 11 mg of the trans isomer see Example 14 .

At RT 0.12 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was added dropwise to a solution of 61 mg 0.104 mmol of tert butyl trans 1 2E 4 2 cyclopentyl 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetyl aminobut 2 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate in 0.1 ml of dichloromethane. The mixture was stirred at RT for 1 h and another 0.12 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was then added. After a further 2 h at RT the reaction mixture was concentrated under reduced pressure and the residue was purified by preparative RP HPLC acetonitrile water gradient . This gave 42 mg 76.2 of theory of the target compound.

90 mg 0.163 mmol of ethyl cis 1 1Z 4 2 cyclopentyl 2 4 6 oxo 3 phenylpyridazin 6H yl methyl phenylacetyl aminobut 1 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in a mixture of 100 l of water 100 l of THF and 100 l of methanol and 17.1 mg 0.406 mmol of lithium hydroxide were added at 0 C. The mixture was warmed to RT. Since no conversion was detected a relatively large excess of sodium hydroxide was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction mixture was then added to ice water and acidified slightly with 1 N hydrochloric acid. The precipitated solid was filtered off with suction washed repeatedly with water and dried under high vacuum. This gave 78 mg 91.3 of theory of the target compound.

11.0 mg 0.020 mmol of ethyl trans 1 1E 4 2 cyclopentyl 2 4 6 oxo 3 phenylpyridazin 1 6H yl methyl phenylacetyl aminobut 1 en 1 yl cyclopropanecarboxylate were dissolved in a mixture of 50 l of water 50 l of THF and 50 l of methanol and 8 mg 0.2 mmol of sodium hydroxide were added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT for 3 h and then diluted with water and the pH was adjusted to 2 using 1 N hydrochloric acid. The aqueous phase was extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated under reduced pressure. The residue was taken up in about 0.5 ml of 1 4 dioxane frozen at 78 C. and lyophilized under high vacuum. This gave 9.6 mg 91.9 of theory of the target compound.

71 mg 1.69 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate were added to a solution of 230 mg 0.42 mmol of methyl 1 3 cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetyl amino propylcyclopropyl acetate in 2.8 ml of THF and 1.4 ml of water and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. After the reaction had gone to completion the THF was removed under reduced pressure and the reaction solution was diluted with water and then adjusted to pH 2 with 1 M hydrochloric acid. The precipitated solid was filtered off washed with water and dried under reduced pressure at 45 C. overnight. This gave 217 mg 0.41 mmol 97 of theory of the title compound as a white solid.

15 mg 0.62 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate were added to a solution of 160 mg 0.31 mmol of methyl 6 cyclopentyl4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylacetyl aminoThexanoate in 4 ml of THF and 4 ml of water and the mixture was stirred at 60 C. overnight. The mixture was then adjusted to pH 4 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. This gave 120 mg 0.24 mmol 77 of theory of the title compound as a white solid.

0.52 ml 6.74 mmol of trifluoroacetic acid was added dropwise to a solution of 197 mg 0.34 mmol of tert butyl 1 4 cyclopentyl4 6 oxo 3 phenylpyridazin 6H yl methyl phenyl acetyl amino butylcyclopropanecarboxylate in 10 ml of dichloromethane and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The reaction solution was then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The residue was purified by preparative RP HPLC. This gave 99 mg 0.19 mmol 56 of theory of the title compound.

33 mg 0.80 mmol of lithium hydroxide monohydrate were added to a solution of 109 mg 0.20 mmol of methyl 6 5 5 5 trifluoro 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylpentanoyl aminoThexanoate in 2 ml of THF and 1 ml of water and the mixture was stirred at RT overnight. The mixture was then adjusted to pH 2 using 1 M hydrochloric acid and extracted twice with ethyl acetate. The combined organic phases were dried over magnesium sulfate and then concentrated to dryness under reduced pressure. The crude product was purified by preparative RP HPLC. This gave 59 mg 0.11 mmol 56 of theory of the title compound as a colorless oil.

52 mg 0.097 mmol of the racemic 6 5 5 5 trifluoro 2 4 5 oxo 2 phenyl 5 6 dihydro 4H 1 3 4 oxadiazin 4 yl methyl phenylpentanoyl amino hexanoic acid obtained above were separated further by preparative HPLC on a chiral phase column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 20 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 75 25 v v flow rate 15 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 30 C. 

 column Daicel Chiralpak AD H 5 m 250 mm 4.6 mm mobile phase isohexane isopropanol 0.2 trifluoroacetic acid 1 water 75 25 v v flow rate 2 ml min UV detection 220 nm temperature 25 C. 

The pharmacological effect of the compounds according to the invention can be shown in the following assays 

Rabbits are anesthetized and sacrificed by intravenous injection of thiopental sodium about 50 mg kg and exsanguinated. The saphenous artery is removed and divided into rings 3 mm wide. The rings are mounted singly on in each case a pair of triangular hooks open at the end and made of 0.3 mm thick special wire Remanium . Each ring is placed under an initial tension in 5 ml organ baths with Krebs Henseleit solution which is at 37 C. is gassed with carbogen and has the following composition NaCl 119 mM KCl 4.8 mM CaCl 2 HO 1 mM MgSO 7 HO 1.4 mM KHPO1.2 mM NaHCO25 mM glucose 10 mM bovine serum albumin 0.001 . The force of contraction is detected with Statham UC2 cells amplified and digitized via A D converters DAS 1802 HC Keithley Instruments Munich and recorded in parallel on chart recorders. Contractions are induced by addition of phenylephrine.

After several generally 4 control cycles the substance to be investigated is added in each further run in increasing dosage and the level of the contraction achieved under the influence of the test substance is compared with the level of the contraction reached in the last preceding run. The concentration necessary to reduce the contraction reached in the preceding control by 50 is calculated from this IC . The standard application volume is 5 l. The proportion of DMSO in the bath solution corresponds to 0.1 .

Investigations on the stimulation of recombinant soluble guanylate cyclase sGC by the compounds according to the invention with and without sodium nitroprusside and with and without the heme dependent sGC inhibitor 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazolo 4 3a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ are carried out by the method described in detail in the following reference M. Hoenicka E. M. Becker H. Apeler T. Sirichoke H. Schroeder R. Gerzer and J. P. Stasch Purified soluble guanylyl cyclase expressed in a baculovirus Sf9 system Stimulation by YC 1 nitric oxide and carbon oxide 77 1999 14 23. The heme free guanylate cyclase is obtained by adding Tween 20 to the sample buffer 0.5 in the final concentration .

The activation of sGC by a test substance is reported as n fold stimulation of the basal activity. The result for Example 1 is shown in Table 2 

It is evident from Table 2 that stimulation both of the heme containing and of the heme free enzyme is achieved. Furthermore combination of Example 1 and 2 N N diethylamino diazenolate 2 oxide DEA NO an NO donor shows no synergistic effect i.e. the effect of DEA NO is not potentiated as would be expected with an sGC activator acting via a heme dependent mechanism. In addition the effect of the sGC activator according to the invention is not blocked by the heme dependent inhibitor of soluble guanylate cyclase ODQ but is in fact increased. The results in Table 2 thus confirm the mechanism of action of the compounds according to the invention as activators of soluble guanylate cyclase.

The cellular action of the compounds according to the invention is determined at a recombinant guanylate cyclase reporter cell line as described in F. Wunder et al. 339 104 112 2005 .

Soluble guanylate cyclase sGC converts on stimulation GTP into cGMP and pyrophosphate PPi . PPi is detected with the aid of the assay described below. The signal produced in the assay increases as the reaction progresses and serves as a measure of the sGC enzyme activity under the given stimulation.

To carry out the assay 29 l of enzyme solution 0 10 nM soluble guanylate cyclase prepared according to Honicka et al. 77 14 23 1999 in 50 mM TEA 2 mM MgCl 0.1 BSA fraction V 0.005 Brij pH 7.5 are initially introduced into a microplate and 1 l of the substance to be tested as a serially diluted solution in DMSO is added. The mixture is incubated at room temperature for 10 min. Then 20 l of detection mix 1.2 nM Firefly Luciferase Photinus pyralis luciferase Promega 29 M dehydroluciferin prepared according to Bitler McElroy 72 358 1957 122 M luciferin Promega 153 M ATP Sigma and 0.4 mM DTT Sigma in 50 mM TEA 2 mM MgCl 0.1 BSA fraction V 0.005 Brij pH 7.5 are added. The enzyme reaction is started by adding 20 l of substrate solution 1.25 mM guanosine 5 triphosphate Sigma in 50 mM TEA 2 mM MgCl 0.1 BSA fraction V 0.005 Brij pH 7.5 and measured continuously in a luminometer. The extent of the stimulation by the substance to be tested can be determined relative to the signal of the unstimulated reaction.

The activation of heme free guanylate cyclase is examined by addition of 25 M of 1H 1 2 4 oxadiazolo 4 3 a quinoxalin 1 one ODQ to the enzyme solution and subsequent incubation for 30 minutes and compared to the stimulation of the native enzyme.

A commercially available telemetry system from Data Sciences International DSI USA is employed for the measurements on conscious SH rats described below.

The system consists of 3 main components 1 implantable transmitters 2 receivers which are linked via a multiplexer to a 3 data acquisition computer. The telemetry system makes it possible to continuously record the blood pressure and heart rate of conscious animals in their usual habitat.

The investigations are carried out on adult female spontaneously hypertensive rats SH rats with a body weight of 200 g. After transmitter implantation the experimental animals are housed singly in type 3 Makrolon cages. They have free access to standard feed and water. The day night rhythm in the experimental laboratory is changed by the room lighting at 6.00 am and at 7.00 pm.

The telemetry transmitters TAM PA C40 DSI as employed are surgically implanted under aseptic conditions in the experimental animals at least 14 days before the first experimental use. The animals instrumented in this way can be employed repeatedly after the wound has healed and the implant has settled.

For the implantation the fasted animals are anesthetized with pentobarbital Nembutal Sanofi 50 mg kg i.p. and shaved and disinfected over a large area of their abdomens. After the abdominal cavity has been opened along the linea alba the liquid filled measuring catheter of the system is inserted into the descending aorta in the cranial direction above the bifurcation and fixed with tissue glue VetBonD 3M . The transmitter housing is fixed intraperitoneally to the abdominal wall muscle and layered closure of the wound is performed. An antibiotic Tardomyocel COMP Bayer 1 ml kg s.c. is administered postoperatively for prophylaxis of infection.

The substances to be investigated are administered orally by gavage in each case to a group of animals n 6 . The test substances are dissolved in suitable solvent mixtures or suspended in 0.5 strength Tylose appropriate for an administration volume of 5 ml kg of body weight. A solvent treated group of animals is employed as control.

The telemetry measuring unit is configured for 24 animals. Each experiment is recorded under an experiment number.

Each of the instrumented rats living in the system is assigned a separate receiving antenna 1010 Receiver DSI . The implanted transmitters can be activated externally by means of an incorporated magnetic switch and are switched to transmission in the run up to the experiment. The emitted signals can be detected online by a data acquisition system Dataquest A.R.T. for Windows DSI and be appropriately processed. The data are stored in each case in a file created for this purpose and bearing the experiment number.

In the standard procedure the following are measured for 10 second periods in each case 1 systolic blood pressure SBP 2 diastolic blood pressure DBP 3 mean arterial pressure MAP and 4 heart rate HR .

The acquisition of measured values is repeated under computer control at 5 minute intervals. The source data obtained as absolute value are corrected in the diagram with the currently measured barometric pressure and stored as individual data. Further technical details are given in the documentation from the manufacturing company DSI .

The test substances are administered at 9.00 am on the day of the experiment. Following the administration the parameters described above are measured over 24 hours. After the end of the experiment the acquired individual data are sorted using the analysis software Dataquest A.R.T. Analysis . The void value is assumed to be the time 2 hours before administration of the substance so that the selected data set includes the period from 7.00 am on the day of the experiment to 9.00 am on the following day.

The data are smoothed over a presettable time by determination of the average 15 minute average 30 minute average and transferred as a text file to a storage medium. The measured values presorted and compressed in this way are transferred into Excel templates and tabulated.

The compounds according to the invention can be converted into pharmaceutical preparations in the following ways 

100 mg of the compound according to the invention 50 mg of lactose monohydrate 50 mg of maize starch native 10 mg of polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP 25 from BASF Ludwigshafen Germany and 2 mg of magnesium stearate.

The mixture of compound according to the invention lactose and starch is granulated with a 5 strength solution m m of the PVP in water. The granules are dried and then mixed with the magnesium stearate for 5 minutes. This mixture is compressed in a conventional tablet press see above for format of the tablet . A guideline compressive force for the compression is 15 kN.

1000 mg of the compound according to the invention 1000 mg of ethanol 96 400 mg of Rhodigel xanthan gum from FMC Pennsylvania USA and 99 g of water.

10 ml of oral suspension correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The Rhodigel is suspended in ethanol and the compound according to the invention is added to the suspension. The water is added while stirring. The mixture is stirred for about 6 h until the swelling of the Rhodigel is complete.

500 mg of the compound according to the invention 2.5 g of polysorbate and 97 g of polyethylene glycol 400.20 g of oral solution correspond to a single dose of 100 mg of the compound according to the invention.

The compound according to the invention is suspended in the mixture of polyethylene glycol and polysorbate with stirring. The stirring process is continued until the compound according to the invention has completely dissolved.

The compound according to the invention is dissolved in a concentration below the saturation solubility in a physiologically tolerated solvent e.g. isotonic saline 5 glucose solution and or 30 PEG 400 solution . The solution is sterilized by filtration and used to fill sterile and pyrogen free injection containers.

