---

title: Behavior mapped influence analysis tool with coaching
abstract: An analysis tool guides the selection of an external agent who will interact with a selected organizational actor. The analysis tool helps to minimize mismatches in personality and behavior between the external agents and actors in the business. The analysis tool also coaches deal external agents on how to successfully interact with the selected organizational actor. As a result, there are fewer misunderstandings about project scope and requirements, there is better communication between individuals, and valuable deals are more frequently closed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08332257&OS=08332257&RS=08332257
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08332257
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100112
---
This application claims the priority benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 144 636 filed Jan. 14 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 184 210 filed Jun. 4 2009. This application is a Continuation in Part Application of application Ser. No. 12 478 546 filed Jun. 4 2009. Each of the applications noted above is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to analyzing and leveraging the influence and behavior of actors within an organization particularly as it relates to understanding preparing for and influencing an organization s decision selecting the most effective external agents to engage the actors and coaching those external agents in behaviors to which the actors will be open.

Modern organizations interact extensively with independent external agents. One example of such an external agent is a consulting company that assembles a deal team to work with the organization to propose plan and ideally win and implement a project. Regardless of the role that the external agents play there is typically extensive interaction between many external agents and many actors from the organization. The interaction continues throughout the lifetime of a deal as the external agent and the organization work all aspects of the deal toward a mutually agreeable conclusion.

In the past little guidance was available to help determine which deal team member or other external agent should interact with or build a relationship with specific actors in the organization and the best behavior that can help do that. Choosing the wrong external agent often led to an inability to effectively communicate with the right actors who influence other organizational actors in making decisions misunderstandings about project scope and requirements and ultimately failure to close and or complete delivery of valuable deals. Therefore a need exists to address the problems noted above and others previously experienced.

An analysis tool helps determine which external agent should interact with which actor in the organization and understand which actor influences which actor and in what way. The analysis tool helps to understand and leverage the influence relationships that exist in the organization and to use that understanding to minimize mismatches in behavior between the external agents and the organizational actors. As a result there are fewer misunderstandings about project scope and requirements there is better communication between individuals and valuable deals are more frequently closed and or brought to a mutually agreeable conclusion.

Other systems methods features and advantages will be or will become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following figures and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description be within the scope of the invention and be protected by the following claims.

The individuals identified in are examples of actors within an organization. The actors may assume virtually any role related to a specific deal such as approver recommender or influencer and may fill virtually any position in the organization from chief executive officer to part time project assistant. Symbols of various shapes sizes and designs may be used to distinguish between positions importance decision making authority or other characteristics of the roles of actors within the company.

The core influence mapping further shows how the actors in the organization influence one another. More specifically the core influence mapping includes actor influence specifiers selectively connecting the actors to show how one actor influence as another if at all. For example the arc shows that Jim directly influences Holly s decisions. also shows that John has two paths of influence to Holly first directly to Holly as shown by the arc and second and indirectly to Holly through Stephanie as shown by the arcs and . Actor influence specifiers of various shapes sizes and designs may be used to distinguish various levels or strengths of influence between actors in the organization.

Additionally directional indicators may be used to note if an influence is a positive negative or neutral influence. Negative influences may arise because as examples two people simply do not like each other because an organizational actor does not like the external agent or for other reasons. shows an example of a positive internal directional indicator and a negative internal directional indicator . The internal indicators illustrate positive negative or neutral influence between organizational actors. described below gives further examples as well as examples of another type of directional indicator an external directional indicator. The external directional indicator captures positive negative or neutral influence between organizational actors and an external agent e.g. Consulting Corp. or Dave Smith of Consulting Corp. or a competitor to the external agent. For example Claire may have a positive relationship with Consulting Corp making her a more attractive target to match with an external agent from Consulting Corp. for ultimately influencing Stephanie. The tool described below may take directional indicators into account when selecting a compatible external agent to interact with an organizational actor. It is noted that an external agent may not only refer to a company e.g. Consulting Corp. but also may refer to individuals e.g. specific employees of Consulting Corp. or other entities that may work with the organization.

The core influence mapping helps to identify the actors within an organization and understand how the actors influence one another. The core influence mapping may of course be adapted to map any selected organization and any selected actors within the selected organization. However the core influence mapping does not help determine which external agents should interact with the actors in the organization. Accordingly the behavior mapped influence analysis tool tool described in more detail below transforms the core influence mapping into a behavior influence mapping which does effectively assist with determining which external agents should interact with the organizational actors.

The behavior specifiers may indicate any predetermined selection of behavioral type. In one implementation the permissible behavioral types are those present in the behavior model . The behavior model includes an Analytic behavior which indicates fact driven and logical analysis Driver behavior which indicates a result oriented practical approach to problems Amiable behavior which indicates relationship oriented behavior and Expressive behavior which indicates a spontaneous and impulsive type of behavior. The permissible behavior types may thereby be determined according to and follow the Social Style Model representation of behavior in the suite of products and services available from the TRACOM Group company. However the behavior model may instead employ any other framework for identifying behavior. An example of a suitable framework is a behavioral analysis framework that aids people to better understand and work with others for example by identifying classifying or understanding decision making and control needs and identifying the behavior that people exhibit when interacting with others.

The arrangement of behaviors in the behavior model helps to reveal whether certain types of behaviors are suited to interacting with other types of behaviors. Often opposite behaviors are not good matches for interaction. Thus for example a person exhibiting analytic behavior tends to be a poor match for someone exhibiting expressive behavior. However individuals exhibiting the same behavior tend to be well matched and are preferential choices for building relationships. Finally individuals with adjacent behaviors are typically able to interact in a productive or otherwise successful manner. Thus for example a first person exhibiting amiable behavior is typically able to successfully interact with a second person exhibiting analytic or expressive behavior. However the determination to match people with adjacent behaviors may be a secondary or subordinate choice compared to matching people with the same behavior. Though there may be differences in behavior versatility described in detail below can sometimes overcome those differences. In other words versatile behavior diverse individuals can in many cases successfully work together.

The tool assists with the generation of the behavior influence mapping . To that end the tool may initial generate a user interface that initially displays a rendering of the core influence mapping . The tool may then accept operator input to tag any selected organizational actor with a behavior.

In the example shown in the operator has provided a selection input e.g. a mouse click voice command keystroke or other input specifying Jim as the selected actor to tag with behavior information. In response to the selection input the behavior influence mapping tool displays a behavior list . The tool populates the behavior list with the permissible behavior tags for the selected actor. The operator selects a permissible behavior tag for the selected actor from the behavior list . The list may be a drop down list radio button set text entry box or any other type of selection or data entry mechanism.

Continuing the example in response to operator behavior selections from the list the tool has tagged Jim with Amiable behavior by creating the behavior specifier . The behavior influence mapping tool also creates the behavior link to connect Jim with the behavior specifier . The behavior links may be implemented in many different ways such as a pointer from or to a record containing previously stored information e.g. identifier and influence specifiers about a selected actor to or from a record containing the behavior and versatility specifiers. As another example the behavior link may be formed by storing behavior specifiers in a database record containing the previously stored information about the selected actor.

Thus the mapping tracks multiple types of influences that the tool may analyze when determining a compatible external agent to select for interaction with an organizational actor. Suppose for example that Sally needs to be influenced because of her role as an Approver. Sally has a 1 external directional indicator toward the external agent and a 2 external directional indicator toward the external agent s competitor. Therefore it may be difficult to directly influence Sally in favor of Consulting Corp. However David has a 3 external directional indicator toward the external agent and a positive internal indicator toward Christy who in turn can strongly influence Sally. Therefore David may be a good choice for assignment to a specific compatible person from the external agent in an attempt to influence Sally through Christy in favor of the external agent.

In addition to determining a compatible external agent for any given organizational actor the tool may also analyze the behavior influence mapping including the external directional indicators to assist in determining which organizational actor to target for a match to a given external agent. For example the tool may first look for organizational actors to match who have the most positive external directional indicators or the least negative competitor external directional indicators. The tool may further search the behavior influence mapping to find who has positive internal relationship paths to an ultimate decision maker that needs to be influenced e.g. an organizational actor with an Approver role . Graph searching or other algorithms may perform this analysis with the organizational actors and their roles forming nodes in the graph and the internal directional indicators forming edges between nodes with elements of the graph weighted by the strength of internal or external directional indicators.

With regard to determining compatibility with an external agent the tool may increase or decrease compatibility in relation to increased or decreased external directional indicator strength for the external agent. The tool may further increase or decrease compatibility in relation to decreased or increased external directional indicator strength for the competitor. In other words the tool may give preference to matches to those organizational actors who view the external agent most favorably and or who view the competitor least favorably. However the tool may also match an external agent to an organizational actor who is not favorable toward the external agent. The tool may make such a match when it is important to focus on organizational actors who need to be persuaded in contrast to those who already value the organization actor or their offer.

The mapping program also defines in computer readable memory an electronic representation of the core influence mapping . In other words the mapping tool stores a representation of the core influence mapping in memory. The data for the representation stored in memory may include the actor identifiers the actor influence specifiers or other data that encodes entities or relationships in the core influence mapping . The mapping program generates on a user interface a rendering of the core influence mapping . As shown in the core influence mapping visualizes that actors within an organization influence one another according to the actor identifiers and the actor influence specifiers.

The mapping program transforms the core influence mapping into a behavior influence mapping by tagging actors with behaviors. In that regard the mapping program accepts a selection input specifying a selected actor among the organizational actors displays a behavior list of permissible behavior tags for the selected actor and accepts a behavior selection from the behavior list . The mapping program then creates an actor behavior specifier for the behavior selection in the core influence mapping . The mapping program creates a behavior link e.g. from the selected actor to the actor behavior specifier in the behavior influence mapping thereby transforming the core influence mapping into a behavior influence mapping .

The tool also helps to find suitable external agents to interact with actors within an organization. The tool may analyze the structure of the behavior model as part of a compatibility analysis to determine external agents who would be compatible with any given organizational actor. One implementation of the compatibility analysis operates under the following analysis rules 1 individuals exhibiting opposite behaviors e.g. AnalyticExpressive should be rejected as matches 2 individuals exhibiting the same behavior are preferred as highly compatible matches and 3 individuals with adjacent behaviors e.g. AmiableExpressive are compatible but less preferred than matches with the same behavior.

Examples of additional rules include 4 if an external agent has a negative internal directional indicator for influence toward an organizational actor then reject the external agent as a match regardless of behavior 5 if an external agent has a positive internal directional indicator for influence toward an organizational actor then increase the determined level of compatibility between the external agent and the organizational actor e.g. by increasing a compatibility score by a pre determined amount 6 increase the determined level of compatibility in relation to the strength of the external directional indicator for the external agent and 7 decrease the level of compatibility in relation to the strength of the external directional indicator for the competitor of the external agent.

In some implementations the tool considers versatility when determining which external agents are compatible with any selected organizational actor. Versatility may reflect ability or skillfulness in adapting to many different people in many different situations. Versatility is one indication that the external agent and the organizational actor may effectively build a relationship. Versatility may be measured by a versatility score or ranking such as a numerical or alphabetic ranking. The versatility score for an external agent may be generated by analysis and processing of questions e.g. behavioral analysis questions given to and answers given by selected individuals who were chosen to answer the questions about the external agent. When the organizational actor is not among the selected individuals the versatility score may not turn out to be absolutely correct with respect to the organizational actor but the versatility score nevertheless may serve as a starting point for understanding versatility with respect to the organizational actor and as a reasonable basis for making compatibility decisions based in part on versatility. As one specific example the versatility of an external agent may be scored in terms of how others see the eternal agent managing their tension level in the relationship on a four level scale from low versatility to high versatility. In one implementation the following factors may compose the versatility score Image 8 of total versatility score measuring how the individual dresses and how they carry themselves Presentation 9 of versatility score measuring how well an individual communicates and presents Competence 48 of versatility score measuring dependability perseverance and flexibility and Feedback 35 of versatility score measuring the ability to understand others rationally and emotionally.

Referring back to Holly is a Driver. Assume that a first available external agent Dan is an Analytic and that a second available external agent Darren is an Expressive. There is therefore already some level of compatibility between Holly and Dan and between Holly and Darren because their behaviors are adjacent in the behavior model . Assume also that Dan is versatile in terms of behavioral compatibility. The tool may take the versatility into consideration by increasing the assessed level of compatibility determined between Dan and Holly or by making Dan a more preferred match than Darren.

Sufficient versatility may also reveal that otherwise behavior diverse individuals could be compatible and build relationships. Assume that Doug is an available external agent who is Amiable opposite that of Holly. Ordinarily the tool would indicate that Doug and Holly should not be matched. However assume that Doug is versatile and that testing has determined a versatility score or level of 3. The versatility may make Doug a workable match. For example if Doug s versatility score exceeded a matching threshold e.g. level 3 versatility or above then the tool may recommend matching Doug and Holly but may further indicate that Doug is a less preferred match than Dan or Darren due to the fundamental opposing behavior of Doug and Holly.

The level of compatibility may be expressed in many different ways both abstract e.g. low medium high and concrete e.g. a numerical score . For example a scoring model may assign an external agent with a matching behavior a compatibility score of 20 and may assign an external agent with an adjacent behavior a compatibility score of 10. The scoring model may also reward external agent versatility by increasing the compatibility score according to the strength of that versatility e.g. level 1 increase 1 point level 2 increase 4 points level 3 increase 6 points level 4 increase 8 points .

The scoring model may also assign a base compatibility score of 0 zero to an external agent with opposing behavior to a selected organizational actor. The tool may increase the base compatibility score as a function of the external agent versatility score e.g. level 1 increase by 1 level 2 increase by 2 level 3 increase by 5 level 4 increase by 8 . Thus as the external agent exhibits greater versatility the tool may further increase the compatibility score. The tool may cap the resulting compatibility score below the other scores explained above to indicate that such a match is not preferred but might be attempted in the right situations e.g. no other external agent is available .

An agent search program executing in the tool may implement the compatibility analysis rules explained above. In particular shows logic that the agent search program may implement to identify compatible external agents to interact with a selected organizational actor. The agent search program searches an agent database to determine external agent identifiers that specify available external agents . The agent search program also searches the agent database to determine external agent behavior and versatility specifiers assigned to the available external agents . The agent database may be preconfigured to include the agent identifiers behaviors and versatility specifiers for any particular external agents or specific deal teams of external agents assembled to work with any particular organization.

The agent search program initiates a compatibility analysis of the actor behavior specifier for the selected actor with the external agent member behavior and versatility specifiers . In particular the agent search program determines whether any external agents have identical behavior compared with any selected actor in the organization. If so the agent search program identifies the external agent as a preferred compatible external agent . As explained above the agent search program may assign a compatibility score indicative of the level of compatibility found between the external agents and the selected actor.

Continuing the analysis the agent search program may also determine whether any external agents have behavior that is adjacent to the behavior of the selected actor. If so those external agents may be identified as secondarily compatible external agents . Furthermore if either the external agent has versatility then the agent search program may increase the level of compatibility found for the external agent and the selected actor .

It may also be the case that the external agent has opposing behavior to the selected actor. Opposing behavior may result in immediately rejecting the external agent as non compatible . However in some implementations of the tool when the external agent has versatility then the agent search program may identify the external agent as a compatible though possibly non preferred selection to interact with the selected actor .

Furthermore the agent search program may analyze external and internal influence directional indicators and apply them to the analysis of whether an external agent is compatible or which organizational actor to select to influence . For example the agent search program may apply the analysis rules 4 5 6 and 7 noted above. Accordingly even when an external agent has compatible behavior with respect to an organizational actor the agent search program may nevertheless reject the external agent as a compatible external agent when the direction of influence is negative or adverse between the external agent and the organizational actor. On the other hand the agent search program may further increase the level of determined compatibility when the direction of influence is positive. As another example the agent search program may attempt to match external agents to those organizational actors with the most positive external indicators the least negative competitor external indicators or any combination thereof.

The analysis described above is well suited for the behavior model . The behavior model may be further subdivided into more finely grained behaviors. For example each behavior may be subdivided into four subcategories of behavior determined by the underlying analysis factors gathered when the behavior analysis was performed. However any other behavior analysis on any other behavior model may be implemented and analyzed instead and may give rise to additional fewer or different behavior compatibility rules.

Once the agent search program has completed the analysis the agent search program may display a list e.g. a score ranked list of compatible external agents to interact with the selected actor . The compatibility scores assigned to the external agents may also be displayed with each compatible external agent. The agent search program may also display those external agents who were rejected as incompatible because of opposing behavior unavailability or for other reasons.

In addition the agent search program may retrieve and display coaching information . To that end the agent search program may search a coaching database as described in detail below to locate coaching information relevant to the selected organizational actor relevant to the compatible external agent behavior or both. The agent search program may display the coaching information on a user interface to provide helpful information about how to interact with individuals who have specific behaviors.

The actor database stores sets of records that define the actors within the organization being targeted by the deal team. The actor database may store an actor record for each actor including as examples the fields described below in Table 2.

The databases and may be implemented in many different ways and may include additional fewer or different fields depending upon the particular design of the tool the behavior model and the rules for determining compatible behaviors.

The processor executes the program instructions of the mapping program and the agent search program . The program instructions of the agent search program may implement the logic described with respect to . The agent search program may follow any desired scoring model such as the scoring model described above to determine compatibility scores for external agents. The agent search program may display compatible external agents and non compatible external agents on the user interface.

The program instructions of the mapping program implement the logic described above with respect to . The mapping program works to transform the core influence mapping representation in the memory into the behavior influence mapping representation . The core influence mapping representation includes actor identifiers and actor influence specifiers . The actor influence specifiers selectively connect the actor identifiers and encode influences between organizational actors identified by the actor identifiers . For example associating the actor influence specifier Holly with the actor identifier Jim connects Jim to Holly and connotes that Jim can influence Holly.

As described above with reference to the mapping program generates on a user interface a rendering of the core influence mapping . The core influence mapping visualizes that the organizational actors influence one another as encoded by the actor influence specifiers. The mapping program also accepts through the user interface a selection input specifying a selected actor from among the organizational actors. In response the mapping program displays a behavior list that enumerates permissible behavior tags for the selected actor. The operator chooses a behavior selection which the mapping program receives and processes.

The mapping program transforms the core influence mapping into the behavior influence mapping . More specifically the mapping program creates an actor behavior specifier for the behavior selection and creates a behavior link from the selected actor to the actor behavior specifier in the core influence mapping. The behavior influence mapping representation stores this information as well as actor identifiers and actor influence specifiers obtained for example from the original core influence mapping representation .

Furthermore the behavior influence mapping may include directional indicators for influence. For example the directional indicators may encode whether any one or more of the influence specifiers is positive or negative. The agent search program may take the directional indicators into consideration when determining compatible external agents as noted above in the discussion with respect to .

The tool may further provide coaching strategies tailored to the particular behaviors of compatible external agents and selected actors within an organization. The coaching strategies help to build a relationship that increases the understanding and influence on organizational decisions. To that end a coaching database stores coaching entries . The records that define the coaching entries may include a record number behavior type an entry type and coaching information. The entry type may distinguish between different types of coaching information such as a coaching tip e.g. a helpful text message that explains behavior characteristics of any selected organizational actor and a matching strategy e.g. specific advice for an external agent with a specific behavior for successfully interacting with an organizational actor with a specific behavior . Examples are given below. The coaching information in the coaching entries may point to or store text audio video or other information that describes or explains characteristics of individuals with certain behaviors that gives strategies for working with an individual with any particular behavior and any other desired guidance information for interacting with an individual who exhibits a particular behavior.

Table 3 shows an example of records in the coaching database that store coaching entries for Analytical behavior. The mapping program agent search program or another program e.g. a separate coaching program may search the coaching database to find retrieve and display appropriate coaching strategies. As one example the tip number coaches that when working with an organization actor with Analytical behavior the external agent should Answer questions with facts reasons and numbers that are accurate. As another example coaching entry number provides an example of a behavior matching strategy for working with an individual with Analytical behavior with respect to any particular external agent behavior. In other words given an Analytical selected actor the behavior matching strategy provides guidance for how an external agent with any type of behavior may best interact with the selected actor. As a specific example when an Amiable external agent is selected to work with an Analytical organizational actor the tool may retrieve the following matching strategy from the coaching database and display the matching strategy on a local or remote display device for the external agent to review An Amiable. You both like to take your time in decision making and want risks mitigated. Analyticals like to get down to business quicker than you and want more structured conversations. They also care less about what others think. Accordingly the tool may give guidance tailored to any specific external agent behavior for interacting with a selected actor with any type of behavior.

Table 4 shows an example of records in the coaching database that store coaching entries for Driver behavior.

Table 5 shows an example of records in the coaching database that store coaching entries for Expressive behavior.

Table 6 shows an example of records in the coaching database that store coaching entries for Amiable behavior.

The agent search program may automatically retrieve one or more of the coaching entries applicable to each external agent or selected actor. For example if the selected organizational actor has Driver behavior the agent search program may retrieve and display any desired number of coaching entries specific to individuals with Driver behavior. The coaching display window shows an example of how the tool may display coaching information. Accordingly the selected external agent receives specific input on how to successfully interact with the selected actor. Furthermore the agent search program may also search the coaching entries for an applicable behavior matching strategy and display the particular matching strategy corresponding to the external agent behavior. For example if the external agent behavior is Expressive and the organizational actor is a Driver the tool may retrieve and display You share risk taking decisiveness and speed with the Driving Style. You differ in that you are less structured and less numbers oriented. Do not use the story telling technique. 

The entries in the behavior coaching matrix may be stored as entries in the coaching database . Accordingly in addition to the examples given above in Tables 3 6 the coaching database may store additional or different entries as shown in or any other entries . The coaching database implements a source of valuable insight into behavior and may adapt over time to provide the most up to date guidance on how external agents should interact with organizational actors.

The behavior mapped influence analysis tool may be implemented in any combination of hardware and software. For example programs in software libraries may provide the functionality of the mapping program and the agent search program . Such software libraries may include dynamic link libraries DLLs or other application programming interfaces APIs . As another example the databases may be implemented as Microsoft Sharepoint repositories Structured Query Language based databases or in other forms. The programs may be stored on a computer readable medium such as a CDROM hard drive floppy disk flash memory or other computer readable medium. Programs instructions or other logic may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors. The programs may also be encoded in a tangible signal of any duration that bears the logic as the signal propagates from a source to a destination.

Furthermore it is noted that the tool carries out electronic transformation of data that may represent underlying physical objects. For example the mapping program by selectively creating actor behavior links and actor behavior specifiers effectively transforms physically prepared core influence mappings into behavior influence mappings. Part of the transformation includes adding behavior information to the core influence mapping and linking the behavior information to organizational actors.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

