---

title: Atomic layer deposition of metal sulfide thin films using non-halogenated precursors
abstract: A method for preparing a metal sulfide thin film using ALD and structures incorporating the metal sulfide thin film. The method includes providing an ALD reactor, a substrate, a first precursor comprising a metal and a second precursor comprising a sulfur compound. The first and the second precursors are reacted in the ALD precursor to form a metal sulfide thin film on the substrate. In a particular embodiment, the metal compound comprises Bis(N,N′-di-sec-butylacetamidinato)dicopper(I) and the sulfur compound comprises hydrogen sulfide (HS) to prepare a CuS film. The resulting metal sulfide thin film may be used in among other devices, photovoltaic devices, including interdigitated photovoltaic devices that may use relatively abundant materials for electrical energy production.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09040113&OS=09040113&RS=09040113
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09040113
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
This application is related to and claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 181 181 filed May 26 2009 and is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The United States Government claims certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the United States Government and the University of Chicago and or pursuant to DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

The present invention relates generally to the field of processes for making metal films and structures and articles of manufacture comprising such films. More particularly the invention relates to methods for growing conformal metal sulfide films on nanostructures using atomic layer deposition and the resulting structures that may be used in various applications including a photovoltaic device.

This section is intended to provide a background or context to the invention that is inter alia recited in the claims. Unless otherwise indicated herein what is described in this section is not prior art to the description and claims in this application and is not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

There is a need to provide clean safe and sustainable energy to supply the growing global demand for energy. In contrast to other renewable resources whose globally extractable power is each less than 5 TW the solar constant upon the earth s surface 120 000 TW will exceed worldwide energy demand into the foreseeable future. This abundant supply of sunlight and the environmental friendliness of solar energy make the efficient conversion of solar radiation into electricity a compelling economic and scientific goal.

Photovoltaic PV devices that covert solar energy to electricity have been in use for several decades. However widespread adoption of PV devices has been somewhat limited by their expense and inefficiency relative to other sources of energy. Advances in structures and materials are important to achieving widespread adoption of effective PV devices. The most desirable materials for use in PV applications are both inexpensive and abundant. In general however these materials have high impurity and defect concentrations both of which limit the diffusion length of charge carriers which is a critical performance parameter of PV devices. The reduced length over which charges may be extracted L effectively limits the useful thickness of the active layer as thicker layers will not increase device efficiency. For example the efficiency of silicon PV devices scale with semiconductor quality as the Lapproaches the active layer thickness required to collect 90 of incident photons L . Decoupling these two important parameters has recently been recognized in several PV fields including polymer and Si p n junctions. The initial experimental results in this direction are modest owing to the complexity of fabricating such sophisticated geometries.

Structural improvements in PV devices has opened the door to the use of new less expensive materials that often possess highly desirable characteristics. To this end there has been interest in using certain transition metal compounds including copper compounds among others. For example various attempts using CuS in PV devices have been made. The first thin film. PV devices comprised CdS CuS heterojunctions formed through the topotaxial exchange of Cd atoms on a CdS surface for Cu ions in solution. Interest in the technology waned in the late 1980s however in light of the instability of the heterojunction through which Cu ions are prone to diffuse. In its place the more costly ternary chalcogenide chalcopyrites CuMX M In Ga X S Se have been developed with power efficiencies now approaching 20 .

More recently it has been shown that it is feasible to form stable p n heterojuctions with CuS paired with an alternative n type semiconductor TiO. As cation exchange is not possible in these Cd free PVs alternative deposition methods for CuS are required. More specifically chalcocite CuS x 2 is favored for PV applications among a sizeable number of copper poor polymorphs CuS 2 x 1.75 as it offers the largest spectral coverage and most appropriate conductivity. In addition to traditional topotaxial growth previous routes to phase pure chalcocite include single source evaporation and reactive sputtering. Techniques using nanoparticle syntheses and aerosol assisted chemical vapor deposition AACVD a liquid precursor delivery technique akin to spray pyrolysis have also been attempted.

Atomic layer deposition ALD is one technique for producing thin conformal layers. The ALD of CuS has also been attempted by alternating exposure to Cu thd thd thd 2 2 6 6 tetramethyl 3 5 heptanedione and HS. However existing methods for formation of CuS ALD are not adequate. For example over the range of temperatures in which the deposition is self limiting the growth rate is slow not exceeding 0.4 cycle. Notably only the less desirable CuS covellite and or CuS digenite phases are obtained using this approach. Additionally thermal decomposition of the Cu thd precursor limits the ability to coat nanoporous supports desirable in advanced PV devices. CuClcan also be used but this requires excessively high temperatures and the HCl byproduct can result in etching of the films and the deposition equipment. Thus a substantially pure and highly desirable chalcocite phase has not been achieved with these precursors.

In a PV device the reduced length over which charges may be extracted L effectively limits the useful thickness of the active layer. The efficiency of PVs scale with semiconductor quality as the Lapproaches the active layer thickness required to collected 90 of incident photons L . Surmounting the incongruity between Land Lin inexpensive materials may be accomplished by decoupling light absorption and carrier extraction into orthogonal spatial dimensions. For example a PV device may be prepared where the planar junction is effectively folded to form a nanorod array. The interdigitation of not only the active layers but also two transparent conducting oxide TCO electrodes allow for radial charge collection in the PV device. The result is a PV device where the total device thickness may be tuned for sufficient light absorption independent of the active layer thickness which may be chosen to be equal to L. Thus the device allows for efficient charge collection throughout the optically dense PV device independent of the diffusion length i.e. quality or absorptivity of the material employed.

This invention comprises improved methods for preparing thin films of metal sulfide materials and resulting structures and articles of manufacture. The invention may be particularly applicable for producing thin films of metal sulfides e.g. copper sulfide CuS InS for use as the light absorbing layer in solar cells. The methods may also be used in forming mixed metal sulfides e.g. CuInS . These methods provide techniques for producing various metal sulfides in the form of thin conformal layers on nanoporous supports as applicable to preparing solar cells including interdigitated PV devices.

With regard to CuS a true gas phase chemical vapor deposition route to high quality chalcocite films has been elusive. Importantly a conformal not line of sight growth method compatible with nanoscale structuring is needed to diminish the discrepancy between the minority carrier diffusion length 20 240 nm and the thickness necessary 1 m for ample light harvesting in the near IR spectrum. Decoupling light absorption and carrier extraction into orthogonal spatial dimensions through use of high aspect ratio architectures may diminish this incongruity. An ALD process may be used to prepare for example a copper sulfide CuS film on a high aspect ratio substrate. Thus through ALD and or additional further processes a relatively efficient and low cost interdigitated PV device may be prepared.

Various ALD precursors may be used to prepare metal and mixed metal sulfide films on a substrate including an interdigitated PV device. For example a CuS film may be prepared by ALD using a non halogenated precursor that is sufficiently reactive at lower temperatures. In one embodiment Bis N N di sec butylacetamidinato dicopper I Cu DSB along with hydrogen sulfide HS precursors may be used to prepare a CuS film by ALD. Additionally a cyclopentadienyl indium InCp precursor and a HS precursor may be used to prepare a film of InSby ALD. InCp shares many of the same advantages as the Cu DSB namely lower deposition temperatures and an absence of problems associated with halogenated byproducts. Multiple metal precursors may be used to form ALD mixed Metal sulfide films. For example a copper indium sulfide CuInS film may be prepared by applying the CuS and the InSALD precursors. These improved methods for depositing metal sulfide layers on a substrate will facilitate the manufacturing of interdigitated photovoltaic devices. Additionally capitalizing on these advances in ALD and PV technology new avenues in selective contacts tandem PV and devices capable of water splitting all will become feasible.

In one embodiment a method for preparing a portion of an interdigitated photovoltaic device is provided. The method comprises providing an atomic layer deposition ALD reactor a high aspect ratio substrate a first precursor and a second precursor. The first precursor comprises at least one metal and the second precursor comprises a sulfur compound. The method further comprises exposing the high aspect ratio substrate to the first precursor for a first period and exposing the high aspect ratio substrate to the second precursor for a second period. The cycle of exposing the substrate to the first and the second precursors is repeated for a number of cycles until a metal sulfide film of a desired thickness is formed on the high aspect ratio substrate.

In another embodiment a method for preparing a CuS film on a substrate is provided. The method comprises providing an ALD reactor a substrate a first precursor and a second precursor. The first precursor comprises copper and the second precursor comprises HS. The method further comprises heating the substrate to a reaction temperature exposing the substrate to the first precursor for a first predetermined duration and exposing the substrate to the second precursor for a second predetermined duration. The exposure of the substrate to first precursor and the second precursor is repeated for a predetermined number of cycles to form a CuS film on the substrate.

In still another embodiment an interdigitated photovoltaic structure is provided. The structure comprises at least one transparent oxide conductor TCO electrode and an interfacial active layer coupled to the at least one TCO electrode. The interfacial active layer includes a first film coupled to a second film. The first film comprises a metal sulfide film. The at least one TCO electrode and the interfacial active layer are arranged to comprise a three dimensional nano scale structure configured for substantially radial charge collection in response to incident light.

These and other advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like elements have like numerals throughout the several drawings described below.

The atomic layer deposition ALD process permits preparation of custom films with desired characteristics with nanoscale precision. Various interdigitated structures may be formed to optimize solar collection and charge production. are schematics showing an exemplary configuration of an interdigitated PV device . The interdigitated PV device may comprise a device where the planar junction is effectively folded to form a nanorod array . The interdigitation may include not only interfacial active layers but also a first and a second transparent conducting oxide TCO electrode and . The depicted configuration permits radial charge collection in the interdigitated PV device . In the depicted embodiment the interfacial active layers comprise a first active layer and a second active layer coupled to the first active layer . As shown in the first TCO electrode may be coupled to the first active layer . The second TCO electrode not shown in for clarity may be coupled to the second active layer . Portions of the first TCO the interfacial active layers and the second TCO form the three dimensional nanorod array . The nanorod array may be configured with a predetermined aspect ratio of an array width to an array height . The predetermined aspect ratio may be configured to optimize charge collection. In various embodiments the nanorod array may have a high aspect ratio that is an aspect ratio greater than or about 100.

The interdigitated PV device may further include a base substrate . In various embodiments the base substrate may comprise metal glass fused silica or other appropriate material based on the application of the device. The interdigitated PV device may also include a template coupled to the second TCO electrode . In various embodiments the template may comprise anodic aluminum a glass capillary membrane or other suitable material to increase light harvesting efficiency without loss of charge extraction efficiency.

Additional layers above or below the metal sulfide film may further be included. These layers may be prepared using ALD other deposition techniques or otherwise incorporated into a multilayer structure comprising the metal sulfide film. Additional metal sulfide films may also be deposited within the multilayer structure. represent exemplary cross sectional schematics of multilayer PV device structures and respectively according to further embodiments of the present invention. The multilayer PV device structures and may be prepared using ALD as described herein. Further the multilayer PV structures and may prepared in a three dimensional nanorod array similar to the array depicted in . With reference to a multilayer PV structure is shown comprising a substrate a metal layer an interfacial active layer and a top TCO electrode . In various embodiments the interfacial active layer may comprise a p type layer and a n type layer in contact with the p type layer . In embodiments the p type layer comprises a metal sulfide or mixed metal sulfide for example CuS. The n type layer may comprise various emitter compositions and or layers used in PV devices for example TiO ZnO ZnS. Each of the active layers may be relative thin films for example in a particular embodiment each of the active layers may be about 100 nm. However other film thickness may be readily prepared. In various embodiments the substrate may comprise glass or other appropriate substrate material and the metal layer may comprise molybdenum. In a particular preferred embodiment the layers of the multilayer PV structure are arranged as shown in .

The architecture of the interdigitated PV as described above makes feasible the use of relatively inexpensive and abundant materials in the PV device. For example CuInSin a PV device may be replaced with CuS which is effective in view of the relaxed Lrequirements of the architecture. Through ALD nanoscale fabrication of PV devices using these generally less expensive materials may be accomplished. In the ALD process alternate exposures to reactive gas precursors may be separated by inert gas purging to deposit films of metal oxides sulfides nitrides or pure elements. The self limiting nature of the layer by layer growth technique makes ALD uniquely suited to high aspect ratio nanofabrication applications. Thus ALD permits preparation of conformal coatings of substrates with aspect ratios greater than or about 1 100 which may have application as PV devices components thereof including transparent conducting oxides TCOs and other devices.

These techniques further open the door to the use of additional relatively inexpensive and abundant materials in PV devices. For example iron oxide FeO hematite rust is also now an attractive material for use in a PV device given its abundance stability and environmental compatibility. Hematite s failure in previous photoelectrochemical systems has been attributed to its ultra short hole diffusion length 2 4 nm compared with its L 100 nm. Additional film materials including for example InS CuInSand CuZnSnS are also applicable to PV devices and other devices prepared using the ALD techniques described herein.

Copper compounds in particular are attractive compared to other common elements found in commercial PV devices i.e. silicon cadmium tellurium gallium arsenic indium owing to its relative abundance non toxicity and ease of purification. Chalcocite CuS is particularly appealing as an absorber layer n type layer in thin film photovoltaic devices due to its low cost and nearly ideal bandgap 1.2 eV . To exploit these beneficial characteristics a method of gas phase chemical vapor deposition of phase pure CuS by ALD has been developed. The self limiting surface reaction produced by alternating exposure to Bis N N di sec butylacetamidinato dicopper I Cu DSB and hydrogen sulfide HS affords conformal deposition of thin films at temperatures as low as 130 C. Characterization of film morphology crystallinity and optical properties shows the as deposited material to be well suited to applications in alternative approaches to PVs such as the high aspect ratio architectures described above.

Metal sulfide films were grown in a custom viscous flow ALD reactor similar in design to those that have been described previously in for example U.S. Patent Publication 2008 0286448 which contents are expressly incorporated herein. The ALD process comprises exposing a substrate to a sequence of various precursors for a sequence of predetermined periods of time. A cycle of alternating the various precursors which may optionally be interspersed with a purge gas is conducted forming a thin conformal film on the substrate. For example the substrate may be exposed to a first precursor for a predetermined period of time. A purge gas exposure which may be a substantially non reactive gas for example N may follow the exposure of the first precursor. The substrate may then be exposed to a second precursor and a purge gas sequence may again follow. The process may further include subsequent sequences of additional precursors if any optionally followed by a purge gas. The cycle of alternating precursors is repeated for n cycles until a desired film thickness is formed on the substrate.

The first ALD precursor may comprise a metal precursor such as a non halogenated metal precursor containing for example Cu Fe In Sn or Zn The second ALD precursor may comprise a second metal precursor to form a bi metallic film or another precursor such as a sulfur containing compound. Subsequent ALD precursors may comprise additional metal precursors or other precursors. In various embodiments the first ALD precursor may comprise a non halogenated metal precursor. In a particular embodiment the first ALD precursor may comprise a non halogenated copper precursor. In a preferred embodiment the copper precursor comprises bis N N di sec butylacetamidinato dicopper I Cu DSB . In various embodiments the second ALD precursor comprises a sulfur containing compound. In a particular embodiment the second ALD precursor comprises hydrogen sulfide HS . In embodiments where the first ALD precursor comprises Cu DSB and the second ALD precursor comprises HS a CuS film is formed on the substrate by repeating an alternating cycle of the first and the second precursors. More generally the ALD process comprises a cycle of MP P where MPis the first metal precursor and Pis the second precursor. The cycle may further comprise an interspersed purge gas which may be designated MP purge P purge.

In other embodiments the second ALD precursor may comprise a second metal precursor. In a particular embodiment the second metal precursor may comprise an indium metal precursor. In a preferred embodiment the second metal precursor may comprise cyclopentadienyl indium InCp where indium is in the 1 oxidation state. In various embodiments where the second ALD precursor comprises a metal precursor the third ALD precursor may comprise a sulfur containing precursor for example HS. In other embodiments the second metal precursor may be the third ALD precursor and the second and the fourth ALD precursors may comprise HS. Accordingly in various embodiments the ALD cycle may comprise MP MP Pand in another embodiment the cycle may comprise MP P MP P. A purge gas may be interspersed in the above defined ALD cycles between any and all of the various precursors. In a particular embodiment a CuInSfilm may be prepared where MPis selected as Cu DSB MPis selected as InCp and Pand Pcomprise HS. It should be noted that the order of MPand MPin the cycle may be exchanged. In other words the ALD cycle may alternatively comprise MP P MP P.

In still further embodiments the ALD cycle may comprise MP P MP P MP P. Again a purge gas may be interspersed in between any and all of the various precursors of the above cycle. In various embodiments MPmay comprise a non halogenated copper precursor and in a preferred embodiment the copper precursor comprises Cu DSB . The MPprecursor may comprise a second metal precursor and in particular embodiments a Zn compound precursor. The MPprecursor may comprise a third metal precursor and in particular embodiments a Sn compound precursor. P Pand Pmay comprise a sulfur compound such as HS. In a particular embodiment a CuZnSnSfilm may be prepared where MPis selected as Cu DSB MPcomprises a Zn compound MPcomprises a Sn compound and P Pand Pcomprise HS. Again the cycle order is not limited to MP MP MP. One of skill in the art will also appreciate that a cycle may include additional metal precursors MP and additional precursors P to obtain one or more films of desired characteristics.

Exposure of the substrate to the various precursors and the purge gas may be expressed as a timing sequence where each exposure comprises a predetermined exposure time. In the case of a cycle comprising MP purge P purge the ALD timing sequences can be expressed as t t t t where tis the exposure time for the first metal precursor tis the purge time following the first exposure tis the exposure time for the second precursor and tis the purge time following the exposure to the second precursor where the units for each exposure is in seconds. The properties of the resulting film may be configured by adjustably establishing the predetermined time for each sequence in the ALD cycle. The properties of the film may further be influenced by selectively adjusting for example the number of cycles the ALD process temperature and the substrate temperature.

The substrate exposed to the ALD process may comprise any of a number of substrates compatible with ALD and the various precursors used in the process. For example the substrate may comprise silicon fused silica other materials and combinations thereof. In various embodiments the substrate may comprise a high aspect ratio substrate e.g. an aspect ratio of greater than or about 1 100 . The high aspect ratio substrates have particular application in among other fields PV devices. Selection of the precursors and ALD process parameters as described in detail below may be selected to produce a conformal thin film on the high aspect ratio substrate. The resulting coated high aspect ratio substrate conveniently decouples the active layer thickness and the diffusion length of the charge carrier in a PV device. Accordingly a number of compositions hereto generally undesirable or less desirable for use in PV devices may now be effectively employed. These compositions may comprise relatively inexpensive and abundant materials and environmentally friendly materials.

In a particular embodiment a CuS film was formed on a substrate by ALD using alternating exposures of a first precursor of Cu Bu amd Strem 99 and a second precursor HS Sigma Alrich 99.5 . The CuS films were deposited on 1 2 cm Si 100 and 2 2 cm fused silica substrates. Prior to loading the substrates were ultrasonically cleaned in acetone and then isopropanol and blown dry using nitrogen. Prior to the CuS ALD the substrates were first coated with 2 nm ALD AlO. The Cu Bu amd first precursor vapor was delivered by 200 sccm nitrogen flow through a bubbler held at 110 C. while the HS second precursor was stepped down to 10 Torr through a regulator. Caution HS is a highly explosive and toxic gas. A nitrogen purge gas was used after the first and the second precursor exposures. Ultrahigh purity nitrogen carrier gas continuously passes through the flow tube at a mass flow rate of 300 sccm and a pressure of 1 Torr. The process may be carried out a relative low temperature for example about 130 C. in a particular embodiment. The timing sequence was 15 15 1 10.

To enable in situ measurements a QCM was installed in the ALD reactor in place of the substrates. The self limiting growth of CuS employing Cu Bu amd is demonstrated by in situ QCM at 130 C. With reference to the saturation kinetics of each half reaction show the hallmark of authentic ALD growth. A maximum growth rate of 0.94 cycle was measured assuming a density of 5.8 g cm corresponding to hexagonal chalcocite high chalcocite CuS . The CuS is the thermodynamically stable phase of chalcocite above 104 C. The absence of decomposition which leads to non self limiting CVD like growth at this temperature is not surprising given previous reports of copper I nitride ALD using the same precursor at this temperature in addition to extensive characterization of the precursor family.

Film morphology was assessed with a Hitachi S4700 scanning electron microscope SEM . X ray diffraction XRD measurements were acquired on a Rigaku Miniflex Plus diffractometer using Cu K radiation. UV vis IR reflection corrected absorption spectra were derived from measurements employing a Varian Cary 5000 with integrating sphere accessory DRA 2500 . The morphology of CuS via the ALD process was revealed by SEM analysis. Not to be limited by theory the images of films prepared on silicon illustrated in suggest that growth occurs via island coalescence with film closure occurring between 162 and 500 ALD cycles. The amount of material deposited during each cycle evolves over the first 300 cycles with the change in surface area a result further borne out qualitatively in QCM studies an average growth rate of 0.9 cycle may be estimated from cross sectional SEM analysis of a 500 cycle film which matches well the growth rate via QCM.

The phase purity and crystallographic orientation of the thin films were deduced from XRD. shows the pattern of the thickest 500 cycle film may be indexed to CuS JCPDS 26 1116 . Identical but lower intensity peaks or an absence of diffraction was observed for samples with fewer ALD cycles not shown suggesting instrument sensitivity limitations and or a mostly amorphous material. Reflection indexing of CuS grown under the ALD conditions described above reveals a high preferential orientation of the films. This preferential orientation of CuS was also reported for films grown by AACVD. However CuS is known to undergo a phase change to CuS monoclinic low chalcocite at temperatures below 104 C. in which the 002 CuS crystal plane transforms to the 204 plane of the CuS lattice. While the majority of expected CuS reflections are absent in the oriented thin films previous studies have demonstrated reflections consistent with CuS upon film detachment by sonication. However the highly adherent films produced by ALD using the present process prevented this verification.

The suitability of ALD formed CuS thin films for application in PV is further established by UV vis NIR spectroscopy. In contrast to XRD and electrical characterization the extent of copper deficiency in CuS may be probed for very thin films even prior to crystallite formation or island coalescence. The optical assignment of CuS single crystal polymorphs 2 x 1.75 is enabled by previous detailed spectroscopic studies. As depicted in the absorbance spectra of samples using the present process were found to correlate with the absorbance of these previously reported single crystal polymorphs. The similarities suggest that like single crystals CuS gown by ALD is prone to copper depletion under ambient conditions apparently in proportion to its surface area to volume ratio. Indirect 1.2 eV and direct 1.3 and 1.8 eV bandgaps for the 500 cycle sample were estimated from plots of hv and hv vs hv plots respectively not shown in agreement with literature values.

The chemical vapor deposition of chalcocite was realized by ALD. A maximum growth rate of 0.9 cycle at 130 C. was measured from both in situ QCM and cross sectional SEM analysis. XRD and optical spectroscopy confirm the phase purity of the preferentially orientation thin films. The growth of high quality and conformal CuS films make this process a promising route to nanostruetured photovoltaics.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. The features of the embodiments described herein may be combined in all possible combinations of methods apparatus modules and systems.

