---

title: Method and system for network assisted discovery of femto cells
abstract: Method and system for a femto serving switch system. A request for registering a wireless device with a femto cell environment is received. The wireless device is registered based on the request with respect to the femto cell environment. Information related to the femto cell environment and one or more applications is then obtained, based on which a femto discovery notification (FDN) is generated. Such generated FDN is then delivered to the wireless device to assist the wireless device to operate in the femto cell environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538399&OS=08538399&RS=08538399
owner: Cellco Partnership
number: 08538399
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101210
---
The present teaching relates to methods systems and programming for network detection and switching and systems incorporating the same.

With the advancement of telecommunication technologies information access via wireless means has become more and more ubiquitous whether indoor or outdoors. Installation of distributed cell towers as well as the ability of network operators to handle calls from users serviced by other operators have made wireless communication increasingly seamless. However situations still exist where users can not consistently have a quality connection. One of such situations is indoor cellular coverage. There may be a variety of reasons for poor reception in an indoor setting. For instance in a building residing in e.g. a densely populated region signals between a cellular device and a tower may encounter many obstacles along the signal transmission path. Although signals may reach the intended destination the strength of the signal may be so weakened that the received signal is not usable.

Efforts have been made to improve the quality of communication in such situations. For instance a wireless network extender a device often referred to as a femto cell is a solution adopted to enhance indoor cellular coverage in order to provide more reliable wireless service. Such a wireless network extender or femto cell works like a miniature cell tower in an indoor environment e.g. home or office . A femto cell usually is easy to install. For instance it can be simply plugged into an existing Internet connection. The wireless network extender then communicates with its home operator s network via Internet connections. In this manner a wireless device communicates with the femto cell which then channels the communication back and forth between the wireless device and the operator s network via the Internet connection. With this solution to a wireless device a femto cell is almost indistinguishable from a macro base station.

Traditionally to enable a wireless device to detect that it is being served by a femto cell the wireless device is configured so that it is capable of recognizing a femto cell when it enters into the coverage area of a femto cell. This can be done by configuring the wireless device with identifiers for femto cells that are in deployment so that whenever the device enters an area in which any of the configured identifiers is detected the device is aware that it is now in the coverage area of a femto cell. Such identifiers include radio frequency RF identifiers such as cell identifiers system and network identifiers PN offsets and other information conveyed in RF to determine femto deployment.

The traditional solution is depicted in . A network configuration includes a first network such as a cellular service network a second network such as the Internet an indoor environment one or more wireless devices e.g. device in motion and . Wireless devices are connected via the first network e.g. operated by network operator s . The first network includes a plurality of base stations e.g. and a femto serving switch and support systems which is responsible for handling femto cell operations. As can be seen the wireless device is configured to have identifiers designated to femto cells. In addition in the indoor environment there are femto cells FC and deployed both of which are capable of communicating with a home router connected to the second network or Internet .

In operation when wireless device is at a first position A it communicates e.g. with wireless device via the first network or cellular service network . Signals from wireless device are transmitted to a nearby base station e.g. and through the cellular service network the signals are routed to wireless device via e.g. a different base station . When wireless device travels from position A to position B it may enter into a femto cell coverage area e.g. the indoor environment . When the wireless device detects based on the configured identifiers for femto cells that it enters into a femto cell coverage area the subsequent communication may now be handled by a detected femto cell e.g. . In this mode of operation the wireless device communicates with the femto cell which communicates with the femto serving switch support systems via the home router and the Internet connection . The signal exchanges between wireless device and wireless device are now relayed via femto cells the femto serving switch support systems and the first network .

This conventional solution has some drawbacks. When the deployment of femto cells grows more and more identifiers need to be dedicated to femto cells. More and more identifiers need to be configured in a wireless device. In addition for a wireless device that has been configured with fewer identifiers there is no easy way to update the configuration of such an existing device. Furthermore the network operator currently has no means to provide a device with information related to specific femto cells associated with the device at any particular time. Therefore there is a need to provide a better solution to assist a wireless device to operate in a femto cell coverage and a cellular network coverage.

The teachings disclosed herein relate to methods and systems for network based femto discovery and notification. In one example a method implemented on a machine having at least one processor storage and a communication platform for a femto serving switch system receives a request for registering a wireless device within a femto cell environment and registers the wireless device with the femto cell environment. Then information is obtained that relates to the femto cell environment and or one or more applications that are supported by the femto cell environment. Based on the obtained information a femto discovery notification FDN is generated and delivered to the wireless device to assist the wireless device to operate in the femto cell environment.

In a different example a method implemented on a machine having at least one processor storage and a communication platform for a femto serving switch system receives from a femto support system a femto discovery notification FDN directed to a wireless device and analyzed the received FDN to identify a femto cell environment. Information relating to the femto cell environment is then obtained and used to modify the FDN to generate an updated FDN. The updated FDN is then delivered to the wireless device to assist the wireless device to switch between a wireless network and the femto cell environment.

In another example a method implemented on a machine having at least one processor storage and a communication platform for a femto support system receives a request for registering a wireless device with a femto cell environment and identifies a femto serving switch system associated with the femto cell environment. Information related to the femto cell environment is then obtained and the wireless device is registered with the femto cell environment. A femto discovery notification FDN is generated based on the obtained information and delivered to the femto serving switch system.

In yet another different example a method implemented on a machine having at least one processor storage and a communication platform for a wireless device which is capable of operating in a first and a second network environment receives a message from a femto serving switch system where the message includes a femto discovery notification FDN with information indicating that the device is presently operating under the coverage of the second network environment. The information in the FDN related to one or more applications capable of running on the wireless device under the coverage of the second network system is then analyzed to determine that the wireless device is no longer operating in the first network system. The status of the one or more applications on the wireless device is then modified in accordance with the information.

In a different example a femto serving switch system comprises a receiver configured for receiving a request for registering a wireless device within a femto cell environment a receiver configured for receiving a request for registering a wireless device within a femto cell environment a device registration unit configured for registering the wireless device with the femto cell environment a femto discovery notification FDN generator configured for obtaining information related to the femto cell environment and or one or more applications that are supported by the femto cell environment and generating an FDN based on the obtained information and a transmitter configured for delivering the FDN to the wireless device to assist the wireless device to operate in the femto cell environment.

In another different example a femto serving switch system includes a femto discovery notification FDN receiver configured for receiving from a femto support system an FDN directed to a wireless device an FDN analyzer configured for analyzing the received FDN to identify a femto cell environment one or more information retrieval units configured for obtaining information relating to the femto cell environment an FDN modifier configured for modifying the FDN based on the information obtained to generate an updated FDN and a transmitter configured for delivering to the wireless device the updated FDN to assist the wireless device to switch between a wireless network and the femto cell environment.

In a different example a femto support system comprises a network interface configured for receiving a request for registering a wireless device with a femto cell environment a femto switch identifier configured for identifying a femto serving switch system associated with the femto cell environment a femto cell identifier configured for obtaining information related to the femto cell environment a device registration unit configured for registering the wireless device with the femto cell environment a femto discovery notification FDN generator configured for generating an FDN based on the obtained information and a transmitter configured for delivering the FDN to the femto serving switch system.

In yet another different example a wireless device comprises a femto discovery notification FDN receiver configured for receiving a message from a femto serving switch system where the message includes an FDN with information indicating that the device is presently operating under the coverage of the second network environment an FDN analyzer configured for analyzing information in the FDN related to one or more applications capable of running on the wireless device under the coverage of the second network system and determining that the wireless device is no longer operating in the first network system and a device interface controller configured for modifying the status of the one or more applications on the wireless device in accordance with the information.

Other concepts relate to unique software for implementing the routing traffic over multiple alternative network interfaces. A software product in accord with this concept includes at least one machine readable medium and information carried by the medium. The information carried by the medium may be executable program code data regarding parameters in association with local policies such as the preferences in selecting a specific network when multiple networks are accessible priority of preferences etc.

In one example a machine readable and non transitory medium having information recorded thereon for a femto serving switch system where when the information is read by the machine causes the machine to receive a request for registering a wireless device within a femto cell environment register the wireless device with the femto cell environment obtain information related to the femto cell environment and or one or more applications that are supported by the femto cell environment generate a femto discovery notification FDN based on the obtained information and deliver the FDN to the wireless device to assist the wireless device to operate in the femto cell environment.

In a different example a machine readable and non transitory medium having information recorded thereon for a femto serving switch system where when the information is read by the machine causes the machine to receive from a femto support system a femto discovery notification FDN directed to a wireless device analyze the received FDN to identify a femto cell environment obtain information relating to the femto cell environment modify the FDN based on the information obtained to generate an updated FDN and deliver to the wireless device the updated FDN to assist the wireless device to switch between a wireless network and the femto cell environment.

In another example a machine readable and non transitory medium having information recorded thereon for a femto support system where when the information is read by the machine causes the machine to receive a request for registering a wireless device with a femto cell environment identify a femto serving switch system associated with the femto cell environment obtain information related to the femto cell environment register the wireless device with the femto cell environment generate a femto discovery notification FDN based on the obtained information and deliver the FDN to the femto serving switch system.

In yet another example a machine readable and non transitory medium having information recorded thereon for a wireless device where when the information is read by the machine causes the machine to receive a message from a femto serving switch system where the message includes a femto discovery notification FDN with information indicating that the device is presently operating under the coverage of the second network environment analyze information in the FDN related to one or more applications capable of running on the wireless device under the coverage of the second network system determine that the wireless device is no longer operating in the first network system and modifying the status of the one or more applications on the wireless device in accordance with the information.

Additional advantages and novel features will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon examination of the following and the accompanying drawings or may be learned by production or operation of the examples. The advantages of the present teachings may be realized and attained by practice or use of various aspects of the methodologies instrumentalities and combinations set forth in the detailed examples discussed below.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth by way of examples in order to provide a thorough understanding of the relevant teachings. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the present teachings may be practiced without such details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and or circuitry have been described at a relatively high level without detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present teachings.

The present teaching relates to a framework designed and implemented in a network environment and a mobile device to enhance the ability of the mobile device to operate in switched cellular service network and femto cell environment. More specifically the present teaching relates to methods systems and program products of a networked framework in which a mobile device s presence can be detected by femto cells and information may be sent to facilitate the mobile device to operate in both a cellular service network and a femto cell environment in a more dynamic and effective manner.

Femto cells can be deployed to serve as presence detectors or sensors. When the presence of a wireless device is detected by a femto cell which may indicate that the wireless device is entering an area with femto cell coverage the femto cell notifies a femto serving switch system or a femto support system via network connections e.g. a router in the locale where the femto cell is deployed . Upon receiving the notification the femto switching system may send a femto discovery notification FDN to the wireless device. The femto switching system may not send a femto discovery notification FDN to the wireless device if the purpose of the sensing femto cell is solely to detect the presence of the device without alerting the user. The FDN may include certain information such as information related to femto cells in the region or applications supported only in the femto cell environment of that particular locale. Upon receiving the FDN the wireless device may analyze the FDN in order to react accordingly by e.g. activating or waking up applications supported only in the particular femto cell environment the wireless device is entering changing the device interface to allow a user to interact with the newly activated applications registering neighboring femto cells or deactivating or hibernating applications that run only in a home operator s cellular network. When a wireless device leaves a femto cell environment and goes back to a cellular service network the wireless device may also perform various actions to adapt to the cellular service network environment.

The router is provided to facilitate a connection between a femto cell e.g. and the second network . The femto cells . . . may be deployed to enhance wireless services at locale . To facilitate the hand off between the first network and the femto cell environment some of the deployed femto cells may be configured to have the ability to detect the presence of a wireless device within the coverage of the femto cell environment. For instance when wireless device travels from position A to position B a femto cell e.g. may detect that the wireless device is now within the coverage range of the femto cell environment if the femto cell is configured to serve also as a presence detector.

The femto cells deployed in locale are connected to router which is also connected to the second network . Through this connection a femto cell can communicate with the femto serving switch system . For example when femto cell detects the presence of wireless device it informs the femto serving switch system via router and the second network . When the femto serving switch system is notified of the presence of wireless device within the coverage of the femto cell environment the femto serving switch system generates an FDN with relevant information and sends the FDN to the wireless device via a message in a form such as a short message service SMS . As the device is in the Femto cell coverage the SMS will travel through second network the router Femto cell and to the device .

Information included in the FDN may include a variety of information. For instance it may include a version indicator security information and information about a host femto cell and neighboring femto cells in the same vicinity and extensions if any that carry proprietary or enhanced information. The host femto cell may or may not be the femto cell that detects the presence of the wireless device. The neighboring femto cells may be identified based on a database of recorded femto cell identifiers as the ones that are deployed in the same locale. Such neighboring femto cell information may be used by the wireless device to detect in some implementations when it is leaving a femto cell environment. The security information includes security certificate digital signature security hash or other indication of means used to secure the content and identifying that a sender corresponds to the service provider beyond repudiation. Information related to the host femto cell may include a geographic position of the host femto cell e.g. the latitude and longitude the RF identifier of the host femto cell the services offered by the host femto cell and corresponding capabilities and or information about a macro base station and its position so that it can be contacted to assist the wireless device to position itself. Similar information for each of the neighboring femto cells may also be provided.

An FDN can be sent to a wireless device in different ways. In some implementation an FDN may be sent in the form of a short message service SMS enhanced messaging service EMS . In another implementation an FDN may be sent to a wireless device such as a data session always on smart phone via social networking updates such as twitter tweets facebook updates or instant messaging etc. In addition an FDN may be sent at different times. For example in some implementations an FDN may be sent to a wireless device as soon as the device registers with the femto network switch. Another possible timing is to periodically send e.g. via SMS EMS a broadcast about the femto. It is noted that an FDN is in general light weight so that its generation and transmission does not bog down the normal system operations. In addition it is understood that any known and future developed transmission modes means may be used to carry an FDN in order for it to be delivered to a wireless device destination.

In the exemplary implementation shown in an FDN to be transmitted to a wireless device is generated by the femto serving switch system . When a wireless device e.g. receives an FDN it may then behave in accordance with the information contained in the FDN. An FDN specific processing application deployed on the wireless device may analyze the information contained in the FDN and direct or control the wireless device to perform actions appropriate in a femto cell environment. For instance information in an FDN that describes the capabilities of each femto cell in the femto cell environment may be used to invoke or wake up certain applications that are only supported by some femto cells in the particular femto environment. Such applications may be put in a sleep mode when the wireless device is operating in a cellular service network and be awakened whenever the device enters into a femto environment having femto cells that support such applications.

In addition the FDN processing application may extract certain information from the FDN and pass on such information to some applications that are always on e.g. certain social networking type of applications. In some implementations an FDN processing application may include information that provides specific application programming interfaces APIs so that other applications running on the wireless device can obtain information contained in the FDN. In this way information contained in an FDN may be relayed in a network assisted manner to applications running on the wireless device. In some implementations an FDN processing application may expose an API for applications to subscribe to an FDN so that the wireless device can notify such subscribed application of any information contained in the FDN whenever it is received and or assimilated.

The FDN processing application residing on the wireless device may be designed to take actions based on the received FDN. For instance the FDN processing application may change the coverage icons to indicate that coverage is being provided by a femto cell environment. Such an action may also be performed by a different application based on relevant information received from the FDN processing application. The FDN processing application may also be designed to have the ability to interface with the radio processing and positioning aspects of the wireless device based on e.g. content contained in the FDN to for example handle radio handoffs between different femto cells. Details related to the FDN processing application will be provided in reference to and .

In those implementations when a wireless device e.g. enters into a femto cell environment and leaves the first network and is detected the wireless device may then behave in accordance with the information contained in the FDN provided to the wireless device in a network assisted manner. In this way the wireless device is directed in terms of how to behave based on information from a bigger context. In addition such an operation mode makes it scalable because it is no longer necessary to configure a wireless device with identifiers of all femto cells. This mode of operation also makes a wireless device more flexible in terms of adaptively offering services or applications in each locale in accordance with what the femto cells in that locale support.

In the exemplary implementation depicted in upon detecting a wireless device entering into a femto cell environment a presence detection femto cell e.g. notifies the femto serving switch system via router and the second network of the discovery of a wireless device in a particular femto cell environment . When the femto serving switch system receives such a notification it generates an FDN and sends the FDN to the wireless device having the FDN packed with information that is specific to the particular femto cell environment . depicts an exemplary system diagram of the femto serving switch system which includes a device registration unit for registering deregistering a wireless device with respect to a specific femto cell environment an FDN generator for generating an appropriate FDN and a message generator that packages the generated FDN in some carrier form and transmits it to the wireless device. The device registration deregistration unit may receive a notification via a transceiver connected to the Internet from a presence sensing femto cell positioned in a particular femto cell environment about detecting a wireless device in that femto environment. The identification of the detected wireless device the identifier of the presence sensing femto or the identifier of the underlying femto cell environment may be sent to the device registration deregistration unit for proper registration deregistration. The registration and or deregistration record with respect to different wireless devices may also be recorded in a database not shown .

To facilitate generation of an FDN the femto serving switch system also includes a local femto cell database which records configurations of different femto cell environments in the network. Information contained in such a database may include the identifiers of all femto cells versions of such femto cells identification of the type of each femto cell e.g. presence of detection femto cell or application support femto cell etc. their groupings i.e. which femto cells are grouped together to form one femto cell environment and relationships among femto cells such as neighboring relationships.

In generating an FDN the femto serving switch system may identify other relevant information to be included in the FDN. To facilitate that the femto serving switch system may include a number of components each of which may be responsible for gathering or generating relevant information. For instance a position update unit may be responsible for obtaining the geographical location of each femto cell to be included in the FDN. Such geographical location of a femto cell may be represented as its latitude and longitude obtained via e.g. a satellite communication unit through an antenna . The femto serving switch system may also include an application update unit which may be responsible for receiving information via transceiver connected to the Internet regarding applications to be offered by certain types of femto cells. Such information may be dynamic in the sense that e.g. applications supported may change and even if supported networked upgrades may be available.

The femto serving switch system may also include a neighbor update unit which may gather information related to the neighboring femto cells. For instance although the local femto cell database may store information about the configuration of femto cells e.g. who is nearby to whom and which ones form a group as a local femto cell environment etc. such configuration may change over time. For instance through a configuration unit an administrator or service operator may dynamically change the configuration. Different reasons exist for such changes. For example a femto cell might be decommissioned due to performance and replaced with a new femto cell which may be a different type or support different applications. In this case the configuration unit may communicate with the neighbor update unit about such changes. In addition to avoid sending failed femto cell information to a wireless device the neighbor update unit in this case may communicate with each femto cell designated as belonging to a group of femto cells for a particular locale via the femto cell communication unit to ensure that each such femto cell is working properly. If any of such femto cells is not functioning correctly the neighbor update unit may inform the FDN generator so that such failed femto cell and its relevant information will not be transmitted to a wireless device. When the FDN generator receives such information it may then adjust what is to be included in the FDN. For instance it may accordingly not include the femto cell in a list of neighboring femto cells. In addition the FDN generator may also act by not including any information related to applications supported by the failing femto cell from the FDN.

When the FDN generator receives information from different sources local femto cell database the position update unit the application update unit and the neighbor update unit an FDN is generated based on the received information. To deliver the FDN to a registered deregistered wireless device the FDN may be packaged in a particular form for the delivery. This may be achieved by the message generator which takes information to be included in an FDN as input from the FDN generator generates a carrier message in an appropriate form and transmits the message containing the FDN to a designated wireless device. It is noted that the message generator may be dynamically re configured based on the type of the wireless device not shown . That is depending on the receiving capability of a wireless device the message generator may adapt to a certain form of message based on which an FDN may be packaged and delivered. For instance different types of wireless devices may support different standards of communication so that FDNs sent to those different types of wireless devices are to be formatted in accordance with the respective standards each support and delivered in a form that can be properly received and decoded on the recipient wireless devices. Although not shown the femto serving switch system may include other components capable of performing additional functionalities some of which may not be related to the present teaching.

Upon receiving the request from a wireless device leaving a femto cell environment the femto serving switch system deregisters at the wireless device. Such deregistration may be carried out in a series of steps now shown such as obtaining the identifier and positional information of the wireless device and record in a log that the wireless device left a particular femto cell environment at a particular date and time. To facilitate the wireless device to re enter a cellular service network first network the femto serving switch system may also obtain at updated information about the cellular service network. To convey such information to the wireless device the femto serving switch system generates at an FDN and an appropriate carrier message at . Such information once sent at to the wireless device may help the wireless device to leave the femto cell environment and enter the cellular service network properly and smoothly.

In some implementations more than one femto cell may be configured to detect wireless devices. In some embodiments each of such femto cells may be capable of detecting both the presence and absence of a wireless device. In some embodiments each sensing femto cell may be designated to detect either the presence or the absence but not both of wireless devices. In this implementation different sensing femto cells may hand off tasks. For example once the presence of a wireless device is detected and the wireless device is subsequently registered with the femto cell environment the identity of the wireless device may be transmitted to another femto cell whose responsibility is to detect the absence or departure of the wireless device and assist with the deregistration of the wireless device once its absence is detected.

When either the presence or absence of a wireless device is detected determined at the sensing femto cell obtains at the identifier of the wireless device and or other relevant information and constructs at a notification message and sends at the notification to the femto serving switch system . In this manner the sensing femto cell s and the femto serving switch system work cooperatively to assist a wireless device to switch seamlessly between a cellular service network and a femto cell environment. With this configuration as a wireless device is now passively rather than actively switched between different environments in a network assisted manner the wireless device itself does not need to be configured with the identifiers of all femto cells and can operate in a more light weight manner. Because of that the overall system is more scalable. Due to the fact that in a network generated FDN dynamic information can be included and conveyed to a wireless device as to the applications or services offered in each locale the use experience can also be enhanced because each wireless devices can now be more adaptive based on information provided in an FDN in terms of services offered at each locale. Furthermore an upgrade to any femto supported application can be dynamically delivered to a wireless device via an FDN each time when such upgrade is released.

With such a configuration as shown in as information of all neighboring femto cells in a femto cell environment is delivered to a wireless device via an FDN it enables the wireless device to perform device based femto discovery within each femto cell environment it enters without having to configure the wireless device with information of femto cells from different femto cell environments. In addition whenever the configuration of each femto cell environment changes a wireless device does not need to be re configured to reflect the changes. With configuration it is also possible that an application within a wireless device may be able to relay information received via an FDN to other applications either existing today or developed in the future. The seamless switching of a wireless device between a cellular service network and a femto cell environment may also be applied to an inter operator scenario as device registrations involve authentication with the device s home network. The home network can detect a serving system dedicated to serving only devices camped on a femto cell environment and can use this information to send home operator specific messaging.

In a different implementation as shown in an FDN is generated by a femto support system and then sent to the femto serving switch system from where it is then sent to a wireless device. shows such a network configuration in which all other components are similarly configured except that a femto support system is deployed and it is connected to both the router via a second network and one or more femto serving switch systems one is shown as . In this configuration when a wireless device enters a femto cell environment a sensing femto cell e.g. senses the presence of the newly arriving wireless device and notifies the femto support system via the router and the second network of the detected presence of a wireless device. Upon receiving such a notification the femto support system registers the wireless device with a specific femto system appropriate for the location where the wireless device is detected and identifies a femto serving switch system appropriate to handle the hand off of the detected wireless device. The femto support system then generates an FDN based on information relevant to the identified femto serving switch system. Such generated FDN is then sent to the femto serving switch system .

Upon receiving an FDN together with an identifier for the wireless device the femto serving switch system may analyze and or modify the FDN before it sends the FDN to the wireless device. As discussed herein once the wireless device receives the FDN it will perform a series of operations to adapt itself to a femto cell environment . On the other hand when the wireless device is leaving the femto cell environment in some implementations the wireless device may itself detect it based on e.g. a list of neighboring femto cell information provided by the FDN when it enters the femto cell environment. In some implementations a sensing femto cell may sense that the wireless device is leaving a particular femto cell environment. In either case the fact that the wireless device is leaving a specific femto cell environment is reported to the femto support system via router and the second network which then deregisters the wireless device and generates an FDN for the purpose of switching the wireless device back to a cellular service network. This FDN is then sent to the femto serving switch system where appropriate modifications may be made to the FDN which is subsequently sent to the wireless device to complete the switching.

The device registration deregistration unit is responsible for registering and deregistering wireless devices with a certain femto cell environment. The registration or deregistration may be performed with respect to a specific femto cell environment that the detected wireless device is approaching. As discussed herein since in some implementations there may be multiple femto serving switch systems distributed in the first network the femto support system may also need to identify an appropriate femto serving switch system in the first network which is responsible for the femto cell environment that the detected wireless device is approaching . In system configuration the femto switch identifier may be responsible for identifying a particular femto serving switch system given the detected wireless device information received from the sensing femto cell e.g. its geographical position. The identification may be done with respect to a femto information database which may store all the femto serving switch systems distributed in the entire first network .

Based on the particular femto serving switch system identified by the femto switch identifier the femto cell identifier may also be invoked to identify based on information stored in the femto cell information database a specific host femto cell within a femto cell environment managed by the identified femto serving switch system . With such identified specific femto serving switch system and host femto cell the device registration deregistration unit registers deregisters the wireless device as needed. The registration information is then forwarded to the FDN generator and used to generate an FDN to be sent to the wireless device. In addition the identified specific femto serving switch system as well as the host femto cell located in the femto cell environment may also be sent to the FDN generator and used to generate an appropriate FDN. Furthermore the femto support system may also identify application update information via an application update unit so that information about applications supported by the host femto cell can be integrated in the FDN generated. The application update unit may gather dynamic relevant information via a network communication interface .

When the FDN is generated it is forwarded to the network interface unit which then transmits the FDN to the femto serving switch system identified. In some implementations the femto support system may also identify neighboring femto cells and information associated with such neighboring femto cells not shown . Examples of information related to neighboring femto cells includes position identifier application supported etc. Such information may also be included by the femto serving switch system once it receives the FDN by modifying the FDN before sending it to the wireless device. In some implementations this may be more appropriate because the femto serving switch system identified as responsible for the geographical region where the wireless device is detected may have more accurate and localized information than the femto support system which may not be local.

When the femto support system sends an FDN to the femto serving switch system it is received by the FDN receiver via e.g. a transceiver and an antenna . The received FDN is then analyzed by the FDN analyzer and the analysis result may determine whether and or how the FDN is to be modified. For example the FDN analyzer may examine information related to the host femto cell in the FDN and check with a local femto database to see whether e.g. the health condition of the specified host femto cell permits it to serve as a host femto cell. If not modification may be made to the FDN as to the host femto cell. In addition the received FDN may not include information associated with the neighboring femto cells e.g. the femto support system may not have updated information regarding neighboring femto cells of all host femto cells . In this case modification may need to be made to include such information in the FDN before it is sent to the wireless device. Furthermore while the femto support system may have general information as to a set of generic applications supported by all femto cells it may not have specific information as to what localized applications are supported in each specific femto cell environment e.g. such information may be stored in the femto serving switch system responsible for the specific femto cell environment . In this case each femto serving switch system once it receives an FDN from the femto support system may need to supplement information about any application that is supported in each specific femto cell environment.

To modify an FDN the FDN modifier takes the received FDN and the analysis result from the FDN analyzer as inputs and controls the modification of the FDN. For instance based on the analysis result from the FDN analyzer the FDN modifier may invoke different components to gather information that needs to be supplemented in the FDN. For instance the FDN modifier may request neighboring femto cell information from the neighbor update unit . It may also request the application update unit to provide most updated information as to the applications supported in the specific femto cell environment near where the wireless device is detected. Such gathered information is then used by the FDN modifier to generate a modified FDN. Such generated modified FDN is then forwarded to the message generator where a message of an appropriate type is generated by incorporating the modified FDN therein and sent to the wireless device via transceiver connected to the Internet.

The neighboring femto cell information stored in the neighboring cell database may also be used by the femto communication unit to determine whether the wireless device is still in contact with any of the femto cells in the neighborhood. This may enable the wireless device to detect on its own whether it is leaving a femto cell environment. If the FDN processing application can not find any of the femto cells specified in the neighboring cell database it may indicate that it is leaving the underlying femto cell environment. If so the femto communication unit may send a request to deregister itself from the femto cell environment. As discussed herein such a request once received and processed may cause the wireless device to receive another FDN from the network designated to assist the wireless device to enter the cellular service network.

The application information identified from the received FDN may also be used by the application controller so that it can accordingly determine which application s should be awakened. Similarly the device interface controller may also use such information to control how to update the device interface. For instance if a game application is offered by the host femto cell in the femto cell environment but not in a cellular service network once entering into the femto cell environment the application controller may wake up that application and the device interface controller may modify the device interface by placing a new icon representing the game application on the device display interface. As another example if a femto cell environment offers an application for some social group the application controller may also wake up that application and the device interface controller may then allocate a small piece of real estate on the device display for a chat room of the social group which may be dynamically displayed real time. Through this chat room the user of the wireless device who may be a member of the social group may then become active online with other members of the social group. Another different example is some commercial offer or advertisements available only locally in the vicinity of the femto cell environment. In this case applications related to the offers or advertisements are made active on the device by the application controller and the content of the offers advertisements are displayed on the device interface. The operations of such applications made it possible for the user of the device to interact with the application to e.g. take upon some offer or explore some advertisement or even make purchases through the application and the network connections.

The femto serving switch system or and sub components contained therein e.g. the FDN generator the device registration deregistration unit the femto support system and its sub components as well as the FDN processing application deployed in a wireless device may be realized based on hardware implementations. In some embodiments they may be realized by software or firmware programmed to achieve the functionality of routing traffic across different network interfaces as disclosed herein. They may also be realized based on a combination of hardware and software or firmware.

For digital wireless communications the mobile device also includes at least one digital transceiver XCVR . The mobile device is a multimode device capable of operations on various technology type networks such as the networks and . For example the mobile device may utilize one or more of 3GPP2 1XRTT and EVDO technologies 3GPP LTE GSM UMTS technologies or IEEE 802.11 WiFi WiMax etc. technologies. For that purpose the transceiver XCVR could be a multimode transceiver or the mobile device may include two or more transceivers e.g. transceivers and each of which supports a subset of the various technologies or modes. The concepts discussed herein encompass embodiments of the mobile device utilizing any digital transceivers that conform to current or future developed digital wireless communication standards.

The transceiver or provides two way wireless communication of information such as vocoded speech samples and or digital message information in a selected one of the technology modes. The transceiver or also sends and receives a variety of signaling messages in support of the various voice and data services provided via the mobile device and the communication network described earlier with regard to . Each transceiver or connects through RF send and receive amplifiers not separately shown to a set of antennae . In the example the transceiver or is configured for RF communication in accord with a digital wireless protocol such as the current 3GPP2 and 3GPP protocols. Transceiver or is capable of detecting different network types in any given service area via e.g. antenna . In some embodiments a mobile device implements the algorithms for switching between different network environments or separate neighboring base stations of the same network environment as described herein locally on the device based on the network assisted femto discovery. In this case the capabilities of switching between different network environments or separate neighboring base stations of the same network environment may be turned on whenever the mobile device is activated and does not need to download programs that perform the algorithms for performing network assisted discovery and switching between a cellular service network and a femto cell environment. In some embodiments a mobile device may be designed to dynamically download programs for switching between a cellular service network and a femto cell environment from a centralized location e.g. a server via the network. In this situation the network communications may also support downloading of programs designed to perform the algorithm for switching between different network environments as described herein and data and or updates thereof from a server.

The mobile device includes a display for displaying messages menus of different applications or the like call related information requested by the user e.g. calling party numbers etc. A keypad enables dialing digits for voice and or data calls as well as generating selection inputs for example as may be keyed in by the user based on a displayed menu or as a cursor control and selection of a highlighted item on a displayed screen. The display and keypad are the physical elements providing a textual or graphical user interface. In addition to normal telephone and data communication related input output these elements also may be used for display of menus and other information to the user and user input of selections if needed during a system selection operation or during a selection software download operation. Various combinations of the keypad display microphone and speaker may be used as the physical input and output elements of the GUI for multimedia e.g. audio and or video communications. Of course other user interface elements may also be used such as a stylus and touch sensitive display screen as in a PDA or a smart phone.

A microprocessor serves as a programmable controller for the wireless mobile device in that it controls all operations of the wireless mobile device in accordance with programming that it executes for all normal operations and for operations involved in selecting a preferred technology and selecting an available network of the appropriate technology type for mobile communications. In the example the wireless mobile device includes flash type program memory for storage of various software or firmware program routines and mobile configuration settings such as a mobile directory number MDN and or mobile identification number MIN etc. The wireless mobile device may also include a non volatile random access memory RAM for a working data processing memory. Of course other storage devices or configurations may be added to or substituted for those in the example. In a present implementation the flash type program memory may store firmware such as a boot routine device driver software an operating system call processing software and vocoder control software and any of a wide variety of other applications such as client browser software and short message service software. The memories and also store various data such as telephone numbers and server addresses downloaded data such as multimedia content and various data input by the user. Programming implemented to perform the algorithm for network assisted femto cell discovery as disclosed herein may be stored in the flash type program memory sometimes referred to as firmware and may be loaded into and executed by the microprocessor .

Hence aspects of the methods for switching between a cellular service network and a femto cell environment via network assisted means and information or parameters used in such operations as discussed herein may be embodied in programming. The executable programs from such programming may be stored in the storage of the mobile device such as RAM or as a flash memory module in the flash memory . The data stored with or separate from such programs for network assisted discovery and switching between a cellular service network and a femto cell environment may include various lists related to the parameters or conditions configured for network handoffs in accordance with the algorithm disclosed herein.

Program aspects of the technology may be thought of as products or articles of manufacture typically in the form of executable code and or associated data that is carried on or embodied in a type of machine readable medium. Storage type media include any or all of the non transitory tangible memory of the computers processors mobile stations or the like or associated modules thereof such as various semiconductor memories tape drives disk drives and the like which may provide non transitory storage at any time for the software programming. All or portions of the software may at times be communicated through the Internet or various other telecommunication networks. Such communications for example may enable loading of software from a computer or processor into the mobile station to add or update the functionality to that device. Thus another type of media that may bear the software elements includes optical electrical and electromagnetic waves such as used across physical interfaces between local devices through wired and optical landline networks and over various air links. The physical elements that carry such waves such as wired or wireless links optical links or the like also may be considered as media bearing the software. As used herein storage media relates to tangible non transitory media for storing programming and or data and unless restricted to such storage media terms such as computer or machine readable medium refer to any medium that participates in providing instructions to a processor for execution.

Hence a machine readable medium may take many forms including but not limited to a tangible storage medium a carrier wave medium or physical transmission medium. Non volatile storage media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as any of the storage devices in any computer s or the like such as may be used to implement the data aggregator the customer communication system etc. shown in the drawings. Volatile storage media include dynamic memory such as the main memory of such a computer platform. Tangible transmission media include coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise a bus within a computer system. Carrier wave transmission media can take the form of electric or electromagnetic signals or acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio frequency RF and infrared IR data communications. Common forms of computer readable media therefore include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM DVD or DVD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical storage medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave transporting data or instructions cables or links transporting such a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read programming code and or data. Many of these forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to a processor for execution.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the present teachings are amenable to a variety of modifications and or enhancements. For example although the broker implementation described above can be embodied in a hardware device it can also be implemented as a software only solution e.g. requiring installation on an existing server. In addition it can also be implemented as a firmware firmware software combination firmware hardware combination or hardware firmware software combination.

While the foregoing has described what are considered to be the best mode and or other examples it is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented in various forms and examples and that the teachings may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all applications modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the present teachings.

