---

title: Communications between networked cable services system devices
abstract: Communication methods between networked cable services system devices are provided. Two or more cable services system set-top boxes may be networked together in a house, business or other facility. Alternatively, two or more set-top boxes may be networked together where the two or more set-top boxes are located remotely from each other and are networked via a cable services system. A first set-top box may be designated and equipped as a proxy server for managing communications between networked set-top boxes and one or more other set-top boxes may be designated and equipped as client devices for communicating with other networked set-top boxes via the proxy server set-top box. One or more communication applications may be deployed on each of the networked set-top boxes for allowing user-to-user communications via the networked set-top boxes, as well as, user-to-set-top box communication via the networked set-top boxes. Communications between set-top boxes that may be enabled include, but are not limited to, text communications, voice communications, video communications, set-top box control communications, real time gaming, and the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08392943&OS=08392943&RS=08392943
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08392943
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100202
---
With the advent of digital cable systems homes businesses and other facilities often have multiple television sets systems and associated cable set top boxes for allowing a variety of content to be distributed to the set top boxes for presentation on the associated television sets systems. Some digital communication between networked set top boxes has been made possible. However such communication between set top boxes has been limited and a need exists to allow user to user communication via separate set top boxes as well as user to set top box communication via separate set top boxes.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing a plurality of communication methods between networked cable services system devices. According to an embodiment two or more cable services system set top boxes may be networked together in a home business or other facility. Alternatively two or more set top boxes may be networked together where the two or more set top boxes are located remotely from each other and are networked via a cable services system.

A first set top box may be designated and equipped as a proxy server for managing communications between networked set top boxes and one or more other set top boxes may be designated and equipped as client devices for communicating with other networked set top boxes via the proxy server set top box. One or more communication applications may be deployed on each of the networked set top boxes for allowing user to user real time communications via the networked set top boxes as well as user to set top box real time communications via the networked set top boxes. According to embodiments communications between set top boxes that may be enabled include but are not limited to text communications voice communications video communications set top box control communications real time gaming and the like.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and descriptions set out below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing a plurality of communication methods between networked cable services system devices. According to embodiments a cable services system as described below with respect to is leveraged to enable a communication channel among video devices for example cable services system set top boxes hereinafter set top box using a home business or other facility network. The communication may follow a client server model and may facilitate real time text voice video communications as well as the delivery of control messages between different set top boxes and associated video devices e.g. television sets networked together in a home business or other facility.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention but instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

As described herein cable services system set top boxes deployed in a home business or other facility may be networked together to allow a variety of different real time communications between networked set top boxes. According to embodiments networked set top boxes deployed in a home business or other facility may be deployed operated programmed and may receive content in association with a cable services system. is a simplified block diagram illustrating a cable services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that serves as an exemplary operating environment for embodiments of the present invention.

Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated XML is only one example of data formatting and data passed between the client side and the server side may be formatted according to any other suitable formatting language or standard.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to another embodiment bidirectional communication may be accomplished between the STB and the television . For example high definition multimedia interface HDMI ports on the STB and television allow for bidirectional data communications between the devices. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . The in band signaling space may operate at a variety of frequencies. According to one embodiment the in band signaling space may operate at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

According to one embodiment data passed between the CATV system backend components such as the head end and the CATV system front end components such as the STB may be passed according to the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS . As is well known to those skilled in the art DOCSIS provides for a mechanism for data transport over a cable system such as the CATV illustrated in . Among other things DOCSIS allows for the passing of digital communications and Internet connectivity over an HFC network .

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer profile data from services provider data services for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer. According to an embodiment of the present invention a customer profile may include communications applications provisioned on networked STBs as well as designations of individual STBs in a home business or facility e.g. kitchen STB bedroom STB office STB and the like .

As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. The customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . When the application server requires customer profile data from one or more of the data services for preparation or update of a customer profile the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

According to embodiments each of the plurality of set top boxes deployed in a given facility may be networked together via coaxial cable or other suitable cabling to allow data to be passed from one set top box to another set top box. Data may be passed between set top boxes according to any suitable communications protocol for allowing data to be passed between networked computing devices. According to one embodiment data may be passed between associated set top boxes according to the Multimedia Over Cable Alliance MOCA technology. As is known to those skilled in the art data may be passed over coaxial cable between CATV STBs in accordance with MoCA specifications to facilitate in facility networking between CATV devices e.g. STBs on existing coaxial cable in the 1 GHz microwave band using orthogonal frequency division multiplexing modulation. According to one embodiment data may be passed between STBs with throughput exceeding 100 Mbit s.

According to an embodiment a first set top box of a set of networked set top boxes illustrated in may be designated and equipped as a primary or proxy server for managing communications between networked set top boxes. Each of the other set top boxes in the set of networked set top boxes may be designated and equipped as client devices in the set of networked set top boxes. As should be appreciated the primary or proxy server STB may also be equipped to serve as a client device for communications with other STBs as described herein. Thus as will be described below for a given communications type the main or proxy server set top box may be loaded with a software application operative to manage communications between associated client set top boxes . For example as will be described below a real time text chatting application may be deployed onto the networked set top boxes for allowing users of each of the individual set top boxes to chat with each other via the networked devices. According to this example communications type the main or proxy server set top box may be programmed with a software application operative to manage communications between other networked set top boxes. For example a chat session between a user of set top box and set top box may be accomplished via client side text chatting applications loaded onto the set top boxes via a text chatting proxy application loaded onto the main or proxy server set top box . The operation of server client computing relationships for managing communications between client computing devices is well known.

According to an embodiment operation of the networked communications described herein may be deployed via subscription through the cable services system described above. For example if the owner manager or operator of the facility desires that a text chatting application be enabled on the plurality of set top boxes to allow text chatting communications between the set top boxes the owner manager or operator of the facility may contact the cable services provider and request deployment of the desired application. According to one embodiment the owner manager or operator of the facility may utilize a web services system for requesting deployment of the desired application. Alternatively subscription to the desired application may be requested through one of the set top boxes via a set top box based subscription service.

According to an embodiment the cable services provider may download the proxy server application for the desired communications application to a first or primary set top box and client side applications to the client set top boxes . As part of the ordering or subscription service each of the networked set top boxes may be identified to allow efficient communication between networked set top boxes. Alternatively after the appropriate communications software is deployed to the plurality of set top boxes as described herein a user of the networked set top boxes may customize the network for adding identifications of individual set top boxes communications security properties and the like. For example the set top box may be designated as the master bedroom set top box the set top box may be designated as the kitchen set top box the set top box may be designated as the living room set top box and the set top box may be designated as the kid s room set top box and the like.

In addition communications security properties may likewise be applied to one or more of the set top boxes contained in the networked system. For example an owner of the home may designate that the set top box may not send or receive communications from other networked set top boxes after 10 00 p.m. to prevent children using the set top box from communicating after a time designated by a parent or other guardian. As should be appreciated these are merely examples of the vast variety of designations and properties that may be applied to individual set top boxes in the set of networked set top boxes. According to an embodiment the identification designations and properties applied to each set top box in the networked system may be stored as part of a customer profile described above with respect to .

According to an alternative embodiment communications between set top boxes from one facility and set top boxes in a second facility may be accomplished via the cable services system described above with respect to . According to this embodiment when a communication is directed from a set top box in one facility to a set top box in a remote facility a communication from the first set top box may be accomplished via the in facility network in the first facility to the in facility network in the second facility through the cable services system . For example a communication from a set top box deployed in the first facility to a set top box deployed in the second facility may as described above first to a proxy server set top box then through the DOCSIS system out of the facility to the cable services system . The communication may then be passed from the cable services system via the DOCSIS system to a receiving proxy server deployed in the second facility . The communication may then be completed from the proxy server deployed in the second facility to the receiving client side set top box deployed in the second facility . Thus networked communications occurring within a facility may be extended out to other networked facilities via the cable services system described above with respect to . According to an alternative embodiment the sending proxy server and the receiving proxy server may be replaced with a proxy server positioned at the cable services system head end to facilitate communications between the two facilities .

As described above embodiments of the present invention allow for various types of communications sessions to be enabled between networked set top boxes in a given facility or between two or more facilities via a CATV system . Below are examples of communications that may be enabled between networked set top boxes. As should be understood the following communications types are not exhaustive of the communications that may be utilized.

Text Chatting According to this communications type a user may initiate a real time text chatting session with another user via networked STBs. A text chatting application may be loaded onto each STB. For the primary or proxy server STB a text chatting application and a proxy or communications management application will also be loaded to managing chatting sessions between STBs. That is the STB that serves as the home network server will be configured as a chat server and all the client devices STBs connected to it will be configured as chat clients. The proxy server STB will perform the duty of communication monitoring and routing and forwarding messages to the appropriate clients. As discussed above this communication type leverages the operating system of the CATV devices STBs in the home or facility network to implement the chat system utilizing the resources e.g. MoCA TCP IP DLNA OCAP etc. already running on the STBs. The use of the browser traditionally used by chat clients may be replaced by a light weight OCAP JAVA application. Users of this text chat functionality may use an IR keyboard or IR remote control unit to enter text during chat sessions. Chat functionality may be launched in the STB by the use of special key sequences e.g. 11 and may be disabled in a similar manner. Using this communication method users may share real time comments with the other users on the network for example two users watching the same sports event on different devices on the network may comment about the event.

Voice communication The same communication channel utilized for text chatting may be used to send pre recorded and real time voice communications to other users in the network. According to this embodiment a microphone may be built into or attached to the remote control unit or keyboard or other suitable device for communicating with the STB. Voice communications may be recorded and later sent or sent in real time to a networked STB via any suitable transport means such as infrared or Bluetooth link. This communication method may allow users to engage in real time voice communications via networked STBs wherein the networked STBs form an intercom for the associated home business or facility.

Video communication According to another embodiment each video cameras or web cameras may be functionally attached to each STB to allow the networked STBs to serve as a videoconferencing system over which video communications may be passed. An example use case for video communication includes child or baby monitoring via networked set top boxes wherein a parent or guardian may watch or monitor a child or baby via a camera functionally associated with a STB in the room of the child or baby. According to this embodiment each STB may be loaded with software and may be functionally associated with a camera for capturing and sending video. The proxy server STB may be programmed for facilitating video sessions between networked devices STBs .

Control messages According to another embodiment control messages may be sent from one networked STB to set use permissions and security properties on another networked STB. That is the same chat application and communication channel described above may be leveraged to send control messages to the client devices on the network. Some examples include setting parental controls real time denial of access to certain content etc.

Real time gaming According to yet another embodiment real time gaming may be performed between networked set top boxes. Each networked STB may be loaded with a desired video game and the STBs may be associated wireless or wired with one or more gaming controls e.g. handsets headsets etc. . Using the proxy server STB as a control device between networked STBs users of different STBs may play interactive real time games via data passed between networked devices. According to one embodiment a gaming application may be run by the proxy server STB and participating players may log into the gaming application via their individual STBs.

Upon receiving the designated code for launching a communications application the receiving set top box may launch a user interface as illustrated in for providing the user with one or more application selections and with one or more devices for directing the desired communications session. As should be appreciated the user interfaces illustrated in and the content illustrated in the user interfaces illustrated in is for purposes of example only and is not limiting of the vast numbers of different types of applications and content that may be displayed in the user interfaces according to embodiments of the present invention.

Referring still to upon initiation of a communications session the user interface may be displayed on the television set via the associated set top box. Referring to the user interface a listing of available communications applications for example text chat application voice chat application video chat application controls application games applications and the like may be displayed in the user interface to allow a requesting user to select one of the available communications applications for use in a desired communications session. In addition a device with which the requesting user wishes to communicate may be selected from the user interface . For example a user may wish to initiate a text chat from a set top box to a user currently watching television via set top box . Accordingly after the user causes a launch of the user interface as described above the user may select the desired application and a desired receiving set top box that is presently in use by the person with whom the requesting user would like to communicate.

After the requesting user selects the desired communications application and the desired receiving set top box the communications request is passed from the sending set top box to the proxy server set top box . The proxy server set top box in turn establishes a communications link between the requesting set top box and a desired receiving set top box . Referring still to at the receiving set top box a user interface may be presented to the receiving user and may be displayed on the receiving user s television set . For example the presently viewed content for example a television program may be partially overlaid with an incoming communications alert area to notify the receiving user that an incoming communication is being received from the sending set top box. For example a text display such as text chat incoming from kitchen television may be displayed in the alert area . An acceptance control may be displayed in the alert area for allowing the receiving user to accept or decline the incoming communications invitation. If the receiving user accepts the incoming communication invitation a communications session may be established by the proxy server set top box between the sending set top box and the receiving set top box via the in facility network as described herein. As should be appreciated the entirety of the display space of the sending and receiving television sets may be utilized for the ensuing communications session or a small portion of the display space may be utilized for the communications session allowing each user to simultaneously engage in the communications session and continue viewing the presently viewed content .

According to one embodiment each set top box in the set of networked set top boxes may be programmed with sufficient computer executable instructions and may include sufficient memory storage for providing the user interface content illustrated in and described above. Alternatively when a communication session is initiated from a client set top box a request for the communication session choices illustrated in the user interface may be passed to the proxy server set top box which may return the communication applications choices and available set top boxes to the requesting client set top box for display to the requesting user as described in the user interface .

Having described an exemplary operating environment in which embodiments of the present invention may be implemented illustrates an example process flow of communications between networked set top boxes. The routine begins at start block and proceeds to block where a set top box in a home business or other facility is provisioned as a proxy server for managing in facility communications between networked set top boxes as described herein. As mentioned above the set top box may be provisioned with one or more software applications for managing a variety of different communications types between set top boxes in the network of set top boxes. The provisioning of required functionality to the proxy server may be performed remotely from the cable services system or the set top box may be provisioned with appropriate functionality during an onsite maintenance visit from personnel of the cable services system to which the set top box is associated. At operation the set top boxes which will be functionally associated with the proxy server set top box are provisioned with client side communications applications for enabling communications between the networked set top boxes as described herein.

At operation if a user desires to initiate a communications session with another user of one of the other networked set top boxes the initiating user may launch a communication application at the initiating user s set top box television combination. For example the initiating user may wish to commence a text chat session with another user of a different set top box television combination. For example the initiating user may be presently viewing a very interesting television show or sporting event and the present user would like to engage in a text chat session with another user in a different room in the home. That is the initiating user may wish to comment on various aspects of the television programming being viewed by the initiating user. Or both users may be watching the same program for example an exciting sporting event and the users would like to chat about the action taking place in the sporting event as it is occurring.

At operation the initiating user utilizes his her remote control unit keyboard or any other suitable device for interacting with the initiating set top box to initiate a communication session. For example the user may type into the remote control unit or keyboard a pre designated code for launching a communications application such as 11. After the user enters the appropriate code for launching a communication application session a user interface such as the user interface illustrated in may be displayed on the user s television display screen to provide the user with a listing of available communication applications and with a listing of other set top boxes to which the user may send communications or with which the user may initiate a communications session.

At operation the initiating user may select a desired communication application for example a text chat application . After the user selects a desired communication application the user may then select a receiving device for designating the set top box that will receive the user s communication or with which the user will engage in a communications session. For example the initiating user may be utilizing a set top box located in the user s bedroom in the user s home. The initiating user may select a set top box located in the kitchen of the user s home where the user knows that the receiving user is presently watching television. As described above with reference to the initiating user may also select a receiving set top box located in a home business or facility remote from the initiating user s home business or facility for initiating and conducting a communications session with a user located at a remote location through the cable services system .

At operation in response to a selection of a desired communication application and a receiving set top box a message is passed from the initiating set top box for example set top box to the proxy server set top box . At operation the proxy server set top box in turn sends the message from the initiating set top box to the receiving set top box for example set top box . As should be appreciated a user of the proxy server set top box may initiate a communications session from the set top box which would serve as both the proxy server set top box and a client side set top box.

At operation an incoming communications user interface may be launched at the receiving set top box and may be displayed on the receiving user s television display screen as illustrated in . At operation a communication session invitation may be displayed in the alert area . For example an incoming message alert or invitation may be displayed in a portion of the receiving user s television display screen to alert the user that an incoming communication invitation has been received from the initiating user and for allowing the receiving user to accept or decline the communications session.

At operation if the receiving user accepts the communication then the communication between the initiating user and the receiving user may commence and last as long as the two parties wish to communicate. As described above the communications session between the users may include a variety of real time communications types such as text chatting voice chatting video conferencing gaming between the two users and the like. In addition as described above a communication between the initiating user and the receiving set top box may also include a one way communication wherein the initiating user manages the receiving set top box by passing controls such as parental viewing controls to the receiving set top box. At operation the communications session between the initiating user and the receiving set top box and receiving user if applicable ends. The routine ends at operation .

As described herein communications between networked cable services system devices are provided. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

