---

title: One-piece compressor and turbine containment system
abstract: A compressor shroud for containing fragments of a compressor impeller and a turbine wheel within a gas turbine engine. The compressor shroud includes a compressor containment section, a turbine containment section, and a containment continuity section. The containment continuity section connects the compressor containment section and the turbine containment section to form a one-piece part.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08511971&OS=08511971&RS=08511971
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Corporation
number: 08511971
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100723
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N00019 06 C 0081 Sub Contract No. 4500019224 awarded by the United States Navy.

The present invention relates to gas turbine engines. In particular the invention relates to containment systems for gas turbine engines.

Gas turbine engines employ two relatively large components that rotate at very high speeds. These are a compressor impeller and a turbine wheel. The compressor impeller compresses incoming air which is directed to a combustion chamber mixed with fuel and ignited. The turbine wheel is propelled by rapidly expanding gases resulting from the combustion of the fuel and the compressed incoming air. The compressor impeller is linked to and powered by the turbine wheel. Mechanical failure of either of these two components can result in considerable damage to the gas turbine engine. In some cases pieces of the failed component may contain enough kinetic energy to penetrate a gas turbine engine housing and cause considerable damage outside the gas turbine engine. Therefore it is frequently a requirement that the compressor impeller and the turbine wheel each have a containment device or system to prevent such flying fragments from escaping the engine.

Typically a compressor impeller or turbine wheel containment system is a metal band or a series of metal bands surrounding either the compressor impeller section or the turbine wheel section of the engine. Such containment systems add weight which reduces efficiency for gas turbine engines in transportation applications in general and is particularly problematic for applications aboard aircraft.

The present invention includes a compressor shroud for containing fragments of a compressor impeller and a turbine wheel within a gas turbine engine. The compressor shroud includes a compressor containment section a turbine containment section and a containment continuity section. The containment continuity section connects the compressor containment section and the turbine containment section to form a one piece part.

Conventional containment systems in gas turbine engines for a compressor impeller and a turbine wheel are separate additional components adding weight and complexity. In addition in conventional gas turbine engines portions of engine components such as a forward inlet bell mouth of a bearing capsule or a combustor assembly are positioned radially outward from the compressor impeller or the turbine wheel forcing compromises in manufacturing methods and material choices for these key components to enable them to not only perform their respective primary functions but to contain flying fragments as well. Finally conventional gas turbine engines have a flange connection between a compressor shroud and a combustor housing that is positioned radially outward from the compressor impeller or the turbine wheel. Such a flange connection is the weakest link in a conventional containment system.

The present invention solves these problems by extending the compressor shroud such that it is axially around both the compressor impeller and the turbine wheel. The extended compressor shroud is thickened as necessary to insure containment of flying fragments. The traditional separate containment systems for the compressor impeller and the turbine wheel are eliminated reducing weight and complexity. With the compressor shroud providing containment the forward inlet bell mouth and the combustor assembly no longer need to provide containment. This permits the use of manufacturing methods and materials better suited to their primary functions. Finally the extended one piece compressor shroud has no flange connection positioned radially outward from the compressor impeller and the turbine wheel improving reliability by removing the weakest link in a containment system.

The FIGURE illustrates a gas turbine engine incorporating the present invention. The FIGUREs show gas turbine engine includes bearing capsule rotor assembly combustor assembly compressor shroud diffuser and bolts . Bearing capsule includes forward inlet bell mouth and forward inlet flange . Combustor assembly includes combustor housing combustor chamber and combustor flange . Rotor assembly includes compressor impeller and turbine wheel . Compressor shroud is a single piece comprising compressor containment section turbine containment section containment continuity section bleed slots and bolt holes

Bearing capsule attaches to compressor impeller and to turbine wheel of rotor assembly along centerline axis C connecting compressor impeller to turbine wheel . Compressor shroud axially surrounds compressor impeller and turbine wheel of rotor assembly with compressor containment section axially surrounding compressor impeller turbine containment section axially surrounding turbine wheel and containment continuity section between compressor containment section and turbine section . A first flanged end of compressor shroud coextensive with an end of compressor impeller farthest from turbine wheel attaches to bearing capsule at forward inlet flange . Forward inlet flange is adjacent to bell mouth which contains forward inlet . A second flanged end of compressor shroud coextensive with an end of turbine wheel farthest from compressor impeller attaches to combustor assembly at combustor flange . Combustor flange is adjacent to combustor housing which contains combustion chamber . Compressor shroud also includes bleed slots in compressor containment section . Bleed slots provide compressed air for other aircraft systems and help regulate pressure around compressor impeller to prevent engine performance problems such as engine surge or blow out. In the present invention bleed slots are angled through compressor shroud at an angle away from a radial orientation with respect to centerline axis C such that there is no direct radial path from compressor impeller through bleed slots . Diffuser is attached to compressor shroud by bolts passing through bolt holes

In operation air enters forward inlet of bearing capsule at bell mouth and is compressed by the centrifugal action of compressor impeller . The compressed air is directed by compressor shroud through diffuser and into combustor housing where it mixes with fuel and is ignited to produce a flame in combustor chamber . Diffuser comprises a series of impediments to air flow such as angled vanes to slow the compressed air and increase its pressure thereby preventing the compressed air from blowing out the flame in combustion chamber . High temperature gases produced by the flame expand rapidly and propel turbine wheel . Turbine wheel through its attachment to bearing capsule drives compressor impeller and any additional systems attached to bearing capsule . Compressor shroud is an essential element of gas turbine directing compressed air from forward inlet through diffuser to combustion housing .

In the present invention compressor shroud also serves a second essential function by providing containment of flying fragments for both compressor impeller and turbine wheel by extending axially around both components as described above and illustrated in the FIGURE. In order to accomplish this second function compressor shroud is thicker than compressor shrouds that do not provide containment and is made of materials not normally used for compressor shrouds. Compressor shroud is not of uniform thickness but is thicker in some areas to provide sufficient containment. The thickness of containment shroud varies with proximity to a rotary component and expected incident angle of impact for flying fragments. For example compressor containment section is thicker to provide the necessary containment for compressor impeller turbine containment section is thicker to provide the necessary containment for turbine wheel but need not be as thick as compressor containment section . Containment continuity section is thinnest of all because it is much more angled to a likely impact from a flying fragment compared to compressor continuity section or turbine containment section . Containment continuity section has bolt holes to accommodate bolts for attaching diffuser to containment shroud . Also as mentioned above bleed slots are angled through compressor shroud such that there is no direct radial path from compressor impeller through bleed slots . This prevents flying fragments from compressor impeller from passing unimpeded through compressor shroud via bleed slots

Containment shroud is made of a material with mechanical properties desirable for containment such as high strength and stability at high temperatures to provide resistance to piercing as well as high elongation properties to provide high hoop tension. A suitable material is a nickel super alloy for example Inconel 625. Containment shroud is manufactured by a method that further enhances the desired mechanical properties such as forging. Other manufacturing methods such as casting do not achieve the necessary strength for a given material thickness requiring more material and greater weight to perform the same containment function. However casting is more suitable than forging in creating more intricate and complex parts such as bearing capsule with bell mouth . The complex shape of bell mouth is critical for aerodynamics. The present invention with the first flanged end of compressor shroud coextensive with an end of compressor impeller farthest from turbine wheel removes any containment requirement from bearing capsule permitting bearing capsule to be cast without requiring extra material in bearing capsule to provide a containment function.

As shown in the FIGURE combustor assembly also does not need to perform any containment function in the present invention. This permits a more efficient design with no need to accommodate or work around a separate containment band within combustor assembly . A combustor flange for a combustor assembly in a conventional gas turbine engine is located approximately between the gas turbine engine s compressor impeller and turbine wheel thus requiring at least a portion of the combustor assembly to provide containment for the turbine wheel. In the present invention combustor flange is not positioned axially around turbine wheel so there is no need for combustor assembly to provide containment.

As noted above conventional gas turbine engines have a combustor flange between a compressor shroud and a combustor housing that is positioned radially outward from either the compressor impeller or the turbine wheel. This flange typically represents the weakest link in a conventional containment system. The present invention with single piece compressor shroud providing containment for both compressor impeller and turbine wheel as described above has no flanges in the region radially outward from compressor impeller or turbine wheel . This feature eliminates the weakest link in a containment system.

Finally replacing three components a conventional compressor shroud a conventional compressor impeller containment system and a conventional turbine wheel containment system with one component compressor shroud provides significant benefits in simplifying and reducing costs associated with manufacturing assembling and controlling inventory. Attaching compressor shroud is no more difficult than attaching any conventional compressor shroud but the operations necessary to manufacture inventory deliver and attach the conventional compressor impeller containment system and the conventional turbine wheel containment system are completely eliminated. In addition moving from three components to one also provides an opportunity for weight savings which is important in transportation applications and critically important in aircraft applications.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

