---

title: Providing multiple configurable usage models for available services
abstract: Techniques are described for facilitating interactions between computing systems, such as in accordance with usage models that are configured for available services by the providers of the services. In some situations, the services are Web services, and an electronic Web service (“WS”) marketplace is provided via which third-party WS providers make their WSes available to third-party WS consumers who purchase access to those WSes via the electronic marketplace based on configured usage models selected by the consumers. Some or all of the one or more usage models configured for an available WS may each have associated use prices and/or non-price use conditions, and if so access to those WSes using those usage models may be provided only if a consumer requesting access provides appropriate payment and otherwise satisfies the specified use conditions for a selected usage model.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08005723&OS=08005723&RS=08005723
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08005723
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100628
---
This application is a divisional application of co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 454 622 filed Jun. 15 2006 and entitled Providing Configurable Usage Models For Available Services which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 454 622 is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 766 697 filed Jan. 27 2004 and entitled Providing A Marketplace For Web Services which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This application also claims the benefit of provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 60 782 739 filed Mar. 15 2006 and entitled Providing Configurable Usage Models For Available Services which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The following disclosure relates generally to facilitating use of computer implemented services in accordance with configurable usage models specified by the providers of those services.

Various mechanisms exist to allow computers and executing software applications to interact. For example remote procedure call RPC protocols have long existed that allow a program on one computer to cause a program on another computer to be executed and various object oriented architectures such as CORBA Common Object Request Broker Architecture and DCOM Distributed Component Object Model provide similar capabilities. In addition a variety of middleware programs have been implemented to connect separate applications often of distinct types and from unrelated sources to allow communication. For example various EDI Electronic Data Interchange networks exist that provide standard mechanisms to allow a computer system of one user of the network to send data to a computer system of another user of the network.

The widespread popularity of the World Wide Web Web has provided additional opportunities for computers to inter communicate. For example much current Web use involves users interactively requesting Web pages from Web servers e.g. via executing Web browser applications of the users and receiving the requested information in response. In addition to such interactive user specification of requested information there is also growing use of the Web to support the programmatic interaction of remote applications to exchange information via defined APIs application program interfaces referred to as Web services.

Web services allow heterogeneous applications and computers to interact and can be defined and implemented using a variety of underlying protocols and techniques. For example some Web service implementations return data in XML eXtensible Markup Language format using HTTP HyperText Transport Protocol in response to a Web service invocation request specified as a URI Uniform Resource Identifier such as a URL Uniform Resource Locator that includes a specified operation and one or more query parameters. In other implementations additional underlying protocols are used for various purposes such as SOAP Simple Object Access Protocol for standard message exchange WSDL Web Services Description Language for description of service invocations and UDDI Universal Description Discovery and Integration service for discovery of available services.

Although Web services allow various applications and computers to interact the current implementations and uses of Web services have various problems. For example current Web service implementations are typically designed with only a very limited number of predefined applications interacting and do not typically address a variety of issues for wide scale interaction of providers and potential consumers of Web services. In addition current Web service implementations do not typically provide effective means for potential consumers to discover or locate Web services that are desired or that may be of interest such as via current UDDI based implementations that may identify a connection point for one or more Web services but that do not typically provide any of a variety of other types of information related to the Web services to assist potential consumers e.g. indications of usage by others such as a ranking relative to other Web services indications of comments and or reviews by others information related to the past provision of the Web service and or the provider of the Web service such as average up time and response time etc. . Current Web service implementations also do not typically provide sufficient assurance to potential consumers that prospective providers of Web services will reliably and accurately provide desired Web services do not typically provide sufficient security for providers of Web services to ensure that their Web services will be made available only to authorized consumers and only in accordance with any conditions specified by the providers do not typically provide easy to use mechanisms to allow Web service providers to collect specified payment for the use of their Web services by consumers do not typically allow Web service providers to configure multiple usage models for their Web services do not typically allow Web service providers to manage and monitor the use of their Web services do not typically allow Web service consumers to monitor the use of provided Web services on their behalf etc.

Thus it would be beneficial to provide a solution that addresses these and other problems associated with the use of Web services and or that otherwise facilitates the interaction of computer systems and executing applications.

Techniques are described for facilitating interactions between computing systems such as by in some embodiments providing an electronic Web service WS marketplace via which third party WS providers make their WSes available to third party WS consumers who locate and purchase access to those WSes via the electronic marketplace. In at least some embodiments the electronic marketplace provides a variety of types of pricing models and other types of use conditions that service providers may configure for their services in order to control use of the services by others. For example a service provider may create one or more configured usage models for each service which consumers may then select in order to obtain access to the service in accordance with the selected usage model as discussed in greater detail below each such usage model may contain pricing information and various types of use conditions and restrictions in at least some embodiments. In addition in some embodiments a consumer of a first service may be a second service or an application program that provides functionality to end users such as functionality that includes access to the first service or other functionality that is based on such access. More generally in at least some embodiments at least some of the services that are provided may be remotely invocable services other than Web services the provided services may be made available in manners other than via an electronic marketplace and at least some of the described techniques may be automatically performed by a computer implemented facility.

In some embodiments an electronic WS marketplace WSM allows third party WS providers to register their WSes with the electronic marketplace so as to make those WSes available to some or all WSM users who are potential consumers of the WSes. In particular in some embodiments a WS provider may specify pricing information and or other WS use conditions at the time of registration of a WS for each of one or more usage models being configured for the WS. The WS providers also may specify the manner s in which their WSes are to be invoked e.g. by supplying an appropriate WSDL or related information for the WSes as well as various description information about their WSes that may be provided to potential consumers to assist them in their determination of whether to use the WS. Once WSes have been registered at the WSM they can be made available to potential WS consumers in various ways in accordance with any specified pricing and use condition information as discussed in greater detail below. In some embodiments a WS provider may also need to first register with the WSM as a user before registering their WSes e.g. to provide contact information information on how payments to the WS provider are to be made etc. .

As discussed in greater detail below various types of use prices may be specified for WS usage models by service providers such as based on predefined use price types provided by the WSM. For example types of use prices may in at least some embodiments include a price to be charged on a per use basis for each use a price for a subscription that is valid for a specified length of time and or number of uses tiered pricing to reflect different costs for different volumes of use multiple related prices to reflect specified criteria or conditions e.g. different prices for peak and off peak use or for different quality of service levels provided a promotional price available for a temporary time a discounted price to reflect use of a discount coupon provided by the provider of the WS and or the WSM etc. In addition to use prices various price related use conditions may similarly be specified by service providers for WS usage models in at least some embodiments such as to indicate to obtain one or more payments for a usage model in a specified currency and or using a specified type of payment mechanism e.g. a credit card charge a bank account debit a specified amount of pre paid points or other pre paid payment etc. to include one or more taxes e.g. relative to a location of a user who is subscribing to and or using the WS to obtain multiple payments over time in a specified manner e.g. to reflect a specified billing cycle or payment plan to aggregate multiple payments from a consumer in a specified manner before the consumer is charged the aggregated amount etc. More generally payment for use of a WS other service or other functionality may in at least some embodiments be made in any fashion that is accepted by a provider of the service functionality and or by another party facilitating the interaction e.g. the WSM . Payment mechanisms may include money credit or debit charges charges to another account or service of a user e.g. bill to a cellphone or landline phone account to a cable provider account etc. pre paid points e.g. from a pre paid card such as a renewable stored value card incentive or reward program points e.g. frequent flier miles etc. In some embodiments each WS provider can specify one or more usage models for each WS that they register and the WSM then sets one or more consumer access prices that are each based on one or more use prices of the specified usage models for the WS e.g. access prices that are each the same as one of the use prices or instead that include additional fees charged by the WSM or a reduction in fees provided by the WSM .

In addition as previously noted a consumer e.g. an application a service a Web site etc. and or an end user interacting with such a consumer may in some embodiments and situations pre pay for the use of one or more WSes or other services being provided whether by making payments that are specific to those one or more services or instead purchasing pre paid points available for use with multiple such services . Such prepayment may be initiated or triggered in various ways such as in conjunction with one or more selected usage models for those one or more WSes or other services. For example pre payment may be triggered by a usage model that specifies a one time pre payment or an ongoing pre payment e.g. a monthly subscription fee that is charged at the beginning of each month of corresponding use or instead a particular pre payment may be initiated by the consumer or end user. Furthermore a consumer and or end user may in some embodiments further approve or otherwise specify that at least some payments be provided multiple times e.g. periodically such as each month or based on actual usage such as to obtain pre payment for additional use when previous pre paid use has been fully utilized or is sufficiently close to being fully utilized such as in conjunction with one or more such subscriptions and optionally to specify that a payment be applied to one or more services in a configured amount ratio or other manner. The obtaining of such pre payments may also occur in various ways in various embodiments and situations including in a fully automatic manner or instead based on confirmation by the consumer and or end user whether explicit confirmation or by failure to select an optional denial of such confirmation . As one example a consumer and or end user may reserve a particular type of use e.g. an amount of time for one or more services such as at a particular time or during a range of possible times and pre payment for the reserved use may be automatically obtained prior to or simultaneously with the actual use.

Various non price related restrictions and other use conditions may similarly be specified by service providers for WS usage models in at least some embodiments. For example such use conditions may include restrictions on types of consumers allowed to use a WS restrictions on types of uses allowed for a WS and or for any information provided by its use restrictions on how frequently a WS can be used by a particular consumer or by all consumers restrictions on the number of authorized users for each subscription or other type of multi use access indications of information to be provided to and or obtained from a consumer e.g. terms of service to be displayed or otherwise provided to the consumer and an indication of acceptance by the consumer of the terms restrictions on a length of time or specific times at which the usage model is available or valid restrictions on devices that can be used to access a WS e.g. restrictions on numbers and or types of access devices such as to charge more for devices that have multiple CPUs etc. In some embodiments a WS provider may also configure that multiple WSes be made available together as a bundled group e.g. multiple WSes from the WS provider that are available as a bundle for a limited time or according to specified criteria . For example a WS provider may indicate that a usage model from each WS be used together or instead create a single new usage model that corresponds to the multiple WSes. In other embodiments the WSM may in some situations bundle together multiple WSes e.g. WSes from multiple unrelated providers . In addition while multiple usage models that are specified for a single WS will all be distinct in at least some aspects in at least some embodiments the provider of the single WS may specify a subset of usage model information that is shared across some of the multiple usage models for a single WS or across multiple usage models for multiple WSes from the provider such as one or more shared use conditions and or one or more shared use prices. Similarly in some embodiments at least some use conditions may be specified for all usage models for a WS such as restrictions on locations of users of the WS e.g. to prevent use from specified countries or states such as to reflect legal restrictions restrictions on total volume and or use of a WS e.g. a maximum number of invocations per indicated time period for each consumer and or for all consumers etc.

In some embodiments WS providers may also specify private usage models for WSes that are each available for selection only to a subset of consumers. Moreover the existence of such private usage models may in some such embodiments be identified only to the subset of consumers for each of the private usage models and to the WS provider who configures the private usage model such as in accordance with corresponding specification of access information for the private usage model by the WS provider. The consumers to whom a private usage model for a WS is available may be determined in various manners based on the configuration of the private usage model by the provider of the WS. Such consumers may include those that have some related pre existing business relationship with the WS provider e.g. having accepted a specified contract and or agreed to specified terms and conditions consumers that belong to an indicated organization or group or have another indicated affiliation consumers of other WSes of the provider new users of the provider s WSes consumers that satisfy one or more other criteria indicated by the WS provider e.g. consumers that have an indicated assessed level of trustworthiness or other reputational aspect etc. Such private usage models may further support various types of functionality of interest. For instance consumer interest in a usage model may be tested for a WS relative to one or more other usage models of the WS by making the usage model available to only a subset of consumers e.g. half and using the other consumers and other usage models as a control group. As another example a new WS may be tested by making it available to only certain test users e.g. beta test users such as for a limited time.

After a potential WS consumer has identified a registered WS of interest the potential WS consumer can interact with the WSM to obtain access to that WS such as by providing one or more access fee payments based on one or more access prices if any for a selected usage model of the WS and by satisfying any other specified use conditions for the selected usage model of the WS. Moreover in some embodiments the access fee payment s may be obtained from the consumer by the WSM in a manner to reflect specified conditions of the selected usage model as discussed in greater detail elsewhere such as to aggregate multiple payments from the consumer in a specified manner to obtain the payment s in a specified currency and or using a specified type of payment mechanism to include one or more taxes to obtain multiple payments over time in a specified manner etc. In addition in some embodiments a WS consumer may need to first register with the WSM as a user before obtaining access to registered WSes e.g. to provide contact information payment source information formatting and protocol preferences for WS invocation response information etc. .

When a consumer s access to a WS is authorized by the WSM but not provided immediately e.g. by purchasing a subscription such as based on a selected usage model the consumer will in some embodiments receive authorization information for use with later requests for the authorized access e.g. a unique subscription ID for a purchased subscription or a transaction ID for later occurring non subscription transactions . If so the later requests from the consumer to provide the authorized access may include providing at least some of the previously received authorization information and may further be supplied or specified in a manner indicated to the consumer at the time of original access authorization. As previously noted in some embodiments some or all consumers obtain access to registered WSes by purchasing multi use subscriptions to those WSes in accordance with corresponding selected usage models of those WSes. In other embodiments one time subscription or limited non subscription uses of a WS may be provided by selected usage models for a variety of reasons such as to allow an evaluation or test use of a WS in order to determine whether to purchase additional uses for use of registered WSes that are free to allow anonymous access without a defined subscription etc. In addition in some embodiments ongoing subscriptions may be purchased that have associated ongoing payments over time. Different prices and other use conditions may be associated with various distinct types of subscriptions e.g. non commercial use subscriptions educational subscriptions governmental subscriptions commercial use subscriptions subscriptions for organizations or other groups of multiple related users that may restrict a number of concurrent or total users that may use the subscription etc. .

After receiving an access request from a consumer for current use of a registered WS the WSM determines whether the use of the WS by the consumer is authorized such as based on any authorization information supplied with the request. In addition in some embodiments the WSM may further determine at the time of requested WS use whether any payment obligations and specified use conditions are currently satisfied for an invocation of the WS. If the WSM determines that the WS use is authorized the WSM facilitates consumer access to the requested WS by the consumer such as by in some embodiments interacting with the provider of the WS to invoke the WS on behalf of the consumer obtain any response information and then provide some or all of the response information to the consumer. Alternatively the WSM may in some embodiments facilitate a consumer s access to a WS by providing information to the consumer to allow the consumer to invoke the WS from the provider of the WS such as in accordance with a particular usage model of the WS or other configuration specified by the provider related to how access to the WS will occur.

In some embodiments the WSM performs additional formatting of the response information before providing it to the consumer. The information formatting can be performed in various ways and for various purposes such as to act as a translator adapter that accommodates previously specified preferences of the WS consumer e.g. information format and or protocol preferences requested from the WS consumer when they previously registered with the WSM to combine the response information with other information e.g. response information from other invoked WSes and to obfuscate information related to the invocation of the WS e.g. the specific invocation request information about the WS provider information about the time of invocation of the WS etc. .

In addition in some embodiments the WSM may maintain one or more caches or other storage mechanisms to store response information from WS invocations and if so may in some situations provide such stored response information to consumers rather than invoking the WSes to obtain additional response information e.g. when the stored data was recently received and is of a type that is not time sensitive and or subject to rapid change . Such response information may in some embodiments include not only information provided by the WS as the product of the invocation but also status or other response messages e.g. for a WS that does not otherwise provide information in response to its invocation or instead an indication that the WS does not provide any response. Such caching may provide benefits to both WS consumers e.g. by providing response information even if a WS provider is not currently available by providing response information more rapidly than if the WS was dynamically invoked etc. and to WS providers e.g. by providing to WS consumers a service invocation volume higher than the WS provider can actually handle by providing service to WS consumers even if the WS provider has temporarily throttled some or all requests to its WS etc. . Consumers may in such embodiments be charged the full price specified in the selected usage model for the stored response information a discounted price that is predetermined e.g. based on factors such as the consumer s particular usage model or usage pattern a full or discounted price that is dynamically determined by the WSM e.g. based on current factors or no charge at all.

As previously noted potential WS consumers may identify WSes of interest in a variety of ways. In some embodiments the WSM allows potential WS consumers to search the registered WSes in various ways such as based on the type of service and or type of data provided on the use price and or use conditions e.g. based on usage models available to that consumer on the WS provider on the WS description on the amount or type of documentation available regarding using the WS etc. In addition in some embodiments the registered WSes may be categorized into groups of related WSes e.g. in a hierarchical manner with one or more levels of sub categories and if so potential WS consumers may be able to browse within specified categories and sub categories and or may be able to limit their search to specified categories and sub categories. Moreover a variety of types of WS related information may be provided to potential WS consumers such as by providing lists or other indications of top ranked and or top rated WSes indications of recommended WSes e.g. personalized to the current potential WS consumer based on information known about that consumer etc.

In addition after identifying one or more WSes of potential interest a potential WS consumer may be able to review additional information about each WS such as by receiving a Web page specific to a WS that includes description information for the WS and that optionally includes various other information about the WS e.g. pricing information such as based on usage model s available to the consumer information about the WS provider etc. . In some embodiments such WS specific information may also include a variety of other types of information including reviews of the WS by other WS consumers that have used the WS and or summaries of such reviews indications of rankings and or ratings of the WS relative to other WSes based on various criteria e.g. number of uses a recent trend in use consumer specified ratings etc. indications of similar WSes e.g. based on category and or otherwise related WSes e.g. other WSes by the same WS provider other WSes that have been used by other WS consumers that have previously used this WS WS bundles that include this WS etc. .

In some embodiments some or all of the described actions by WS providers and or WS consumers are performed via user interactions with a Web site for the WSM such as a Web site dedicated to providing a marketplace for Web services or instead a Web site of a more general Web store that provides various types of items e.g. products services and or information that include the Web services and that are available for purchase rent lease license trade evaluation sampling subscription to etc. Alternatively some or all interactions by the WS providers and or WS consumers are instead performed by programs acting on behalf of the WS providers or consumers by programmatically interacting with one or more computing systems of the WSM such as via defined APIs e.g. via Web services provided by the WSM to implement the underlying functionalities for the WSM . In some embodiments such APIs are based on the use of XML over HTTP e.g. as part of the REpresentational State Transfer or REST distributed interaction model that focuses on resources while in other embodiments the APIs may be based on the use of SOAP and or other protocols related to Web services.

In some embodiments the WSM further provides a capability for at least some of the WS providers and or WS consumers to monitor and manage their interactions with the WSM such as via a portal. For example a registered WS provider may in some embodiments monitor their registered WSes such as to determine the current level and or a historical level of the use of those WSes by WS consumers to determine a current status of their WSes e.g. to verify that their WSes are currently operating properly to determine information about usage models for one or more of their WSes including usage models no longer available to consumers whether use based on those usage models still continues or not etc. In addition WS providers may be able to manage various aspects of their registered WSes such as to modify pricing information and other use condition information for usage models or that are otherwise specified for the WSes or to dynamically specify current throttling conditions for the use of their WSes e.g. to limit volume and or type of use of the WSes for a specified period of time or until specified conditions are satisfied or until further notice . WS providers may also review and or manage their user account information such as to change their current contact information or to review payment amounts currently owed to the WS provider by the WSM. In a similar manner registered WS consumers may monitor and manage their WS subscriptions or other WS access authorizations e.g. to review recent use of their subscriptions and the amount of previously purchased or otherwise approved subscription use remaining to add authorized users for a subscription to a WS to dynamically specify current throttling or other restriction conditions for the use of their subscriptions etc. as well as review and manage their user account e.g. to modify payment source information or to authorize additional WS subscriptions or other WS use such as by purchasing WSM provided points or otherwise prepaying a specified amount that can later be used to pay for or authorize WS use .

As one example of another type of information that can be specified by WS providers and or WS consumers in some embodiments e.g. via the WSM portal or during registration various types of notification requests may be specified for various types of information. For example a WS provider may want to receive a standard email notification when the average volume of invocations of their WSes over a specified period of time exceeds a specified threshold and may further wish to receive an urgent alert notification when one of their WSes goes offline or otherwise generates an error condition. Similarly WS consumers may wish to receive notifications based on use or current status of their subscriptions on the current availability of specified WSes and or specified categories of WSes on the current status of their user account information e.g. the amount of WSM points remaining an amount of other prepaid usage available such as in a manner analogous to a prepaid phone card an amount of currency available in their account when they are approaching the limit of their use within a time based or usage amount based subscription when they are approaching a new tier in a tiered pay per use usage model etc. Such notification requests may include specifications of how to perform the notification as well as the conditions that trigger the notification when they are satisfied. As the WSM operates it monitors defined notification conditions in order to determine when notifications are appropriate and performs the requested notifications in the manner specified.

In addition while a WS subscription is in some embodiments limited to the particular WS consumer that created the subscription in other embodiments a WS subscription may be shared among multiple different users. For example in some embodiments a WS consumer may specify one or more affiliate users for one or more of their WS subscriptions with each affiliate user given specified rights to use those WS subscriptions e.g. authorization to make a specified total number of WS invocation requests based on the subscription or a specified limit on the volume of such WS invocation requests a specification of conditions under which use of the subscription by an affiliate is allowed or disallowed etc. . In addition in some situations a WS consumer may create a WS subscription on behalf of an indicated application or a specified copy or instance of such an application such as an application developed and or distributed by the WS consumer and may specify that some or all users of that application are authorized to use that WS subscription in some or all situations. Conversely in some embodiments such an application developer or distributor may instead incorporate one or more WS invocation requests as part of their application whether or not in conjunction with a subscription by that WS consumer but may instead limit some or all uses of those WS invocation requests by the application users such that those users may instead need to provide their own payment and or subscriptions to those WSes in order to use that functionality of the application.

In some embodiments composite Web services may also be registered with the WSM and used by WS consumers with each composite WS able to invoke one or more other WSes. In addition in some embodiments a composite WS may include specified logic related to how and when to invoke the other WSes e.g. based on a scripting language such as to provide conditional invocation of one WS based on the response information received from another WS. As one example a composite WS may invoke two or more other WSes e.g. WSes from WS providers unrelated to the creator of the composite WS in order to obtain response information that is then aggregated to provide the response information for the composite WS. As another example some or all of the WSes specified for the composite WS are provided by the composite WS creator and the composite WS specifies logic such that one of the specified WSes is invoked only if appropriate information is received from earlier invocation of another of the WSes e.g. if that received information is to be used as part of that later invocation . In yet another example a composite WS may invoke a single WS e.g. from a WS provider other than the composite WS creator in order to encapsulate that single WS using additional information and or logic specified as part of the composite WS. In some embodiments any third party can create and register composite WSes that invoke other WSes provided by other WS providers while in other embodiments various restrictions may be imposed on the creation of such composite WSes e.g. to limit composite WS creation to WS providers that provide at least one or all of the WSes that are part of the composite WS such as restrictions configured by the provider of a WS when registering the WS. In addition in some embodiments such composite WSes may have their own specified pricing information and other use conditions such as part of configured usage models for the composite WSes by their creators while in other embodiments such pricing and use conditions may instead be automatically determined based on the pricing and use conditions of the underlying WSes invoked by the composite WS.

Similarly in some embodiments bundled WSes may also be registered with the WSM and used by WS consumers with each bundle containing one or more WSes. Such a bundle of WSes may for example provide separate access to each of multiple WSes in the bundle at a cost that is less than that of individually accessing each of those WSes or instead may provide access to one or more WSes as part of a bundle that are not otherwise available. In some embodiments each such WS bundle may have its own one or more specified usage models that are distinct from the usage models of any of the WSes in the bundle. In some embodiments restrictions also may exist on who may bundle a WS from a WS provider e.g. only the WS provider while in other embodiments the WSM and or some or all other users may be allowed to bundle the WS e.g. to bundle the WS with WSes from one or more other WS providers . Such bundling restrictions for a WS may in at least some embodiments be configured by the provider of the WS such as to be included in some or all usage models for the WS.

Moreover in some embodiments various third parties can interact with the WSM to obtain various additional functionality for themselves and or to provide such additional functionality to other users. For example in some embodiments external computing systems may provide WS coordination services to other users with the computing systems defining WS coordination requests and interacting with the WSM to request satisfaction of those requests. Such coordination requests may in some embodiments specify other registered WSes to be invoked and or specify various logic to be executed thus providing capabilities similar to those of registered composite WSes without having to register those WS coordinations. The coordination requests may be supplied to the WSM for execution e.g. for a fee charged by the WSM or instead based on specified pricing information for usage model s for the WSes invoked by the coordination and may be represented in various ways in various embodiments e.g. as data structures code modules templates mappings portable code etc. . In other embodiments such third party coordination services may instead execute the coordination logic for coordinations such as by interacting with the WSM to individually invoke each WS for the coordination as specified by the logic for the coordination and then combining any resulting response information to be provided to the requester of the coordination e.g. a user of the coordination service such as for a fee .

In addition to coordination services third parties can obtain and provide a variety of other types of functionality by interacting with the WSM. For example in some embodiments some third parties may provide WSM agents that interact with the WSM to provide additional functionality to users such as to monitor various aspects of the operation of the WSM in order to provide information or notifications to the user e.g. in situations in which the WSM does not provide corresponding notification capabilities for the type of information being monitored by the agent or instead to replicate a capability available from the WSM for a user who is not eligible to receive the information from the WSM . A variety of other types of interactions with the WSM can similarly be provided to enable various other types of additional functionality and capabilities.

As previously noted in some embodiments some or all of the registered WSes may have specified pricing information e.g. based on use prices of usage models such that WS consumers provide payment to use those WSes. In some embodiments a variety of types of billing mechanisms are provided for WS consumers. For example as previously noted in some embodiments WS consumers may be able to purchase WS subscriptions that can then be used at later times and in some embodiments the WSM may sell non subscription WS access. In some embodiments the billing mechanisms for a WS may also include one or more use prices specified in a usage model for the WS that are to be charged multiple times e.g. periodically such as in a manner configured by the provider of the WS e.g. to indicate timing for the multiple charges such as a payment cycle . In addition in some embodiments the WSM may accumulate the costs of some or all of the WS uses for a consumer over a specified period of time e.g. all of the uses of a particular WS or some or all uses of multiple unrelated WSes such as to provide a single monthly or other periodic bill for those uses. In addition in some embodiments billing occurrences are based on prior specified Service Level Agreements SLAs with certain WS consumers and or based on the Quality of Service QoS requested by and or actually provided to the consumer. A WS provider may for example throttle use of a WS in accordance with one usage model for the WS to ensure that a high QoS for that and or another usage model for the WS is satisfied as well as to potentially encourage high volume users to select an appropriate usage model that has a sufficiently high volume and QoS. For example a provider of a WS may specify a use price and usage model for that WS that is based on one or more specified QoS levels provided by that WS provider in conjunction with the access to that WS e.g. a maximum response time a minimum level of accuracy of response information etc. . The specified use price and usage model for that WS may be the only use price and or usage model for that WS or instead may be one of multiple use prices and usage models e.g. with one or more of the other use prices and usage models having other specified QoS levels and or no QoS levels . If there are multiple use prices and usage models for the WS access to the WS that is purchased based on a particular use price and or usage model e.g. a subscription purchased for an access fee based on that use price and or usage model is performed in accordance with the specified QoS levels for that particular use price and usage model when possible. Similarly an operator of the WSM may in some embodiments specify an access price for each of one or more of the registered WSes that is based on one or more specified QoS levels provided by the WSM in conjunction with access to those WSes e.g. a maximum response time a minimum level of accuracy of response information etc. . For example the access price may be the only access price for a WS or instead may be one of multiple access prices for the WS e.g. based on one or more specified use prices and or usage models for the WS with one or more of the other access prices having other specified QoS levels provided by the WSM and or no QoS levels . If so access to the WS that is purchased based on a particular access price is performed in accordance with the specified QoS levels for that access price when possible. In some embodiments if access to a WS is not provided to a consumer in accordance with specified QoS levels purchased by that consumer and or is not provided in accordance with any previously specified SLAs for that consumer various additional actions may be taken to compensate the consumer e.g. by providing a payment credit by not counting that access as part of the paid access for the consumer etc. and or to correct any problems e.g. to correct any internal mechanisms of the electronic marketplace such as by notifying appropriate personnel associated with the electronic marketplace to correct performance of the provider of the WS such as by notifying appropriate personnel associated with the WS provider and or by providing a financial incentive to the WS provider such as by delaying or reducing payment to that WS provider etc. .

Moreover in some embodiments WS consumers can obtain WSM provided points that can be later used to purchase subscriptions and other WS access for various WSes such points may be a WS payment option that WS consumers can purchase or otherwise earn e.g. as a reward for later use with a specified group of WSes and or WS providers e.g. all or a subset of WSes and WS providers . The points for a WS may be identified to a potential WS consumer in various ways in various embodiments e.g. displayed or otherwise accessible as a subscription or access price for some or all WSes whether in addition to or instead of one or more prices in governmental currencies . The determination of how many points are needed to purchase access to a WS subscription or other WS access may similarly be determined in various ways in various embodiments e.g. by specifying and using a standard exchange rate for all WSes by allowing each WS and or WS provider to have an individualized specified exchange rate such as one specified at registration time for the WS and or WS provider e.g. as part of one or more usage models for the WS or by dynamically determining appropriate WSM points for a WS based on a variety of factors when the price is provided to a potential WS consumer such as a current usage rate of the WS other current conditions such as a current day time information about the WS consumer etc. . In some embodiments other related types of prepaid access to one or more WSes may be purchased by consumers and used in similar manners such as to purchase a specified amount of time for a particular WS or for access to any of some or all of the WSes e.g. WSes of a particular category or type in a manner similar to that of a prepaid telephone card. Similarly in other embodiments the WSM may aggregate or otherwise accumulate the costs of some or all of the WS uses for a consumer over a specified period of time such as to provide a single monthly bill for all use of a specified WS or of all WSes.

In addition in some embodiments the WSM provides various security and or privacy mechanisms to ensure that only authorized WS providers can register and provide WSes and or that only authorized WS consumers can subscribe to and or access registered WSes. Such security and or privacy can be provided in a variety of ways including the use of passwords public key encryption digital certificates etc. In addition the WSM may use various security and or privacy mechanisms with respect to management monitoring interactions by WS consumers and or WS providers such as to provide information to users only when they are authorized to receive it and to allow modification of WS related information and of subscriptions only when authorized. Similarly in embodiments in which affiliates of WS consumers or other users are allowed at least some access to subscriptions of the WS consumer various security and or privacy mechanisms may be employed to ensure that the affiliates are authorized to receive any benefits and information provided to them.

Furthermore in addition to having WSes provided by third party WS providers and to providing access to registered WSes for third party WS consumers in some embodiments the WSM itself may act as a WS provider and or WS consumer for one or more WSes such as an alternative to other third party provided WSes or instead to provide WSes that are not otherwise available to WS consumers. In addition various other capabilities provided and used by the WSM may also be implemented as WSes such as a WSM API available to WS providers and or WS consumers as well as internal capabilities used by the WSM e.g. determining whether a specific subscription request for a WS satisfies the specified use conditions for that WS by invoking an internal WS that provides the service of comparing the specified use conditions and requested use information to determine whether the specified use conditions are satisfied .

Furthermore as previously noted in some embodiments the use of the WSM and or individual WSes may be restricted with respect to selected geographic locations e.g. global regions countries states etc. . Such geographical limitations may be enforced in various ways including the use of Geo IP blocking accepting payments only from accepted geographical locations and or terms of service of the WSM such that users certify that they are located or not located within an indicated geographical location. In other embodiments the WSM may act differently based on the location of a consumer such as by offering only a subset of the registered WSes to the consumer offering different usage models and or different use prices or different use conditions to the consumer charging different taxes and fees e.g. VAT in European countries or sales tax where appropriate to the consumer etc. The WSM may similarly act differently based on the location of the provider including varying fees and or taxes that may be levied upon providers for certain geographical locations e.g. taxes required by local laws such as by withholding appropriate amounts from payments made to the provider.

Various other types of capabilities may similarly be provided in at least some embodiments. For example while creation of one or more usage models for a WS may occur as part of the registration of the WS in at least some embodiments usage models may be modified and created by WS providers at other times such as when the WS providers are managing their WSes. As previously noted such managing of WSes may be performed for example via a portal provided by the WSM and may include managing WSes and or usage models that are no longer available to consumers e.g. including usage models that are no longer available for selection but that are still in use by some consumers based on prior selections . By enabling WS providers to configure usage models for their WSes similar WSes from different WS providers will compete in the marketplace for selection by consumers providing better selection for consumers. Furthermore allowing billing to be performed between applications e.g. from applications of consumers such as applications used by the consumers or provided by application developer or distributor consumers to other end users to applications of WS providers that provide the WSes enables various functionalities to be provided to users of applications. As one example when a user is interacting with a first service e.g. a service provided by an application program or a Web site that first service may perform billing or otherwise obtain payment from or for the user on behalf of the user s use of the first service and or on behalf of the user s use of one or more other services or functionality e.g. third party services that are unrelated to the first service doing the billing . Moreover the first service doing the billing may further configure pricing for the use of the other services or functionality via the first service that is different from that otherwise charged by the other services or functionality. For example the first service may charge more than is charged by the other services or functionality e.g. in order to retain the difference such as to reflect discounted prices of the other services or functionality that are available to the first service or to add to the same price that the other services or functionality would charge the first service or the user directly . As yet another example the first service may charge less than is charged by the other services or functionality e.g. as part of functionality provided to the user as a benefit provided to some or all users to reflect discounted prices of the other services or functionality that are available to the first service etc. . In addition as previously noted in some embodiments a WS provider may request that one or more discount coupons be generated for a WS and or for use with an indicated usage model e.g. at the time of WS registration or other usage model creation such as for distribution to potential consumers by the WS provider or by the WSM under indicated conditions. Moreover as discussed in greater detail elsewhere the WSM may track and monitor use of WSes by consumers in various ways and for various purposes including to track when WSM points and or prepaid access of a consumer to one or more WSes is exhausted such as to notify the consumer and or to cutoff any further access to those WSes until additional payment is received. In some embodiments the WSes and or other services made available via the WSM may further include one or more WSes or other services that are provided by the WSM such as services made available to consumers in a manner similar to services provided by third party service providers and or services made available to WS providers to facilitate their use of the WSM. In addition in some embodiments usage models may be used to control access of consumers to WSes without obtaining payment from the consumers such as to identify and authenticate consumers who use the WSes and optionally with payment and or other interactions between the consumers and the providers of the WSes occurring outside the operation of the WSM.

In addition as discussed in greater detail below the WSM can also provide a variety of other types of functionalities and capabilities as described.

For illustrative purposes some embodiments of the software facility are described below in which a specific WSM embodiment provides various specific types of capabilities and functionalities with respect to various specific types of WSes and uses various specific types of user interfaces and other interactions to provide those functionalities and capabilities. However those skilled in the art will appreciate that the techniques of the invention can be used in a wide variety of other situations including with services and items other than Web services and that the invention is not limited to the exemplary details provided.

In this example embodiment various information about a number of available WSes is displayed to the potential customer with the WSes divided into several WS categories as shown. A variety of information is provided for each indicated WS including a name an indication of the WS provider that is the source for the WS one or more prices corresponding to use of the WS such as in accordance with one or more usage models of the WS any specified use conditions for the WS such as in accordance with at least one usage model of the WS or all usage models of the WS and a description of the WS. In this example those types of information are provided by a WS provider when registering a WS. Each WS further has a unique item ID that is automatically generated by the WSM although in other embodiments such unique item IDs may not be used or the item ID may be different for each usage model of a WS. In some embodiments the provider of a WS may specify which use conditions will be displayed or otherwise provided to a user when searching while in other embodiments the WSM may automatically determine which use conditions or other information to provide or instead all use conditions may be provided. As is shown a variety of types of pricing models and use conditions are illustrated in this example.

While not illustrated here a variety of other types of information may similarly be specified as part of one or more registration screens by a WS provider for a WS being registered in other embodiments. For example such information may include information concerning interacting with or accessing the WS e.g. input parameters and a URL to invoke the service such as may be defined in a provided WSDL file restrictions that are specific to the WS rather than to any individual usage model of the WS or that are shared across all usage models for the WS indications of scheduling and or testing information for the WS or for one or more usage models of the WS e.g. to indicate a test of new pricing information or of a new usage model to limit access during an indicated testing phase etc. a request that one or more discount coupons be generated for the WS or for a usage model e.g. for distribution to potential consumers by the WS provider or by the WSM under indicated conditions information regarding the timing of multiple charges that are to be made e.g. when a single use price is to be charged multiple times such as during an indicated billing cycle information regarding how use prices are to be charged e.g. allowed payment instrument types and or allowed currencies details regarding a multi tiered usage model is structured e.g. the parameters of each tier such as based on usage volume amount of time etc. details regarding different use prices and or use conditions for different situations or criteria e.g. higher prices for indicated peak usage time or conditions than for non peak time or conditions restrictions on the number of users allowed to share a multi use subscription instructions for aggregation of payments etc. In addition in some embodiments the WS provider may specify multiple pieces or types of descriptive information for a WS e.g. both a short description and a detailed description of the WS to be displayed to consumers at different times and or in different locations such as for use in a consumer user interface screen similar to that shown in etc. In addition the information being configured by a WS provider for a WS may be specified in a variety of ways such as in an interactive or programmatic manner and using various types of user interface widgets and other input mechanisms e.g. a dropdown list to indicate predefined types of use prices or predefined types of use conditions .

The example user interface screen in also includes a section that provides various personalized recommendations of registered WSes to the current user such as based on previously specified interests of the user and or other automatic determinations of WSes of potential interest e.g. based on usage history for the user . In this illustrated example each of the recommended WSes is illustrated with various associated information such as a corresponding use price and WS provider and each additionally has an associated user selectable control with which the WS can be added to the user s shopping cart and a user selectable control with which the user can request to immediately subscribe to the WS. In some embodiments when a WS has multiple usage models the different usage models may be shown separately or may instead be represented together e.g. via a dropdown list or other list type from which the various usage models available to that consumer may be displayed and selected including private usage models . This illustrated user interface screen further includes various information related to user reviews of one or more WSes e.g. of a WS selected in another portion of the screen or of a particular WS indicated to the user including a user selectable control with which the user can select to provide their own review and or rating of the WS e.g. after use of the WS and a section that includes various review and rating information for the WS provided by one or more other users. While these various types of WS related information are illustrated on a single screen in this example in other embodiments some or all of the information could be provided at other times and in other manners e.g. by providing review and rating information for a WS on a detail screen for that WS such as the screen illustrated in or instead via a search screen similar to that illustrated in .

In addition in some embodiments the user interface may include one or more screens that allow the user to specify security and or privacy information as desired. For example a WS consumer may be able to prohibit or otherwise restrict access to WSes on their behalf e.g. for all or a specified subset of their subscriptions based on various user configurable settings including based on IP addresses associated with WSes on developer tokens associated with users making WS access requests on referring URLs on subscriber ID via cookies etc. A WS provider may similarly be able to prohibit or otherwise restrict access to WSes that they provide in a variety of ways including by specifying various use conditions or use restrictions as part of the usage model and WS providers and WS consumers may in some embodiments be able to specify various security and or privacy information for use in accessing information about their accounts and provided and or accessed WSes.

In particular WS providers interact with a front end interface of the WSM system to register WSes as well as in some embodiments to initially register themselves as users of the WSM system e.g. as WS provider users . In the illustrated embodiment the front end interface may be a Web site with which the user interacts and or an API e.g. a WS API with which external computing systems and executing applications interact although in other embodiments other types of front end interfaces may alternatively be used.

In this illustrated embodiment after the front end receives a registration request for a WS provider or for a WS available from the provider corresponding information is forwarded to an Access Controller component of the WSM system to determine whether to approve the request e.g. based on whether sufficient appropriate information was provided and or on whether other predefined criteria have been satisfied such as whether use conditions and other criteria for a selected usage model are satisfied with respect to a consumer request for access to a WS and indicates to the front end whether the request was approved. In addition the Access Controller component stores information about the registered WS such as the information configured for one or more usage models or WS provider for later use in a WS database or Consumer Provider User Account database respectively.

In a similar manner WS consumers interact with the front end to obtain information about available WSes to subscribe to or otherwise request access to available WSes and in some embodiments to initially register with the WSM as a user e.g. a WS consumer user prior to such subscription access requests. As with registration requests from WS providers the front end forwards information regarding WS consumer registration subscription and access requests to the Access Controller for determination of whether to approve the requests and the Access Controller responds to the front end in an appropriate manner. The Access Controller also stores information about registered consumers in the Account database and about registered subscriptions to WSes and other WS access authorizations in the WS subscription database .

In other embodiments some or all such information could instead be stored in other manners such as to maintain separate account database information for WS consumers and WS providers or to maintain subscription information and other usage model information along with other user information in the Account database. In addition in embodiments in which WS providers and or WS consumers can specify notification requests e.g. at the time of user registration such information is also forwarded to the Access Controller which stores the information as appropriate in the WS Notification Conditions database for later use.

In the illustrated embodiment the WSM system further includes a WSM Portal component with which WS consumers and WS providers can interact to obtain information about their accounts and to perform other interactions with the WSM system such as to monitor and or manage usage models and other WS related information. In some embodiments the WSM Portal interacts with the front end interface to perform requested retrievals and modifications of information while in other embodiments instead interacts directly with the various databases and as appropriate.

When a WS access request is received from a WS consumer and the Access Controller approves the request the front end interacts with a WS Invoker component to perform invocation of one or more WSes as appropriate such as based on information retrieved from the WS database and or received from the front end. WS Invoker component then interacts with one or more WS providers as appropriate to invoke the appropriate WSes and to receive response information although in other embodiments the WS Invoker may instead only facilitate access by a consumer to a WS without directly performing the invocation. In some embodiments the WS Invoker stores received response information in an optional cache for later use such as to use in lieu of a WS invocation in certain situations as appropriate. In addition in some embodiments one or more of the WS providers from which the WS Invoker may invoke WSes can be one or more optional internal WSM WS providers . After obtaining the appropriate response information whether from a WS provider or from the cache the WS Invoker component returns the response information to the front end. In some embodiments the front end interface performs additional processing on the received response information before providing it to the requesting WS consumer such as to aggregate information from multiple invoked WSes and or to format the response information in accordance with previously specified preferences for the WS consumer.

In addition in the illustrated embodiment the WS Invoker component also provides information to a WS Transaction Monitor component regarding some or all processed WS invocation requests such as for all requests whether satisfied from the cache or from a WS provider or instead only for successful requests to an external WS provider. In the illustrated embodiment the WS Transaction Monitor component in turn stores information about the transactions in a WS Transaction database as appropriate with the stored information then available for various uses e.g. to charge the appropriate amount for consumer selected usage models used in the transactions . In addition in the illustrated embodiment the WS Transaction Monitor component reviews information in the WS Notification Conditions database to determine whether transactions and or other status information have triggered one or more specified notification conditions such as after each transaction or instead on a periodic basis. When the WS Transaction Monitor component determines that one or more notifications have been triggered the component forwards corresponding information to a Customer Provider Notifier component to perform notifications to WS consumers and or WS providers as appropriate.

When a received request by the Access Controller and or WS Invoker corresponds to payment that needs to be obtained on behalf of a consumer regarding a WS e.g. for a subscription request or other WS access request one or more of the components interact with a WS Payment Module component in the illustrated embodiment to provide information about the corresponding request or transaction although in other embodiments the front end could instead interact directly with the Payment Module. The Payment Module then determines the appropriate payment that is needed e.g. by receiving the information from another component and or by retrieving appropriate information from one or more of the databases such as the WS Subscription database WS Transaction database and or Account database and performs the necessary functions to obtain the payment such as in accordance with previously provided payment source information and any specified preferences provided by the WS consumer and with any payment related use conditions configured by the provider of the WS. The Payment Module also stores information about the payments obtained from WS consumers and any corresponding payments owed and or provided to WS providers in a WS Payments database .

As previously noted in some embodiments one or more third party systems or users may additionally be present to interact with the WSM system such as via the front end interface. As discussed in greater detail elsewhere such third party systems may provide a variety of types of services and functionalities including coordination agent based monitoring payment processing etc.

An embodiment of the WSM system is executing in memory and it interacts with the other computing systems over the network using the network connection e.g. via the Internet and or the World Wide Web . The other computing systems can similarly execute various information as part of the interactions such as a Web browser executing in memory of the WS consumer computing systems to allow users of the systems to interact with the WSM system and such as a WS server executing in memory of the WS provider computing systems to provide Web service functionality. Such other computing systems also include a variety of I O devices in the illustrated embodiment including network connections to communicate with each other and the server computing system over the network. In addition in the illustrated embodiment a variety of datastores e.g. databases and are present on the storage for use by the WSM system although in other embodiments some or all such databases may instead be located elsewhere and or be organized in other manners.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the illustrated computing systems are merely illustrative and are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Computing system may be connected to other devices that are not illustrated including through one or more networks such as the Internet or via the Web. More generally the server and other computing systems may comprise any combination of hardware or software that can interact in the manners described including computers network devices internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers electronic organizers television based systems and various other consumer products that include inter communication capabilities. In addition the functionality provided by the WSM system components illustrated in may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them can be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software modules and or components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computing device via inter computer communication. Some or all of the WSM system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer readable medium such as a hard disk a memory a network or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive. The WSM system components and data structures can also be transmitted as generated data signals e.g. as part of a carrier wave on a variety of computer readable transmission mediums including wireless based and wired cable based mediums. Accordingly the present invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations.

The routine begins at step where an indication is received from a WS provider to register a WS. The routine continues in the illustrated embodiment to step to determine whether the WS provider is a registered user of the WSM and if not continues to step to attempt to register the WS provider e.g. by obtaining contact information for the WS provider information about how to provide payment to the WS provider based on use of the provider s registered WSes by WS consumers etc. . After step the routine continues to step to determine whether the registration of the WS provider was successful. If so or if it was instead determined in step that the WS provider was already registered as a user or did not need to be registered as a user the routine continues to step to receive an indication from the WS provider of various information corresponding to the WS being registered such as a name one or more use prices e.g. as part of one or more usage models being configured a description for use by potential consumers other non price use conditions e.g. as part of the one or more usage models and invocation details for the WS. In some embodiments such information may instead be received as part of step . Additional details related to one embodiment of step are illustrated with respect to the WS Usage Model Configuration subroutine shown in .

After step the routine continues to step to determine whether to accept the WS registration such as based on an automated determination e.g. on whether appropriate information has been supplied and any predefined criteria had been satisfied and or a manual determination e.g. by a user representing the WSM based on whether the WS is appropriate for the WSM . In step the routine determines whether the registration was accepted and if not continues to step to generate a registration denial message for the WS provider. If it was instead determined in step that the registration was accepted the routine continues instead to step to assign a unique item ID to the WS for use by the WSM system in tracking various information related to the WS although in other embodiments a unique item ID may instead be assigned to each usage model associated with the WS. The routine then continues to step to optionally receive one or more of various types of information related to the WS such as any use throttling conditions e.g. limits on how many invocation requests to allow for the service availability conditions e.g. times at which the WS is not available or other conditions under which the WS is available or not available notification conditions related to the WS etc. although in other embodiments some or all of this information may instead be specified as part of step e.g. as part of one or more usage models being configured . The routine then continues to step to store the various received information related to the WS in one or more databases as appropriate and then makes the registered WS available to potential consumers in accordance with any availability conditions. In step the routine then generates a registration acceptance message for the WS provider.

After steps or the routine continues to step to send the generated message to the WS provider and optionally provides additional information related to the registration e.g. the assigned item ID . In step the routine then determines whether to register more WSes for this WS provider and if so returns to step . If not the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue. If so or if it was instead determined in step that the WS provider registration was not successful the routine returns to step . If the routine instead determines not to continue the routine continues to step and ends. While not illustrated here in some embodiments the routine could additionally use various security information and or mechanisms such as to ensure that only authorized WS providers can register new WSes. In addition as previously described in some embodiments the routine may be provided as part of a user s interaction with a Web site or other interactive interface while in other embodiments the routine may be performed as part of a programmatically accessed API.

The routine begins at step where an indication is received from a WS consumer of a WS of interest such as to indicate a selected usage model of the WS if the WS has more than one usage model available to the consumer . The routine continues to step to determine whether the WS consumer is a registered user of the WSM system and if not continues to step to attempt to register the WS consumer e.g. by obtaining contact information payment source information information about any associated applications and or affiliates if the consumer is a developer of one or more application programs preferences for how to receive information etc. . The routine then continues to step to determine whether the registration of the consumer was successful. If so or if it was instead determined in step that the WS consumer was already registered or that registration of the consumer was not needed the routine continues to step to receive information about a WS use request from the WS consumer although in other embodiments such information may instead have been received in step . As an example the WS use request may include an indication of a unique item ID associated with the WS or with a selected usage model for the WS an indication of the type of use request e.g. a subscription request an indication of a usage model for the WS preference information for how to receive response information from the WS payment information if needed for the WS a type of intended use of the WS etc.

After step the routine continues to step to determine whether to accept the WS use request such as based on whether the request contains sufficient appropriate information on whether any additional information was supplied as configured e.g. an acceptance of indicated terms of service for the WS on whether any needed payment can be obtained based on the request or other information for the WS consumer on whether the WS consumer and or request satisfies any other specified use conditions for the WS whether the use request would exceed any throttling condition specified for the WS etc. The routine continues to step if it was determined in step that the request was accepted in order to determine whether the use request was a subscription request for later use. If so the routine continues to step to generate a subscription ID corresponding to the subscription for later use by the WS consumer during access requests corresponding to the subscription. In step the routine then retrieves details about how the consumer should request the WS and about the format of any response information. In step the routine then optionally receives one or more of a variety of types of information related to the subscription such as any notification conditions related to the subscription any application and or affiliates associated with the subscription any subscription use throttling and or availability conditions e.g. to restrict it use by affiliates etc.

After step or if it was instead determined in step that the use request was a non subscription request for immediate access the routine continues to step to obtain payment for the subscription or immediate access if needed such as based on any payment source information received or previously associated with the WS consumer and or based on any payment instructions configured by a provider of the WS e.g. as part of a selected usage model such as payment aggregation instructions. After step the routine continues to step to determine whether any needed payment was received and if so continues to step to again determine whether the use request was a subscription for later use. If so the routine continues to step to store any received information for the subscription and to send the generated subscription ID and the retrieved details about how to request the WS to the WS consumer for later use. If it was instead determined in step that the use request was a non subscription request for immediate access the routine continues to step to execute a routine to invoke the Web service to obtain response information as appropriate although in other embodiments the routine may instead facilitate access to the WS in other manners. In step any response information received in step is then sent to the WS consumer.

After steps or the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue and if not continues to step and ends. If it was instead determined in step to continue or in step that the WS consumer registration was not successful or in step that the WS use request was not accepted or in step that any needed payment was not received the routine returns to step .

As with the WS registration routine the illustrated routine can be provided in various ways in various embodiments including as part of an interactive Web site with which a WS consumer user interacts and or as part of a programmatically accessed APL In addition while not illustrated here in some embodiments various security information and or mechanisms may be used such as to ensure that only authorized WS consumers are allowed to subscribe to some or all WSes and or to perform immediate WS access requests without subscriptions. Additionally while not illustrated here in some embodiments various anti fraud mechanisms may be utilized such as to ensure that no unauthorized people are using a WS consumer s account or to prevent abuse of a usage model through multiple accounts or violations of the use conditions.

The routine begins at step where a WS access request is received such as based on a previously created subscription e.g. based on a selected usage model . The routine continues to to determine whether the access request is a subscription based request e.g. based on whether a subscription ID is received as part of the request or instead if an indication is received that the access request is for immediate invocation without a subscription e.g. such as based on a message received from the WS Subscription routine illustrated in as part of the execution of step .

If it is determined in step that the WS invocation request is a subscription based request the routine continues to step to retrieve subscription related information from the received request such as an indication of the subscription ID for the subscription e.g. based on a corresponding usage model and of the identity of the WS consumer. In step the routine then retrieves stored information for the subscription and any corresponding usage model and in step determines whether to approve the request such as based on whether the subscription is valid including whether any corresponding use conditions are currently satisfied whether any current subscription based throttling conditions and or WS based throttling conditions are satisfied whether the requesting user is authorized to use the subscription in the requested manner e.g. is an authorized affiliate for the subscription etc. If it is determined in step that the request is not approved the routine continues to step to send an error response message to the requester and to store information about the error but otherwise continues to step to determine whether any payment is needed for the request and if so to attempt to obtain the payment e.g. for purchased subscriptions in which an additional per access charge applies or for subscriptions that a WS consumer has established such that affiliates using the subscription provide their own payment for their use in a manner so as to reflect any payment related instructions configured by the provider of the WS. As discussed elsewhere payment can be obtained in various ways in various embodiments including by dynamically purchasing a subscription or other access e.g. as a credit card transaction via use of previously acquired WSM points etc. If it is determined in step that needed payment is not obtained the routine continues to step .

If it is instead determined in step that any needed payment is obtained or in step that the received request was not a subscription based request the routine continues instead to step to retrieve stored information for the WS including information about how to invoke the WS. The routine then continues to step to invoke the WS from the WS provider as necessary to obtain response information using the retrieved WS invocation information. While not illustrated here in some embodiments retrieved information may be stored in a cache or other storage mechanism and such cached stored information may be considered for use rather than invoking the WS from a WS provider. In addition in some embodiments step may be performed regardless of the validation actions in step as to whether to approve the request and in step whether any needed payment was obtained such as to perform step in parallel with such validation steps and to handle any failure of those steps by not providing to the requester any response information and or other benefits resulting from the WS invocation. After step the routine continues to step to store a record of the WS access transaction.

In step the routine then determines if any notification conditions have been triggered by the request and or response as well as whether any other updates are needed e.g. to update a subscription after the last authorized use has been made so that any next attempt to use a subscription would fail and if so the routine proceeds accordingly to provide such notifications and or perform such updates. After step the routine continues to step to determine whether response information was successfully received from the WS service invocation and if not continues to to credit any payment obtained in step before continuing to step in other embodiments payment may not be obtained until after successful invocation to prevent such payment credits or instead payment may be retained even if the invocation fails . If it is determined in step that response information was successfully received the routine continues to step to format the response information as appropriate for the requester e.g. based on previously specified preferences to remove details about invocation of the service etc. and then sends the formatted response information to the requester. After steps or the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue. If so the routine returns to step and if not the routine continues to step and ends.

As with the registration and subscription routines the WS Invocation routine can be performed in various ways in various embodiments such as part of an interactive Web site in response to an explicit user request or instead as part of a programmatically accessed API. In addition in some embodiments various security information and or mechanisms may be employed such as to ensure that only authorized WS consumers are able to invoke WSes and that any WS to be invoked is from an authorized WS provider. In addition in some embodiments the information provided to a WS consumer about how to request a WS invocation and any invocation response information returned to the WS consumer is formatted in such a way as to obfuscate or mask various types of information such as the details about how to perform the actual invocation request to the WS provider and or identity or other information about the WS provider in this way the WSM system is able to ensure that any invocation request to WS providers come from the WSM system and are thus authorized. Alternatively in other embodiments the WSM system may not serve as an intermediary for the invocation of some or all WSes such as by providing to WS consumers the details about how to directly interact with a WS provider to invoke a subscribed to or otherwise access approved WS. For example in some embodiments when a WS consumer has purchased or otherwise acquired access to a WS the WSM system could provide access authorization information to the consumer to allow the consumer to obtain access to the WS directly from the provider of the WS such as details about how to access the WS and or a token or other indication that the WS provider can identify and optionally verify as having being supplied by the WSM system when the provider receives the information from the WS consumer e.g. a digital signature information indicating vending payment to the WSM such as transferable WSM points that can be used by the WS provider to receive compensation from the WSM system etc. .

The routine begins at step where a request is received from a user. In step the routine determines whether the user is authorized to make the request such as based on security information and associated access privileges for the user. If it is determined that the user and request are authorized the routine continues to step to determine whether the request is from a WS provider user to modify information for a WS registered by the user and if so continues to step to modify the stored information as appropriate. If it was instead determined that the request was not to modify information for a registered WS the routine continues instead to step to determine whether the request was to monitor a Web service e.g. from the Web service provider user that registered the WS and if so continues to step to retrieve information related to the WS as requested and provide it to the user e.g. information about current status of the WS and or usage of the WS .

If it was determined that the received request was not to monitor a WS the routine continues instead to step to determine whether the request was from a WS consumer user to modify a subscription for the user and if so continues to step to modify the stored information as appropriate. If the request was not to modify information for a subscription the routine continues instead to step to determine whether the request is to monitor use of a subscription e.g. from a WS consumer that created the subscription and if so continues to step to retrieve information related to the subscription as requested and provide it to the user e.g. information about use of a subscription by affiliates .

If it was instead determined that the request was not to monitor use of a subscription the routine continues to step to determine whether the request was to review account information for the user and if so continue to step to retrieve and provide account information to the user as requested. If the request was not to review account information the routine continues instead to step to perform another requested operation if appropriate such as to modify the user s account e.g. by purchasing additional WSM points or otherwise providing additional payment information or to modify a usage model for a WS based on instructions received from a provider of the WS. After steps or the routine continues to step to determine whether to continue. If so the routine continues to step if not the routine continues to step and ends.

As previously described with respect to other routines the WSM Portal routine may be provided in various ways in various embodiments including as part of an interactive Web site with which the user interacts and or as part of a programmatically accessed API. In addition various security mechanisms may be provided to ensure that users are authorized to obtain the information requested and or to make the requested modifications to information. Also various fraud mechanisms may in some embodiments be provided to facilitate detection of abuse of usage models e.g. by allowing unauthorized people to use a subscription based on a usage model detection of unauthorized or unusual activity regarding a user s account and or detection of violations of terms for a usage model.

The subroutine begins at step where multiple predefined types of use prices are displayed to a WS provider user and in step information is received that indicates one or more use prices of one or more of the predefined types that are specified by the user for a usage model being configured for a WS. Multiple use prices may be used in various situations such as for tiered models models whose prices vary based on other types of conditions e.g. peak and non peak prices etc. In step the subroutine displays multiple predefined types of use restrictions or other use conditions are to the user and in step information is received that indicates one or more use conditions of one or more of the predefined types that are specified by the user for the usage model being configured. In other embodiments multiple predefined use price types and or multiple predefined use conditions types may instead not be used.

At step additional information for the usage model may optionally be received by the subroutine from the WS provider user for use as part of the usage model such that access to the WS using the usage model will be performed in accordance with the specified additional information. A variety of types of additional information may be specified in various embodiments including quality of service levels to be provided payment aggregation instructions timing for obtaining multiple payments information regarding how a tier based model is structured such as the start and end of various tiers whether the tiers are cumulative etc. allowed payment methods for providing payment to obtain access to the WS times when the WS is not available to consumers e.g. for scheduled maintenance data update etc. information to be provided to and or obtained from consumers temporary promotions bundling instructions discounts to be provided via discount coupons to be used e.g. with the coupons represented by a single discount code or each represented by a distinct discount code etc. At step the subroutine then performs additional processing as appropriate such as to confirm information received for the usage model to store information about the usage model e.g. temporarily while waiting for approval in step of to allow multiple related usage models to be configured such as to include at least some shared information etc. . After step the subroutine continues to step to determine whether to continue such as to configure additional usage models for the WS. If so the routine returns to step and if not continues to step and ends.

Various other types of functionality relating to pricing and usage may similarly be provided in at least some embodiments. In addition those skilled in the art will also appreciate that in some embodiments the functionality provided by the routines discussed above may be provided in alternative ways such as being split among more routines or consolidated into fewer routines. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated routines may provide more or less functionality than is described such as when other illustrated routines instead lack or include such functionality respectively or when the amount of functionality that is provided is altered. In addition while various operations may be illustrated as being performed in a particular manner e.g. in serial or in parallel and or in a particular order those skilled in the art will appreciate that in other embodiments the operations may be performed in other orders and in other manners. Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that the data structures discussed above may be structured in different manners such as by having a single data structure split into multiple data structures or by having multiple data structures consolidated into a single data structure. Similarly in some embodiments illustrated data structures may store more or less information than is described such as when other illustrated data structures instead lack or include such information respectively or when the amount or types of information that is stored is altered.

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not limited except as by the appended claims and the elements recited therein. In addition while certain aspects of the invention are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the invention in any available claim form. For example while only some aspects of the invention may currently be recited as being embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be so embodied.

