---

title: Over-the-air content management of wireless equipment in confined-coverage wireless networks
abstract: System(s), apparatus(es), and method(s) are provided for managing content of wireless equipment (WE) over-the-air (OTA). Content is germane to feature(s) of the WE and is related to operation thereof. Management of the content is automatically implemented in response to attachment of the WE to a confined-coverage access point (AP). The WE and a network server enable, in part, such management. The confined-coverage AP enables exchange of signaling and data associated with management of the content amongst the WE and the network server. Content includes software (SW); management OTA of SW can include update of an in-use version of a SW application or related SW component(s). SW update signaling can comprise message(s) conveying a WE identifier and in-use version(s) of SW; request(s) for an update instruction; request(s) for at least one file associated with the SW; message(s) indicative of availability of version(s) of SW newer than the in-use version(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09020487&OS=09020487&RS=09020487
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, LP
number: 09020487
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101014
---
The subject disclosure relates to telecommunication networks and more particularly to managing content of wireless equipment over the air OTA through operational resources of confined coverage wireless networks and in response to operational behavior of confined coverage access points. The content is specific to feature s of the wireless equipment and related to operation thereof.

Network operators and end users benefit from operating wireless equipment user equipment UE customer premises equipment CPE etc. with current or last know version software or firmware applications. Over the air OTA software updates also referred to fix OTA FOTA updates are relatively large and difficult or costly to deliver to wireless equipment UE CPE etc. over a macrocellular wireless data network. In FOTA updates all or a substantive portion of data traffic including large FOTA files typically require costly transport between a base station and a network platform of a content provider. Such resources can be shared by a mixture of end users consuming real time and background applications in related user devices. Moreover substantive background FOTA traffic tends to degrade the experience of real time applications that share the same resources. Furthermore macrocellular network coverage and related loading conditions also can reduce the success rate of delivery of large FOTA files to the wireless equipment. Because of at least the foregoing characteristics of FOTA software updates such updates of wireless equipment are usually only implemented as required e.g. when a subscriber that operates the wireless equipment calls customer service.

Additionally certain conventional systems and related solutions that do not rely on OTA deployment of software SW application s or related component s in order to effect an SW update of a UE generally include considerable manual intervention and typically require tethering the UE to a host computer e.g. a personal computer PC with a broadband connection. Therefore subscribers that exploit such conventional systems to update mobile devices are primarily limited to updates opportunities to the extent that they tether their mobile device to such host computer. Perhaps more importantly subscriber without access to such host computer or opportunities to tether thereto on a regular basis are likely to consume wireless service through a UE that operates in underperforming conditions.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. This summary is not an extensive overview of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the subject disclosure nor delineate any scope thereof. The sole purpose of the subject summary is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented hereinafter.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s apparatus es and method s for managing content of wireless equipment WE over the air OTA . Content is germane to at least one feature of the WE and is related to operation thereof the at least one feature can be a hardware feature a software feature a security feature an access clearance feature a location feature or a combination thereof. Management of the content is automatically implemented in response to attachment of the WE to a confined coverage access point AP . The WE and a network server enable in part such management. The confined coverage AP enables exchange of signaling and data associated with management of the content amongst the WE and the network server. Content includes software SW management OTA of SW can include update of an in use version of a SW application or related SW component s . SW update signaling can comprise message s conveying a WE identifier and in use version s of SW request s for an update instruction request s for at least one file associated with the SW message s indicative of availability of version s of SW newer than the in use version s . The numerous aspects and features of the subject disclosure provide at least the following illustrative advantages with respect to conventional OTA update of SW application s or SW component s through macrocell base stations. i Automatic implementation of management content in response to recognition of a confined coverage AP that serves the wireless equipment for which content in managed. ii Utilization of radio and transport resources provided by a subscriber of wireless service provided in part through the confined coverage AP. iii Increased revenue potential and perceived quality of service originated in proactive deployment download installation activation etc. of content utilized by the wireless equipment. iv One to many distribution of content through caching. Compared to distribution of content that is common to multiple wireless equipment and entails repeated distribution from a network based server MOTA server to each of the multiple wireless equipment one to many distribution from a single non network based cache reduces utilization of backhaul network resources since the content can be made available to each of the multiple wireless equipment in a single event. vi Efficient release of resources of the confined coverage AP and mitigation of impact of battery life of the wireless equipment. In addition for at least a femtocell network the numerous aspects or features described herein provide superior solution s to OTA management of content for wireless equipment by leveraging operational aspects of the femtocell network.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are network and radio technology agnostic and can be exploited in substantially any network and through most any or any wireless communication technology. For example Wi Fi wireless fidelity Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX IS 95 Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all or all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

While various aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are illustrated in reference to femtocell femto access point s such aspects and features also can be exploited in other types of confined coverage access points e.g. home based access point s enterprise based access point s that provide wireless coverage to a confined wireless environment through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as but not limited to Wi Fi or picocell telecommunication.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the subject disclosure then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of one or more embodiments of the disclosure. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the subject disclosure may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the subject disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of various example embodiments of the subject disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It may be evident however that the present disclosure may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present disclosure.

As employed in this specification and annexed drawings the terms component system platform interface node coder decoder layer and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such entities are also referred to herein as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a memory a code object an executable code instruction a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures or code instructions stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface node driver coder decoder layer and the like.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB or home access point HAP which include femtocell access point picocell access point Wi Fi base station . . . and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or apparatus that at least delivers and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream. Sources or recipients of such data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream can be at least a set of network components such as but not limited to user equipment customer premises equipment or network servers controllers gateways or management components. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. It is noted that context in the subject specification generally distinguishes amongst a base station that provides or is intended to provide primarily outdoor wireless coverage and a facility based access point e.g. femtocell AP that provides or is intended to provide primarily indoor wireless coverage or outdoor wireless coverage within a confined range. Explicit distinction between indoor serving AP and outdoor serving base station is made when context may be insufficient to distinguish the utilized terms.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human agent s or automated component s supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Further yet the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of gateway nodes includes one or more gateway nodes a set of access points includes K access points with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity 1 a set of backhaul links spans one or more backhaul link s etc. In addition as employed herein the term subset can include the empty set unless otherwise noted as in cases in which for instance disclosure of a subset of one or more entities is intended to expressly exclude the empty subset.

Features or aspects described in the subject disclosure can rely at least in part on delivery or reception of directive s indication s request s or the like and information or payload data e.g. content s associated therewith. Directive s can be embodied in multi bit words e.g. P bit words with P a positive integer and coded to specifically convey a request to a particular functional element e.g. a femtocell AP in order to execute one or more specific operation. Information or payload data within signaling and request s or indication s conveyed therein can be embodied for example in one or more reserved bits in a packet header a light payload e.g. of the order of 1 byte data packet a predetermined multi bit word conveyed in a control channel a lightweight file e.g. a cookie an email communication an instant message or the like. In addition directive s request s indication s or the like as described herein can be delivered in accordance with various communication protocols. As an example the various protocols can include at least one of file transfer protocol FTP secure shell FTP SFTP FTP over secure socket layer FTPS short message service SMS protocol multimedia messaging service MMS protocol unstructured supplementary service data USSD standard simple network management protocol SNMP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP session initiation protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Open Mobile Alliance OMA device management DM protocol Technical Report 069 TR 069 protocol also referred to as Customer Premise Equipment CPE Wide Area Network WAN Management Protocol or CWMP or the like.

While aspects or features of the subject disclosure are illustrated in terms of applicability to femtocell access points such aspects and features are also applicable to and can be exploited in other radio access points such as Wi Fi APs picocell base station microcell base stations or the like which may provide greater radio access capacity.

Various illustrative scenarios are set forth herein to represent example operational environments that exploit one or more features of femtocell service preservation through secondary connections as described herein and reveal the utility of such one or more features. The various illustrative scenarios are of course not exhaustive of the multiple operational environments in which the one or more features described in the subject disclosure can be exploited. In addition the various illustrative scenarios and related examples are intended to be non limiting without restricting the applicability or utility of the various embodiments of systems and methods described herein or any modification or variations thereof. Various scenarios or embodiments of systems and apparatuses wireless equipment servers confined coverage APs etc. are presented in terms of systems that may include a number of devices components modules and the like. However it is to be understood and appreciated that the various of the described systems and apparatuses may include additional devices components modules etc. or may not include all of the devices components modules etc. discussed in connection with the annexed drawings. A combination of these approaches to present the various scenarios or embodiments of the subject disclosure also can be used.

With respect to the drawings illustrates a schematic deployment of macrocells and femtocells for wireless service coverage in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure. In wireless environment two areas represent macrocell macro coverage each macrocell is served by a base station which includes a set of one or more antennas and various equipment or apparatuses that enable operation of the base station . It should be appreciated that macrocells are illustrated as hexagons however macrocells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by the deployment or floor plan geographic areas to be covered e.g. a metropolitan statistical area MSA or rural statistical area RSA and so on. Macro coverage is generally intended to serve mobile wireless devices like UE in primarily outdoor locations. An over the air wireless link provides such coverage the wireless link comprises a downlink DL and an uplink UL and utilizes a predetermined band of the radio frequency RF spectrum. As an example UE can be a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS mobile phone. It is noted that a base station its associated electronics circuitry or components and a wireless link operated in accordance to the base station form a radio access network RAN . In addition base station communicates with macro network platform via backhaul link s through one or more components e.g. radio network controller s aggregator component s . . . that are part of access network s aspects and deployment of the one or more components are dictated by the underlying radio technology employed for telecommunication. In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM macro network platform represents a core network CN . In an aspect macro network platform controls a set of base stations that serve either respective cells or a number of sectors within such cells. Macro network platform also communicates with other base stations not shown that serve other cells not shown . Backhaul link s can include a wired backbone link e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric ADSL or a coaxial cable . . . . Backhaul pipe s link disparate base stations .

In wireless environment within one or more macrocells a set of femtocells served by respective femtocell femto access points APs can be deployed in the subject disclosure femtocell is also referred to as confined coverage area . While in illustrative wireless environment three femtocells are deployed per macrocell aspects of the subject innovation are geared to femtocell deployments with substantive femto AP density e.g. 10 10femto APs per base stations . A femtocell typically covers an area that includes confined area which is determined at least in part by transmission power allocated to femto AP path loss shadowing and so forth. While coverage area associated with femtocell and confined area typically coincide it should be appreciated that in certain deployment scenarios confined coverage area can include an outdoor portion e.g. a parking lot a patio deck a recreation area such as a swimming pool and nearby space while area spans an enclosed living space or residence space. The coverage area associated with femtocell typically is spanned by a coverage radius or coverage range that ranges from 20 to 100 meters. The confined coverage area can encompass a setting that can span about 5000 sq. ft. and can include a residential dwelling such as a single family home or an apartment a business space e.g. a hotel an enterprise place of operation a factory an entertainment area which can include bars night clubs or the like a worship area such as a church or mosque an educational facility which can include open and semi open spaces as it may be the case in a college campus a wellness area e.g. a health club a hospital or nursing home etc. and access to wireless service typically is regulated. In addition or in the alternative instead of being stationary the confined coverage area can be mobile for example it can be part of a vehicle a car an elevator an aircraft a vessel etc. . It should be noted that the confined coverage area is substantially smaller e.g. 1 3 orders of magnitude smaller than a macrocell .

In the subject disclosure a confined coverage area such as confined coverage area embodies a confined wireless environment which as indicated supra can include indoor space outdoor space or a combination thereof. In addition femtocell AP e.g. or any other type of access point e.g. Wi Fi AP picocell AP that serves the confined coverage area e.g. is referred to as confined coverage AP to denote that such an AP provides wireless service coverage to a confined wireless environment. Moreover a confined coverage AP transmits electromagnetic radiation e.g. radiates at lower power than a base station intended for outdoor coverage and that serves a macrocell. In an aspect a confined coverage AP e.g. femtocell AP picocell Wi Fi AP that serves the confined coverage area e.g. can be deployed within the indoor space e.g. within a building or structure that the AP serves outdoor space that is part of the confined coverage area e.g. confined coverage area also is served by the AP. In yet another aspect a confined coverage AP that serves the confined coverage area e.g. can be deployed in the outdoor space that the AP serves in certain deployments the AP can be mounted on or attached to non residential structure present in the outdoor space that is part of the confined area. A confined coverage area e.g. confined coverage area referred to in the subject disclosure is owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the AP that serves the confined coverage area where the AP is deployed as part of structure mobile or stationary within the confined coverage area.

A femto AP typically serves a few for example 1 5 wireless devices e.g. subscriber station within confined coverage area via a wireless links which encompasses a downlink DL and an uplink UL . A femto network platform can control such service in addition to mobility handover from macro to femto handover and vice versa and registration and provisioning of femto APs. Control or management is facilitated by backhaul link s that connect deployed femto APs with femto network platform through one or more components of access network s . The one or more components can include a network interface device NID a gateway node a digital subscriber line DSL access multiplexer DSLAM or the like. In addition the one or more components of access network s can be functionally coupled to an access aggregator node which can be embodied in a broadband remote access server B RAS such aggregator node generally is functionally coupled to a femtocell gateway node not shown deployed e.g. installed configured and active within femto network platform . Backhaul pipe s are substantially the same as backhaul link s . In UMTS based radio technology backhaul link is embodied at least in part in Iuh interface.

In an aspect of the subject innovation part of the control effected by femto AP is based on measurements of radio link conditions and other performance metrics. Femto network platform also includes components e.g. nodes gateways and interfaces that facilitates packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP traffic and signaling generation for networked telecommunication. It should be appreciated that femto network platform can be femto AP can integrate seamlessly with substantially any packet switched PS based and circuit switched CS based network such as macro network platform . Thus operation with a wireless device such as is substantially straightforward and seamless when handover from femto to macro or vice versa takes place. As an example femto AP can integrate into an existing 3GPP Core Network via conventional interfaces or reference links such as Iu CS Iu PS Gi or Gn. In addition femto AP can serve a mobile device that operates in accordance with 3GPP radio technology ies without dedicated functionality such as Wi Fi transceivers.

It is to be noted that substantially all voice or data active sessions associated with subscribers within femtocell wireless coverage e.g. confined coverage area are terminated once the femto AP is shut down in case of data sessions data can be recovered at least in part through a buffer e.g. a memory associated with a femto gateway at the femto network platform. Coverage of a suspended or hotlined subscriber station or associated account can be blocked over the air interface. However if a suspended or hotlined customer who owns a femto AP is in Hotline Suspend status there is no substantive impact to the customers covered through the subject femto AP . In another aspect femto AP can exploit high speed downlink packet access either via an interface with macro network platform or through femto network platform in order to accomplish substantive bitrates.

In addition in yet another aspect femto AP has cell identifier s e.g. in UMTS based radio technology a LAC location area code or a RAC routing area code that is different from the underlying macro network. It should be appreciated that in macro networks cell identifiers IDs such as LAC and RAC are reused over several base stations or Node Bs and large areas so location information or intelligence accuracy and attachment procedure s e.g. Location Area Update LAU or Routing Area Update RAU frequency are relatively low. It should be noted that based at least in part on radio technology deployment for macro networks cell ID reuse granularity may differ wherein radio technologies with distributed processing and more signaling capacity may afford more granular cell ID e.g. LAC and RAC assignments.

Femto LAC and RAC are used to identify subscriber station location for a variety of reasons most notably to direct incoming voice and data traffic to appropriate paging transmitters and emergency calls as well. As a subscriber station e.g. UE that exploits macro coverage e.g. macrocell enters femto coverage e.g. confined coverage area the subscriber station e.g. UE attempts to attach to the femto AP through transmission and reception of attachment signaling. The signaling is effected via wireless links DL UL in an aspect of the subject innovation the attachment signaling can include a Location Area Update LAU or Routing Area Update RAU . As an example of attachment procedure and mechanism s associated therewith UMTS handsets monitor network pilots e.g. generated through a femtocell or femtocell AP while in the idle mode each pilot includes LAC and or RAC. As a subscriber station moves between pilots e.g. moves within a macro sector and reaches vicinity of a femtocell the subscriber station probes for a change in LAC or RAC. When a change in LAC or RAC is detected the subscriber station performs LAU and or RAU so mobile network s becomes aware of subscriber station location in order to properly route incoming call pages. Attachment attempts are thus a part of procedures to ensure mobility so voice calls and data sessions can be initiated even after a macro to femto transition or vice versa.

It is to be noted that UE can be employed seamlessly after either of the foregoing transitions. In addition femto networks typically are designed to serve stationary or slow moving traffic with reduced signaling loads compared to macro networks. A service provider network e.g. an entity that commercializes deploys or utilizes femto access points and macro base stations is therefore inclined to minimize unnecessary LAU RAU signaling activity at substantially any opportunity to do so and through substantially any available means. It is to be noted that substantially any mitigation of unnecessary attachment signaling control is advantageous for femtocell or femtocell AP operation. Conversely if not successful UE is generally commanded through a variety of communication means to select another LAC RAC or enter emergency calls only mode. It is to be appreciated that this attempt and handling process can occupy significant UE battery and femto AP capacity and signaling resources e.g. communication of pilot sequences as well.

When an attachment attempt is successful UE is allowed on femtocell and incoming voice and data traffic are paged and routed to the subscriber through the femto AP . To facilitate voice and data routing and control signaling as well successful attachment can be recorded in a memory register e.g. a Visited Location Register VLR or substantially any data structure stored in a network memory. It is to be noted also that packet communication e.g. voice and data traffic and signaling typically paged routed through a backhaul broadband wired network backbone e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line s T3 phone line s digital level zero line DS digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL a coaxial cable . . . . To this end femto AP is typically connected to the broadband backhaul network backbone via a broadband modem not shown or more generally a local gateway node see e.g. . In an aspect of the subject innovation femto AP can display status indicators for power active broadband DSL connection gateway connection and generic or specific malfunction. In another aspect no landline is necessary for femto AP operation.

In certain embodiments such as example embodiment UE includes a radio interface that enables wireless communication with AP via wireless link s . Wireless link s can have the same or substantially the same functional features as wireless links thus wireless link s can include an UL and a DL. Wireless link s also can include point to point radio link s such as Bluetooth link s . The radio interface comprises one or more antenna s functionally coupled to a communication platform . Wherein as described hereinafter in connection with the one or more antennas s can receive and transmit wireless signal s and the communication platform can process encode decode multiplex demultiplex etc. such wireless signal s for transmission from UE or for reception and utilization by UE . Antenna s also include circuitry for filtering amplification and other suitable manipulation of collected or transmitted wireless signal s . Radio interface enables exchange of wireless signal s and related payload data encoded therein amongst AP and UE in order for UE to attach to AP .

In scenarios of particular though not exclusive relevance to the subject disclosure such as those illustrated in access point is a confined coverage AP femtocell AP picocell AP Wi Fi AP etc. that operates at least in part in accordance with aspects described herein in connection with APs that provide wireless service to confined areas . As described supra a confined coverage AP is a low power AP e.g. the confined coverage AP radiates at a transmitted power that is about one or more orders of magnitude smaller that power transmitted by a macrocell base stationt. In addition and in contrast to macrocell base stations which are public a confined coverage AP is private or semi private e.g. the confined coverage AP is owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the confined area served by the confined coverage AP. In typical scenarios a confined coverage AP is deployed as part of structure within the confined area served by the confined coverage AP. Since a confined coverage AP provides wireless coverage that is private or semi private attachment of UE to a confined coverage AP generally is regulated in accordance with at least one access control protocol or procedure . In cases access point is a confined coverage AP and UE is deemed adequate for attachment to such confined coverage AP based at least on the at least one access control protocol UE camps on AP e.g. UE executes a configuration procedure that enables it to consume wireless service through the confined coverage AP .

After camping in AP which in example system is a confined coverage AP UE can consume wireless service at least in part through a radio interface e.g. and wireless link s which functionally couple e.g. communicatively couple the UE to the AP . To consume wireless service UE directly or indirectly exchanges data and signaling with other device s or network platform . While UE is pictorially represented with a smartphone it should be appreciated that UE is not limited to such particular mobile device. UE can be any mobile device e.g. cellphone laptop computer with wireless connectivity card netbook digital video recorder DVR . . . that utilizes wireless network resources electromagnetic spectrum carriers or bandwidth telecommunication channels etc. to telecommunicate voice or data. In certain embodiments UE can be a wearable device with enabled wireless capability that is attached to a subscriber s garment or gear goggles helmet etc. or is mounted on a subscriber s body part.

To provide wireless service e.g. wireless delivery and reception of data and signaling to UE in a scenario in which AP is a confined coverage AP access point is functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled to a local gateway gty node via link s . It is noted that in the subject disclosure when referring to an example system apparatus or device open arrows and associated connecting segments represent link s or interface s that functionally couple components APs servers nodes or the like that in the illustrated example embodiment s generally are not integrated into a single functional element. However in alternative embodiments some of such components servers nodes or the like may be integrated into a single functional element. In contrast solid arrows and associated connecting segments represent functionally coupled functional elements components servers APs nodes or the like that in the illustrated example embodiments can be integrated at least in part into a single functional element even though such functional elements are represented as separate entities. In addition AP exploits local gateway node to establish a telecommunication channel to network platform or at least one network node therein via links and and AN . The local gty node is coupled to access network through link s . The telecommunication channel can be a packet based protocol channel such as a virtual private network VPN channel for example and is typically persistent. Thus the telecommunication channel should be maintained functional for the AP which is a confined coverage AP in the subject scenario and served wireless equipment to access wireless service e.g. femtocell service . In an aspect link s can be embodied in at least one wired link or at least one wireless link. In one or more embodiments link s is a single wired link functionally attached e.g. with active transmission of signal s to local home gateway node . Access network is functionally coupled to network platform via link s and at least one network gateway node not shown . In an aspect access network is part of access network s and accordingly access network can be embodied and can operate in substantially the same manner as an access network that is part of access network s . Link s and link s can be embodied and can operate in substantially the same manner as a link in the set of femto backhaul link s . In one or more embodiments local gateway node is a DSL modem or a cable modem. In alternative or additional embodiments local gateway node is a network interface device NID . Local gateway node can be distinguished from a network gateway node at least as follows. The local gateway node is embodied in customer premises equipment CPE that serve as a data and control gateway to the network platform from at least a portion of the confined area served by AP whereas the network gateway node is not embodied in CPE but resides within network platform .

Additionally in response to camping in AP which in example system is a confined coverage AP UE initiates a management OTA MOTA session automatically. The MOTA session allows at least in part UE to acquire receive request retrieve etc. content specific thereto and related to operation thereof from MOTA server s . Such content is germane to at least one feature of UE where the at least one feature includes a hardware feature a software feature a security feature an access clearance feature a location feature or a combination thereof. In certain embodiments to initiate the MOTA session automatically UE can operate as follows. UE determines if an identifier ID code e.g. LAC of access point is within a range of ID codes specific to confined coverage APs a network operator that administers AP and provides related wireless service can define such range. In an aspect to conduct the determination UE can compare the ID code of AP received as part of attachment thereto with values of ID codes assigned to confined coverage APs wherein such values embody the range indicated supra and can be retained in memory that is part of UE or functionally coupled thereto. In case the outcome of the determination is negative e.g. the comparison of the ID code of AP with the range of ID codes assigned to confined coverage APs reveals that AP is not a confined coverage AP UE continues operation without automatic MOTA. In the alternative in case outcome of the determination is affirmative the AP is recognized as a confined coverage AP. In response to recognition of AP as a confined coverage AP femtocell AP picocell AP Wi Fi AP etc. UE can configure e.g. generate define encode . . . a variable that conveys attachment to a confined coverage AP the variable can be alphanumeric logical or numeric and is indicative of attachment condition or presence condition and thus the variable can be referred to as a confined coverage presence indicator. As an example the variable can be labeled femto presence and it can be set to a TRUE value as a result of recognition of AP as a confined coverage AP. In one or more scenarios after the confined coverage presence indicator is configured to disclose UE is camped in a confined coverage AP UE can associate a specific alphanumeric tag A tag to the confined coverage presence indicator and display the alphanumeric tag which can be linked in a one to one relationship for example to the ID code of AP . In example embodiment an attachment component enables UE to determine if AP is a confined coverage AP. In an aspect attachment component can perform such determination in accordance with aspects described supra. Attachment component can exploit a set of one or more range s of AP ID codes e.g. set retained in memory . Moreover attachment component can configure the confined coverage presence indicator as described herein.

As part of the MOTA disclosed herein recognition of AP as a confined coverage AP also leads UE to a execute an application that consumes a MOTA service which can be hosted by MOTA server in network platform and b connect to the MOTA server . Connection to the MOTA server can occur in response to execution of such application. As part of connection to the MOTA server UE can establish at least one Packet Data Protocol PDP context that serves in part as a packet based tunnel connection from UE to the MOTA server . In an embodiment e.g. example embodiment attachment component enables UE to execute the application that consumes the MOTA service. In an aspect attachment component can signal e.g. convey a directive to processor s to execute such application wherein the application can be retained in application app. storage . In an additional or alternative aspect attachment component can signal an update driver component also referred to as update driver to execute such application. In an illustrative scenario termed herein the firmware scenario update driver can include a portion of processor s e.g. at least one processor that is part of processor s update driver executes the application via the at least one processor. Moreover in example embodiment update driver can establish the PDP context and thus connect UE or enable UE to connect to the MOTA server . Execution of the application that consumes the MOTA service can control the operation of update driver component in accordance with aspects described herein. Furthermore with respect to MOTA server in one or more embodiments thereof such as example embodiment a connectivity component can exchange one or more messages with UE in order to connect thereto e.g. establish a PDP context associated with UE . In an aspect connectivity component can exploit peripheral interface to functionally couple to a network node e.g. gateway node s or to at least one link in order to communicate with UE and establish the PDP context or substantially any packet based protocol tunnel e.g. a VPN tunnel such as IPSec tunnel or GPRS tunnel . In a related aspect peripheral interface also can allow connection of MOTA server to various network nodes or devices. Peripheral interface can include a set of ports which comprises at least one of parallel port s serial port s Ethernet port s V.35 ports X.21 ports wherein parallel ports can comprise General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB IEEE 1284 while serial ports can include Recommended Standard RS 232 V.11 Universal Serial Bus USB FireWire or IEEE 1394. Peripheral interface also can include other types of input output I O interface s that enable at least in part networked communication.

Content that can be managed OTA in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure and that is related to operation of UE can be related to ensuring performance integrity or improving performance of the UE . Thus a MOTA session initiated automatically as described supra can be referred to as a fix OTA FOTA session. In an illustrative scenario the content can be a software SW application or a SW component associated with the SW application. For example the SW application can be a system SW application such as an operating system OS a firewall or the like whereas the related SW component can be a configuration file a library a class an object a module and so forth. Moreover in such illustrative scenario the MOTA session can enable the UE to update the SW application or the related SW component s . As an illustration the related SW component s can be associated with dependencies modules libraries data structures etc. of the SW application. To at least that end as part of implementation of a MOTA session UE can convey an indication of equipment identification EID for the UE . Such indication can convey at least one EID code or token that characterizes hardware of UE . Substantially any EID code can be employed after the MOTA server or a component therein has been configured to recognize the at least one EID code or token. As an example various EID codes or tokens can include an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI an MDN a Telecommunications Industry Association TIA Electronic Serial Number ESN such as User Identity Module Identifier UIMID or Expande UIMID or a multi bit ID number such as Mobile Equipment Identifier MEID or the like. In addition to enable update of the SW application or the related SW component s UE conveys an indication of an in use version of the SW application or the related SW component. It is noted that in certain embodiments UE can transmit a single consolidated indication that conveys the indication of EID for UE and the indication of the in use version of the SW application or related SW component s . In example embodiment a version management component also referred to version manager enables UE to convey the indication of EID and the indication of in use version of the SW application or the related SW componenet s . In an aspect version manager generates the indication of EID and supplies such indication to radio interface for delivery to MOTA server . In another aspect version manager generates the indication of in use version of SW application or related SW component s and supplies such indication to radio interface for delivery to MOTA server . In yet another aspect version management component generates such indications and composes the single consolidated indication described supra version manager then conveys the single consolidated indication to radio interface for delivery to MOTA server . Execution of the application that consumes the MOTA service controls operation of version manager in accordance with aspects described herein.

In response to reception e.g. collection collection and decoding . . . of the indication of EID for UE and the indication of the in use version of the SW application or related SW component s MOTA server determines if a version of the SW application or the related SW component s that is newer than the in use version is available. MOTA server performs such determination as part of the MOTA session. In an aspect to perform such determination MOTA server can query a repository accessible e.g. functionally coupled to the MOTA server for a current or last known version of the SW application available for the received EID. Record s of version s of at least one SW application can be retained in memory element s register s file s database s etc. within application storage which also can retain the at least one SW application and related SW component s . The memory element s can embody the set of one or more version record s or version s . Repository can be a centralized element or a distributed element. MOTA server can compare the outcome of the query with the received in use version of the SW application or the related SW component s and based on the comparison determine if such newer version is available. The repository can reside within the FOTA server or it can be functionally coupled thereto and resident within a network platform that contains the MOTA server . For instance in example embodiment memory can embody at least in part repository and app. storage can embody app. storage . The set of one or more version s of SW applications embody in part the set .

In certain embodiments MOTA server can request additional data related to UE in order to establish availability of a newer version of the SW application or related SW component s . For example MOTA server can request data indicative of subscriber type e.g. premium subscriber and based on the subscriber type determined such availability A newer version of an SW application can be available for premium subscribers but nor for regular subscribers. Likewise in an enterprise deployment a newer version of an SW application can be available for a first segment of end users e.g. business end users end users with specific security clearance s . . . within the enterprise but not for a second segment of end users e.g. R D end users IMSI for the for certain subscribers. Moreover availability of an SW application and related SW component s can be based on location of UE within the enterprise.

In a scenario in which MOTA server establishes a newer version of the SW application or the related SW component s is unavailable MOTA server conveys an indication to UE that such newer version is unavailable. In the alternative in a scenario in which server establishes that a newer version of the SW application or the related SW component s is available MOTA server delivers a request for an update instruction to UE . In one or more embodiments of MOTA server e.g. example embodiment a version manager component or version manager enables MOTA server to determine availability of a newer version of a SW application or related SW component s with respect to an in use version conveyed by UE . In an aspect version manager determines such availability in accordance with aspects described supra. Version manager can utilize a device to version dev. to ver. mapping in the set of dev. to ver. mapping s to identify a current or last known version of the SW application of the related SW component s . As illustrated in example embodiment MOTA server can retain in an application app. storage one or more versions of SW application s or related SW component s for a group of wireless equipment. At least one of such version is logically coupled to a WE via at least one mapping in dev. to ver. mapping s . In addition version manager can retain a record of the newer version that the UE is informed to be available the record can be retained in a set of version record s and can serve as content update intelligence.

As part of the MOTA session UE receives e.g. collects decodes the request for an update instruction e.g. a computer executable command and in response generates such instruction. The update instruction indicates whether an update of a SW application or related SW component s is to be accepted or declined. The update instruction can be generated upon or substantially at the time of reception of the request. Alternatively the request can be queued for generation of the update instruction at a time subsequent to reception of the request. In an embodiment e.g. example embodiment update driver can receive the request for the update instruction and can generate the update instruction. In a first example modality UE can generate the update instruction through collection of input data indicative of acceptance e.g. Proceed or rejection Decline of an update of the SW application or the related SW component s such update is referred to as SW update. The source end user disparate equipment etc. of the input data can be external to the UE . In an aspect UE can render a user interface e.g. graphical user interface UI aural UI or a UI that is combination thereof that enables collecting the data. UE can include a display interface e.g. display interface that renders the user interface.

The display interface can include a display component not shown that can convey visual or aural indicia. Various schemes can be employed to render the user interface to convey acceptance or rejection of SW update For example windows based schemes e.g. iconic representation pop up representation or text based representation s with scroll down or scroll sideways delivery or static rendering. Based on complexity of the UE for example the display component not shown can be embodied at least in part in various types of displays e.g. a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a Liquid Crystal Display LCD monitor a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor an electrochromic monitor or the like. The display component not shown also can enable communication of aural indicia for example via speaker s .

The display interface not shown can enable entry of data that determined an update of content is to be accepted or declined. In addition in example embodiment the display interface not shown can collect entry of data through a data entry component not shown that can enable UE to receive external commands or configuration information. The display interface can process e.g. decode code at least in part received input data and can convey it as signaling to one or more functional elements component s platform s etc. or memory within UE . To mitigate fraudulent transaction s entry of data can be secured through various credential based mechanisms such as password protection biometric protection or the like and an associated secured transport protocol s that can include data encryption. In an aspect one or more sets of code instructions that can be executed to implement such credential based mechanisms can be retained within the application storage .

In a second example modality of generation of an update instruction UE can generate the update instruction automatically without end user intervention by analyzing at least one operation condition of the UE and based on the related analysis assessing whether a download is feasible e.g. it can be completed successfully . The at least one operation condition can include for example an amount of radio resources scheduled traffic bandwidth channels etc. available to the UE or an amount of processing resources scheduled tasks processor load available memory etc. available to UE for usage. The at least operation condition also can include telecommunication performance of the UE and related key performance indicators KPIs such as rate of data packet loss rate of call session loss time interval for call session establishment data rate or the like. If a download is feasible then UE sets the update instruction to indicate acceptance e.g. Proceed of the SW update. In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment update driver can implement the foregoing analysis and assessment and generate the update instruction based on an outcome of the analysis and assessment. In an aspect update driver or component s therein can evaluate the at least operating condition of the UE and determine whether a download is feasible by gauging an outcome of such evaluation with a group of performance thresholds related to the KPIs for UE . Update driver also can report outcome s of an evaluation operating condition s e.g. update driver can deliver or store data that records such performance. A performance threshold in the group of performance thresholds can be specific to radio resource availability processing availability data and signal transport quality connection reliability etc. The performance thresholds can be predetermined either statically or dynamically and can be retained in a memory element register database file etc. not shown within memory . Moreover a performance threshold can be specific to the UE which enables application of disparate criteria for download feasibility for disparate wireless equipment. For example a mobile device of a subscriber of telecommunication carrier that provides wireless service via a femto AP e.g. AP can have lower performance thresholds if related directly to the owner or lessee of the femto AP than in case the subscriber is not directly related to the owner or lessee.

It is noted that a modality of generation of the update instruction that arises from combination of two or more of the foregoing example modalities is also possible.

In case an update instruction indicates a SW update is accepted or is to be performed UE requests e.g. delivers a query or a command MOTA server to transfer at least one file related to the newer version of the SW application or the related SW component s . In an embodiment such as example embodiment update driver can generate and deliver a command e.g. computer executable instruction that requests MOTA server to transfer the at least one file. The at least one file and payload data therein can convey the SW application source code executable code etc. or the related SW component s one or more of a library a class an object a module etc. . MOTA server receives the request and in response thereto delivers the at least one file related to the newer version of SW application or the related SW component s to UE . UE receives collects decodes etc. the at least one file and implements the SW update. To implement the SW update UE commits e.g. stores or causes to store the at least one file. In an example UE stores the at least one file in a memory functionally coupled thereto e.g. memory in example embodiment and processes the at least one file to cause the newer version of the SW application or the related SW component s to be suitable for consumption by the mobile device. In an aspect UE processes the at least one file in accordance with the type s of the at least one file For an executable file UE can point to a new memory address in the memory for execution of the at least one file. For a file that conveys a library or other type of SW component associated with the SW application UE can link an extant executable instance of the SW application to the library or the other type of SW component. For a file that includes source code or computer executable programming instructions UE can compile and link the at least one file and generate an executable instance of the SW application based on the compiled and linked file. Moreover in an aspect as part of committing the at least one file UE can update a version data structure relational table data tree file system etc. or at least one record thereof. The version data structure maintains a version record of the SW application or SW component s related thereto. The version data structure also can maintain record s of dependencies of the SW application with disparate SW component s . A set of one or more version data structure s can be retained in a set of one or more memory elements register s file s databases etc. within memory .

Additionally as part of implementation of the SW update UE terminates the MOTA session initiated in response to camping in the confined coverage AP and restarts or reboots with the newer version of the of SW application or the related SW component s . It should be appreciated that the termination of the MOTA session can be part of the restart procedure. In various embodiments of UE such as example embodiment update driver can enable UE to implement the SW update. In an aspect update driver implements at least in part the SW update.

As illustrated in embodiment in UE includes processor s that can be configured to enable or that can enable at least in part functionality of substantially any or any component s platform s interface s node s and so forth within UE in accordance with aspects of operation thereof as described herein. Bus functionally couples processor s to each functional element within UE and to memory the bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus a power bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In example embodiment processor s are illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s platform s node s of UE however in additional or alternative embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of two or more of such functional elements. In alternative or additional embodiment s one or more functional elements of UE can reside within memory as one or more sets of computer executable instructions that in response to execution by processor s implement the various functional elements and described functionality thereof.

Processor s also can supply information to and retrieve information from memory . Such information can enable at least in part operation of or can provide at least in part functionality to the various functional element s of UE . The information can include at least one of computer executable instructions e.g. computer executable programming code computer executable programming code structure s data structures or the like.

Additionally processor s can execute computer executable instructions not shown stored in memory for example within application storage in order to provide at least in part the described functionality of UE . The computer executable instructions also can resided within other memory ies e.g. removable memory card s functionally coupled to UE . Such computer executable instructions e.g. computer executable programming code can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that implement at least in part various methods described in the subject disclosure.

Memory also can retain at least in part in the application storage or in data storage at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata computer executable programming code structure s e.g. modules procedures or computer executable programming code instructions or substantially any type of software application s or firmware application s that processor s can execute to enable at least in part functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s of UE in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition memory can store within data storage for example network or device information such as one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s code sequences for scrambling or spreading blind decoding hypotheses semi persistent scheduling parameters frequency offsets macrocell base station identifiers and femtocell AP identifiers IDs address book s or the like. Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data.

Memory can include non removable or removable elements such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM . In one or more embodiments or scenarios at least a portion of memory and content thereof can be external to UE and linked thereto via peripheral interface not shown .

As indicated supra UE exploits communication platform that is part of a radio interface to communicate wirelessly with at least AP which is a confined coverage AP . In general wireless equipment that communicates with AP and operates in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure includes communication platform s that operate in substantially the same manner as configuration platform . is a block diagram of an example embodiment of a communication platform in accordance with aspects described herein. Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that enable processing and manipulation e.g. coding decoding deciphering modulation demodulation of signal s received by UE and signal s to be transmitted by UE received or transmitted signal s are modulated and coded or otherwise processed in accordance with various radio technology protocols e.g. 3GPP UMTS 3GPP LTE . . . . Communication platform can operate in accordance with a configurable set of radio technologies or communication protocols thereof procedures that when executed for example by a processor implement such communication protocols can be retained in memory . As new radio technologies become standardized or available a network operator that provides telecommunication service via femtocell network can introduce such technologies in the set of radio technologies that can be utilized for telecommunication through a femto AP embodied in AP in certain scenarios deployed in a confined coverage area.

Components or functional elements in communication platform exchange information through a bus information includes data code instructions signaling and related payload data or the like and the bus can be embodied in at least one of a system bus and address bus a data bus a message bus or a reference link or interface. The electronic components and circuitry can include receiver s transmitter s and component s therein a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component a modulator demodulator component a coder decoder and a set of one or more chipsets e.g. multimode chipset s .

Receiver s transmitter s can can convert signal s from analog to digital upon or shortly after reception and from digital to analog upon or shortly before transmission. Signals that are received or converted to be transmitted have wavelengths in the radiofrequency microwave or infrared portion of the EM spectrum. Such wavelengths can be grouped in a set of carrier bands. In an aspect the set of EM radiation carrier bands can include at least one of i all or substantially all licensed EM carrier bands or ii all or substantially all unlicensed carrier bands currently available for telecommunication. It is noted that the set of carrier bands is configurable and can be upgraded to incorporate carrier bands as such bands become available for telecommunication e.g. auctioned for utilization or authorized for free of charge utilization. In an embodiment a server in network platform e.g. provisioning server that is part of OSS BSS can enable configuration of the set of EM carrier bands.

Receiver s transmitter s also can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation such operations are typically conducted in various multiplexing schemes. In addition based upon antenna structure e.g. antenna s not shown in and radio telecommunication protocol receiver s transmitter s can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. At communication platform signals that are received or converted to be transmitted can have wavelengths in the visible to microwave portion of the EM spectrum. Wavelengths of EM radiation manipulated e.g. received transmitted or processed by communication platform can be determined at least in part by a network administrator that deploys a wireless network that enables communication of access point s with wireless equipment configured to utilize communication platform .

In communication platform functionally coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer component that enables manipulation in time and frequency domain of received signal s or signal s to be transmitted via a radio telecommunication interface such as radio interface not shown in . Electronic mux demux component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition based on telecommunication protocol employed for radio telecommunication mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK and the like. Mod demod component also can demodulate information processed in accordance with the foregoing modulation techniques. In example embodiment mod demod component is functionally coupled to mux demux component via bus . In an aspect processor s can enable at least in part UE to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Communication platform also includes a coder decoder that operates on data in accordance with one or more coding decoding schemes suitable for communication at least in part through receivers s transmitter s . In an aspect the coding decoding schemes or related procedures can be retained as a group of one or more code instructions in memory . Coder decoder can process signal s code signal s decode signal s compress decompress signal s encrypt decrypt signal s extrapolate or interpolate etc. that are received or that are to be transmitted in accordance with a radio telecommunication protocol. In an aspect decoding can be based at least in part on blind decoding of received signal s computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximum likelihood ML estimation minimum mean square equalization MMSE zero forcing ZF filtering or maximal ratio combining MRC filtering. In another aspect when communication through radio interface exploits multiple input multiple output MIMO multiple input single output MISO single input multiple output SIMO or single input single output SISO operation coder decoder can implement at least one of space time block coding STBC and associated decoding or space frequency block SFBC coding and associated decoding. Coder decoder also can extract information from data streams coded in accordance with spatial multiplexing scheme. In addition to operate in the manner described herein coder decoder can employ at least in part mux demux component and mod demod component .

Multimode chipset s can enable communication platform to operate in multiple communication modes through various radio network technologies e.g. second generation 2G third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or deep space satellite based communication in accordance with disparate technical specifications or standard protocols for the radio network technologies or satellite communication. The various radio network technologies can be part of the set of radio technologies described supra. In an aspect multimode chipset s can enable at least in part communication platform to operate in accordance with standard protocols specific to a telecommunication mode of operation e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE based communication. In another aspect multimode chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently in various modes or within a multitask paradigm in which the multimode chipset s operates in a dedicated mode for a specific time interval.

Functional elements e.g. component s coder decoder receiver s transmitter s in communication platform or functionally coupled thereto are functionally connected via bus . Bus enables exchange of data signaling or any other information amongst the functional elements connected through such bus. In an aspect bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or any other conduit protocol or mechanism for data or information exchange among components that execute a process or are part of execution of a process. In addition bus can include a power bus.

With respect to example embodiment illustrated in MOTA server includes processor s that can be configured to enable or that can enable at least in part functionality of substantially any or any component s platform s interface s node s and so forth within MOTA server in accordance with aspects of operation thereof as described herein. Bus functionally couples processor s to each functional element within MOTA server and to memory the bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus a power bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In example embodiment processor s are illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s of MOTA server however in additional or alternative embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of two or more of such functional elements. In further alternative or additional embodiment s one or more functional elements of MOTA server can reside within memory as one or more sets of computer executable instructions that in response to execution by processor s implement the various functional elements and described functionality thereof.

Processor s also can supply information to and retrieve information from memory . Such information can enable at least in part operation of or can provide at least in part functionality to the various functional element s of MOTA server . The information can include at least one of computer executable instructions e.g. computer executable programming code computer executable programming code structure s data structures or the like.

Additionally processor s can execute computer executable instructions not shown stored in memory for example within application storage in order to provide at least in part the described functionality of MOTA server . The computer executable instructions also can reside within other memory ies e.g. a consolidate network repository within network platform or repository functionally coupled to MOTA server . Such computer executable instructions e.g. computer executable programming code can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that implement at least in part various methods described in the subject disclosure.

Memory also can retain at least in part in the application storage or in data storage not shown at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata computer executable programming code structure s e.g. modules procedures or computer executable programming code instructions or substantially any type of software application s or firmware application s that processor s can execute to enable at least in part functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s of MOTA server in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition memory can store within data storage not shown for example network information such as authentication protocol s billing information subscriber information including service profile s or the like. Moreover memory can retain subscriber generated data.

Additionally to enable exchange of data and signaling amongst wireless equipment e.g. UE and a network platform e.g. network platform femto AP includes a peripheral interface . Such exchange is part of wireless service enabled by femto AP . Peripheral interface via e.g. an Ethernet port therein enables connection of femto AP to a local gateway node e.g. . To at least such end peripheral interface includes at least one set of ports. Connection of femto AP to the local gateway node e.g. can lead femto AP to establish automatically a connection with a network gateway node in network platform . Peripheral interface also enables connection to a peripheral device and communication therewith. As an example peripheral interface can allow connection of an external antenna to receive global navigation data e.g. global positioning system GPS data the antenna can reside in an outer location of a confined area served by femto AP so the antenna is exposed to open sky. As another example peripheral interface can enable connection of femto AP to disparate femto AP s . Peripheral interface can include a set of ports which comprises at least one of parallel port s serial port s Ethernet port s V.35 ports X.21 ports wherein parallel ports can comprise General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB IEEE 1284 while serial ports can include Recommended Standard RS 232 V.11 Universal Serial Bus USB FireWire or IEEE 1394.

As described supra a confined coverage AP such as femto AP generally provides wireless coverage that is private or semi private. Accordingly attachment of wireless equipment e.g. UE not shown in to the confined coverage AP generally is regulated in accordance with at least one access control procedure. Femto AP includes attachment component which can implement e.g. executes an access control procedure. The access control procedure can be retained as part of a set of attachment protocol s stored in one or more memory element s register s database file s etc. in memory . As part of the access control procedure attachment component exchanges identifier ID codes with wireless equipments that attempts attachment femto AP . Thus femto AP can supply identification credentials to the wireless equipment and vice versa. The access control procedure can exploit at least a portion of such identification credentials to regulate access to femto AP namely to control wireless equipment that can camp on femto AP . In an aspect the access control procedure can be based at least in part on a group of one or more access control list s . The group of one or more access control list s can be retained in one or more memory element s register s database file s etc. in memory .

An access control list ACL enables at least in part regulation of access to wireless service supplied through femto AP and features of supplied wireless service. To at least that end an ACL can comprise a set of access attributes which identify devices that can communicate wirelessly and are authorized to receive telecommunication service through femto AP . An access attribute uniquely identifies a device. An owner or lessee of a femtocell femto AP can determine access attributes to be recorded in or removed from an access control list ACL associated with the femto AP. In certain alternative scenarios based on service agreement with the owner or lessee or the femto AP a telecommunication carrier that provides wireless service through the femto AP also can determine access attributes associated with the access control list. Determination of records to be entered or removed from an ACL can be effected dynamically and automatically based on a set of predetermined rules. For instance based on service agreement the ACL can be updated to include a WE identifier of a mobile device of a subscriber of the telecommunication carrier that provides wireless service through the femto AP. Accordingly when the mobile device attaches to the femto AP the mobile device can be recognized to be a mobile device of a subscriber of the telecommunication carrier and be included into the ACL which allows the mobile device to camp in the femto AP and exploit MOTA service as described herein.

As illustrated more than one ACL can be retained in memory however a single ACL can be active at a time in order to regulate access and provide wireless services. Memory also can retain service attributes that control logic for provision of service to a wireless device identified in an ACL. Service attributes can be specific to femto AP . The logic for provision of service can establish at least one of the following features i Supplied service s e.g. voice only service data only service and available applications voice and data service and provided applications associated with the service s . In addition radio technology employed to supply service s also can be set. ii Service priority e.g. ranking of access to radio resources such as radio technology 3G or 4G bandwidth dedicated telecommunication channels. iii Access schedule or time constraints such as time of day considerations or expected duration of provided service. iv Level of service or access quality of service e.g. quality of service QoS profile such as best effort conversational real time. It should be appreciated that service attributes also can determine other service features.

A configuration not shown of service attributes also referred to as a profile of service attributes or access profile is specific to a mobile device identified in an access control list even though it should be noted that a particular configuration of service attributes can display a one to many relationship with identified devices in an ACL. Accordingly specification of a service attribute profile can customize provision of wireless service through femto AP .

An ACL associated with femto AP or any confined coverage AP can enable regulation of access thereto in at least the following manner. If the femto AP which can embody for example AP receives attachment signaling e.g. LAU signaling or RAU signaling in UMTS based radio technology originated by wireless equipment e.g. UE the femto AP validates an identity IMEI MEID IMSI MSN etc. of the wireless equipment against the access control list e.g. ACL s associated with the femto AP. Such identity can be conveyed in the attachment signaling. If validation against the ACL results in no match amongst the identity of the wireless equipment and a device identity retained in the ACL the femto AP rejects the attachment signaling and the device is allowed only to establish emergency calls. In the alternative if the identity of the wireless equipment matches an identifier in the ACL the access control procedure that is based at least in part on the ACL is completed and femto AP allows the wireless equipment to camp thereon and establish call sessions normally.

Femto AP also includes connectivity manager . For wireless equipment e.g. UE camped on femto AP and that implements e.g. executes management OTA of content related to operation of the wireless equipment as described herein connectivity manager can relay data and signaling related to establishment of a connection with a MOTA server e.g. MOTA server in a network platform e.g. network platform . In an aspect as described supra connectivity manager can relay data and signaling associated to establishment of a PDP context with the MOTA server. Connectivity manager can relay data and signaling associated with most any tunnel protocolAs part of relaying data and signaling connectivity manager receives the data or signaling from the wireless equipment via radio interface and conveys the data or signaling to the MOTA server not shown through in part peripheral interface . It should be appreciated that such data or signaling is conveyed indirectly to the MOTA server via a plurality of functional elements deployed as part of link s and AN and at least one network node.

In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment femto AP also can include a cache component . For each wireless equipment in a set of wireless equipment the cache component can access a MOTA server e.g. MOTA server and collect data indicative of a current version of content related to operation of the wireless equipment. Cache component can access the MOTA server via connectivity manager and peripheral interface . In the alternative or in addition cache component can access the MOTA server via peripheral interface without reliance on connectivity manager . In an aspect the set of wireless equipment can be statically configured. For example the set of wireless equipment can include UE included in at least one ACL in ACL s . For another example the set of wireless equipment can be based on subscription data and include UE that is part of a specific subscriber segment e.g. business subscribers premium subscribers etc. or that is served by a particular telecommunication carrier e.g. the telecommunication carrier that provides wireless service via femto AP . In the alternative the set of mobile devices can be established dynamically or quasi statically based at least on historical data related to visitation e.g. attachment to femto AP . In embodiment for example attachment component can record data related to visitation to femto AP over a specific period and categorize UE that attaches to femto AP into a group of segments or types. Data related to visitation to femto AP can be retained in visitation record s within memory . The group of segments can represent various frequencies of visitation or patterns of visitation. For instance a first segment e.g. of Seldom type can represent a group of UE that rarely attach to femto AP whereas a second segment e.g. of Routine type can represent a disparate group of UE that attaches to femto AP frequently. Other segments also can be defined for example a third segment e.g. Indigenous can represent UE that are directly associated with a subscriber e.g. family members room mates that owns or leases the femto AP .

To categorize wireless equipment that attaches to femto AP attachment component can exploit artificial intelligence AI techniques which can be formalized in a methodology that is retained memory . Artificial intelligence techniques typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms or methods to a data set such algorithms or methods are part of the methodology and can include decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning. In particular attachment component or one or more components therein can employ at least one of numerous methods for learning from the data set and then drawing inferences from models formally represented by employed method. Such learning can enable attachment component to predict patterns of visitation and refine a set of wireless equipment segment. As an example the numerous methods for learning can include Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be employed. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed.

Cache component can compare collected data of a current version of content related to operation of the wireless equipment with a version record associated with the content related to operation of the wireless equipment. The version record can be retained in a group of one or more sets of version record s and can convey a version of the content related to operation of the wireless equipment acquired downloaded retrieved received etc. before the date indicative of the current version of the content is collected. Based on the comparison cache component can determine that the current version is newer than the version conveyed by the version record and in response the cache component acquire the content e.g. file s associated with the current version.

Cache component can retain the acquired content associated with the current version in an application cache within memory . In addition after retention of such content cache component can transmit to the MOTA server an indication that the content associated with the current version is available for consumption in femto AP . In an aspect the indication includes payload data indicative of the current version that is available for consumption the wireless equipment for which the content is available and a logical address e.g. internet protocol IP address of the application cache .

Application cache enables at least in part local caching of updated version s of content related to operation of wireless equipment in the set of wireless equipment. In response to an indication of availability of content retained in application cache the MOTA server e.g. MOTA server can activate local caching wherein a cache variable e.g. a logical flag is configured to a value that represents the femto AP and the application cache as a source of updated content for the wireless equipment. Upon or after attachment of WE e.g. UE to femto AP and after the WE is characterized as wireless equipment for which an updated version of content is available and an update of the content is allowed by the WE the MOTA server can analyze the cache variable and determine that local caching is active. In response to local caching being active the MOTA server e.g. MOTA server can direct the wireless equipment e.g. UE to acquire content associated with the updated version of content from the application cache rather than to acquire such content from the MOTA server via backhaul network not shown in . Included in a directive to acquire the content associated with the updated version thereof the MOTA server e.g. MOTA server can deliver a logical address e.g. an IP address of the application cache or memory to the WE e.g. UE which can exploit the logical address to acquire e.g. download such content.

Femto AP also can include a display interface not shown which can render various indicia associated with functions that control operation of femto AP or reveal operation conditions thereof e.g. available connectivity to backhaul broadband network. In addition the display interface not shown can convey information e.g. such as number of currently served mobile devices to an end user. Moreover the display interface not shown can receive one or more directives to render an environment e.g. display a user interface to proceed with an update of content or to decline such update.

Various functional elements and associated circuitry that can embody at least in part data entry component not shown enable data input through one or more gestures e.g. touch speech motion one or more communication protocols. Such functional elements can include a keypad a touch screen a microphone a camera s a bar code reader radio frequency ID RFID reader infrared IR wireless based reader or the like.

In certain embodiments femto AP can include a power supply not shown which can provide power to one or more components or functional elements that operate within femto AP . In an aspect the power supply not shown can be rechargeable e.g. it can be embodied in a rechargeable battery. In addition the power supply not shown can include one or more transformers to achieve power level s that can operate femto AP and component s or functional element s and related circuitry therein. In an aspect the power supply not shown can attach to a conventional power grid to recharge or ensure femto AP is operational the power supply not shown can include input output I O interface s not shown or connector s not shown to functionally attach to the conventional power grid. The power supply not shown also can include an energy conversion component s not shown such as a solar panel or a thermoelectric device or material which can be external or internal to the femto AP in order to provide additional or alternative power resources or autonomy to femto AP .

Femto AP includes processor s that can be configured to enable or that can enable at least in part functionality of substantially any or any component s platform s interface s node s and so forth within femto AP in accordance with at least one aspect of the operation thereof as described herein. Bus functionally couples processor s to each functional element within femto AP and to memory the bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus a power bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In example embodiments and processor s are illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s platform s node s of femto AP however in additional or alternative embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of such functional elements. In some embodiment s one or more functional elements that comprise femto AP can reside within memory as one or more sets of computer executable instructions that that in response to execution by processor s implement the various functional elements and described functionality thereof.

Processor s also can supply information to and retrieve information from memory . Such information can enable at least in part operation of or can provide at least in part functionality to and the various functional element s of femto AP . The information can include at least one of computer executable instructions e.g. computer executable programming code computer executable programming code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s can execute computer executable instructions stored in memory for example within application storage not shown in order to provide at least in part the described functionality of femto AP . The computer executable instructions also can reside within other memory ies e.g. removable memory card s functionally coupled to femto AP . Such computer executable instructions e.g. computer executable programming code can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that implement at least in part various methods described in the subject disclosure.

Memory also can retain at least in part in the foregoing application storage not shown or in data storage at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata computer executable programming code structure s e.g. modules procedures or computer executable programming code instructions or substantially any type of software application s or firmware application s that processor s can execute to enable at least in part functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s within femto AP in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition memory can store network or device information e.g. within data storage not shown such as one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s code sequences for scrambling or spreading blind decoding hypotheses semi persistent scheduling parameters frequency offsets macrocell base station identifiers and femtocell AP identifiers IDs address book s or the like. Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data. Memory also includes access control list s or access list s .

Memory can include non removable or removable elements such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM . In one or more embodiments at least a portion of memory and content thereof can be external to femto AP and linked thereto via peripheral interface .

In example system femto network platform provides in part femtocell wireless service. Femto network platform can serve or exchange traffic and signaling with wireless equipment e.g. UE through access network which is linked to the femto network platform via backhaul link s and a femto AP e.g. AP via at least a local gateway node e.g. local gateway node .

Femto network platform includes component s node s gateway node s interface s server s or platform s that enable both packet switched PS communication e.g. IP based communication frame relay communication ATM communication . . . and generation of control signaling for networked wireless communication. In an aspect femto network platform includes femto gateway node s also referred to as gateway node s which have substantially the same functionality as PS gateway node s in macro network platform . A femto gateway node that is part of femto gateway node s or a PS gateway node that is part of PS gateway node s embodies a network gateway node. Femto gateway node s also can include substantially all or all functionality of serving node s described below. In an aspect disparate femto gateway node s can control or operate disparate sets of deployed femto APs which can includes AP for example . The group of femto gateway node s can be expanded periodically or in accordance with a schedule to improve management e.g. load balancing or other aspects of traffic scheduling and functionality of a set of deployed femto APs. Femto network platform also includes clock layer s which can include the clock strata of network time protocol NTP and thus supply various time based utilities and one or more time records.

Server s have substantially the same functionality as described hereinafter in connection with server s . In an aspect server s can execute multiple application s that provide service e.g. voice and data to wireless devices served through access network and associated femto AP s . Server s also can provide security features to femto network platform . Moreover server s can manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . substantially all packetized flows e.g. IP based flows frame relay based flows ATM based flows . . . the server s generates in addition to data received via interface s reference link s wireless link s various bus architectures etc. from macro network platform . Furthermore server s can provision at least in part femtocell service and exchange signaling and related payload data with one or more network components that effect activation of the femtocell service. Further yet server s also can implement operations and maintenance O M procedures associated with at least one femto AP and one or more functional elements in femto network platform. In one or more scenarios server s can include one or more processors configured to enable or that enable at least in part the functionality of femto network platform or one or more functional elements therein gateway node s clock layer s etc. . To that end the one or more processors in server s can execute one or more sets of computer executable instructions e.g. computer executable programming code stored in memory for example. Server s or the one or more processors therein can exchange data and signaling with various functional elements of femto network platform via bus . In an aspect the bus can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus a power bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . Server s can include at least one MOTA server that operates in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure.

Memory also can retain information relevant to operation of the various components of femto network platform and femtocell service provided to one or more subscribers. For example operational information that can be stored in memory can comprise subscriber intelligence such as physical address es billing preference s and plan s one or more records of incidents contracted services which can include media entertainment gaming or the like maintenance and service records related to femtocell service femtocell configuration including devices authorized for femtocell service and authorized subscribers e.g. access control list s associated with one or more deployed e.g. provisioned and active femto APs service policies such as service priority for a device attached to a deployed femto AP and equipment specifications privacy policies add on features which can include parental controls and so forth. In one or more embodiments as indicate supra memory can retain one or more access control lists that regulate access to femtocell service from wireless equipment e.g. UE .

Femto network platform is functionally coupled e.g. communicatively coupled to macro network platform via interface s . In an aspect interface s can be embodied in at least one of conventional link s e.g. a fiber optic link an Ethernet link a T1 E1 line . . . reference link s e.g. Gi Gn . . . numerous bus architectures or one or more components of an access network or a core network. Macro network platform provides in part macrocell wireless service through circuit switched CS domain services and packet switched PS domain services. In the illustrated example embodiment macro network platform is directly coupled to external network s .

Macro network platform can include one or more functional elements e.g. component s node s gateway node s interface s server s or platform s that enable both packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay asynchronous transfer mode ATM and circuit switched CS traffic e.g. voice and data and control generation for networked communication wireless or otherwise. It should be appreciated that in cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS HSPA 3GPP LTE 3GPP UMTS 3GPP2 UMB macro network platform embodies a core network. PS gateway node s can embody at least part of the PS domain. Functional element within the PS domain can enable exchange of notifications indications and directives in accordance with various networked communication protocols indicated herein including one or more peer to peer transport protocol s . With respect to CS communication macro network platform includes CS gateway node s which can interface CS traffic received from legacy networks such as telephony network s e.g. public switched telephone network PSTN or public land mobile network PLMN or a signaling network e.g. SS7 network such networks can be part of external network s . CS gateway node s also can enable exchange of messaging communications in SMS protocol. In addition CS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate traffic e.g. voice arising from such networks. Moreover CS gateway node s can access mobility or roaming data generated through a SS7 network in response to various mobility events as described herein for instance the mobility data can be stored in a VLR visited location register not shown . Furthermore CS gateway node s can interface CS based traffic or signaling with PS gateway node s . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network CS gateway node s can be embodied at least in part in gateway GPRS support node s GGSN .

In addition to receiving and processing CS based traffic and signaling data PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions with wireless equipment e.g. UE served in part through access network . Data sessions e.g. an incoming call can include traffic exchange with external network s which can be interfaced with macro network platform through PS gateway node s . In an aspect PS gateway node s can generate PDP contexts when a data session is established. For instance PS gateway node s can generate a PDF context that connects UE with a MOTA server that is part of server s . To at least that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can enable packetized communication with disparate wireless network s which can be part of access network s and can include Wi Fi networks femtocell network s macrocell network s and associated radio access network s RAN s based on various radio technologies etc.

Packetized communication can include multiple flows of data that can be generated through server s such as management server s e.g. a provisioning server a MSC or application server s . In an aspect a management server can include a MOTA server that operates in accordance with aspects described herein. It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s PS gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG .

Serving node s can convey various packetized flows of data streams that can be directed to wireless equipment e.g. UE served through a macrocell radio access network RAN such flows can be received through PS gateway node s from server s . In an aspect server s can receive the communication s such as request for data intended to external network s which can include an IMS core or other packet based cores from wireless equipment e.g. UE or network elements. As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN . As another example in a 3GPP LTE network service node s can be embodied in a Mobility Management Entity MME .

Server s can operate in various layers of macro network platform and can execute numerous applications which can include consumer oriented application s such as messaging services location services online gaming wireless banking or system oriented applications e.g. wireless device management scheduling or queuing of network traffic or the like. Such application s either consumer oriented or system oriented can generate sets of packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s for example can include add on features to standard services. Data streams generated by server s can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authentication authorization in accordance with various protocols Kerberos RADIUS Diameter Light Weight Directory Access Protocol LDAP etc. and initiation of a data session and to serving node s for communication to wireless equipment e.g. UE thereafter.

Server s also can effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls of macro network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authentication and authorization procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. In addition server s can implement timing protocols e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP that supply timing framework s for various operation s of macro network platform . Moreover server s can provision services from external network s LAN s IMS core network Global Positioning System GPS network s or the like . Server s can include one or more processors not shown configured to provide or that provide in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of computer executable code instructions not shown stored in a memory not shown functionally coupled to macro network platform for example.

In example system femto network platform is functionally coupled to external network s indirectly via macro network platform . However in additional or alternative embodiments femto network platform can be directly connected e.g. communicatively coupled to at least one external network in the set of one or more external network s .

While not illustrated macro network platform can include a memory or can be functionally coupled to at least one memory. Such memories can retain information related to wireless service provided to wireless equipment e.g. UE via a RAN. Information stored in the memory not shown can be substantially the same or similar in scope to the information retained in memory . In certain embodiments the at least one memory can be a storage layer that contains a group of one or more repositories that retain information that enables in part operation of macro network platform .

In view of the example system s or device s described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to . For purposes of simplicity of explanation various methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. It is noted that not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. In addition for example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s represent several of the example methods disclosed herein in accordance with the described subject matter particularly in instances when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of one or more of the several methods. Furthermore two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described in the subject disclosure.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture e.g. a removable volatile memory or non volatile memory to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that implement the one or more methods described herein can be employed to execute computer executable instructions retained in a memory volatile or non volatile or any computer readable or machine readable storage medium to implement one or more of the method described herein. Such computer executable instructions provide a computer executable or machine executable framework to implement the various methods described herein.

FOTA server receives the EID and the in use version of the SW application and at act FOTA server determines if a version of the SW application that is newer than the in use version of the SW application is available. As described supra determining if such newer version is available can include querying a repository accessible e.g. functionally coupled to the FOTA server for a current or last known version of the SW application available for the EID and comparing the result with the in use version of the SW application. The repository can reside within the FOTA server or it can be functionally coupled thereto and resident within a network platform that contains the FOTA server . In response to a negative outcome at act FOTA server conveys an indication that such newer SW version version of the SW application newer than the in use version is unavailable. UE receives e.g. collects decodes collects and decodes . . . such indication and terminates the FOTA session at act . In contrast in response to an affirmative outcome of act at act FOTA server can request an update instruction from UE . UE receives e.g. collects decodes collects and decodes . . . the request and at act generates the update instruction. In an illustrative scenario as described supra UE can generate the update instruction by collecting data input into UE from an external source an end user disparate equipment etc. . The collecting can include rendering a user interface as described supra. In another illustrative scenario UE can generate the update instruction by analyzing operation condition s of the UE and assessing whether a download is feasible e.g. it can be completed successfully . As described supra in case the update instruction indicates the update is to be performed e.g. a proceed instruction UE requests e.g. delivers a query or a command at act FOTA server to transfer at least one file related to the newer version of the SW application. At act in response to the request FOTA server delivers the at least one file related to the newer version of SW application. At act UE implements the update which includes terminating the FOTA session and directs flow or returns logic control to act . In certain embodiments implementing the SW update can include generating logical reference points e.g. records in memory or memory pointers at disparate stages of the implementing in order to resume an SW update that is terminated prior to completion.

Examples methods for initiating a FOTA session and implementing a SW update are presented respectively in the flowcharts of . Regarding example method attachment to an access point AP is effected at act . Attachment can be effected according to various approaches e.g. LAU RAU in 3GPP UMTS and can include enacting e.g. executing a variety of access control procedures prior to camping in the AP. As described supra one of such procedures is regulation of attachment through an ACL wherein the AP exploits the ACL to validate UE that attempts attachment to the AP. In response to attaching to the AP at act it is determined if an identity ID code of the AP is within a range of ID codes specific to a confined coverage AP. In case the outcome of the determination is negative operation without automatic FOTA is continued at act . In contrast in case outcome of the determination is affirmative the AP is recognized as a confined coverage AP at act . Recognizing the AP as a confined coverage AP femtocell AP picocell AP Wi Fi AP etc. can include configuring a logical variable e.g. an attachment variable or a presence variable to a value that conveys attachment to the confined coverage AP for instance the logical variable can be femto presence and it can be set to a TRUE value. The recognizing can include configuring and displaying an alphanumeric tag A tag that discloses that attachment condition of a mobile device e.g. UE that effects e.g. executes the subject example method corresponds to attachment to the confined coverage AP. As a result of or in response to recognizing the AP as a confined coverage AP an application that consumes a FOTA service is launched at act . At act connection to a server that hosts the FOTA service is effected the UE that implements the subject example method connects to the server.

In connection to example method at act at least one file of a version of the SW application that is newer than an in use version of the SW application is received e.g. collected downloaded decoded analyzed decoded or combination s thereof . In certain embodiments the receiving includes generating logical reference points e.g. records in memory or memory pointers at disparate stages of the implementing in order to resume an SW update that is terminated prior to completion. Moreover in scenarios in which the receiving occurs as part of resuming a previously incomplete reception of the at least one file the receiving includes referencing a logical reference point and resuming receiving a remainder of the at least one file.

At act the at least one file is committed e.g. stored . In an aspect committing the at least one file includes storing the at least one file in a memory functionally coupled to the mobile device e.g. UE that implements the subject example method . In addition the committing includes processing the at least one file to render the newer version of the newer version of the SW application to be suitable for consumption by the mobile device. In an aspect the processing can be dictated by the type s of the at least one file For an executable file the processing can include pointing to a new memory address for execution of the at least one file. For a file that conveys a library the processing include linking an extant SW application to the library. For a file that includes source code or computer executable instructions the processing can include compiling and linking the file and generating an executable file there from. Moreover committing the at least one file can include updating a version data structure relational table data tree file system etc. or at least one record thereof wherein the version data structure maintains a version record of the SW application or SW component s related thereto. The version data structure also can maintain record s of dependencies of the SW application with disparate SW component s .

At act a FOTA session that enables at least in part receiving and committing the at least one file is terminated. At act UE with the newer version of the SW application is restarted wherein the UE is embodied in the mobile device e.g. UE that implements e.g. executes the subject example method .

At act it is determined if the current version is newer than a previously acquired version of the SW application. Effecting such determination can include comparing data indicative of the current version as received as part of act with data indicative of the previously acquired version of the SW application. Data indicative of previously acquired version s of SW application s can be retained within the memory that retains the content caching service. The confined coverage AP or a component therein e.g. connectivity manager can record data representative of a version of a SW application that is relayed to wireless equipment as part of managing content of the wireless equipment according to aspects of the subject disclosure. Negative outcome of act leads to act . In the alternative affirmative outcome of act leads to act in which the current version of the SW application is acquired e.g. downloaded . The current version can be acquired from the server e.g. MOTA server that enables management of content of wireless equipment. Acquiring the current version of the SW application includes storing such version in the memory that retains the content caching service.

At act availability for consumption of content related to the current version of the SW application is signaled. Signaling such availability includes delivering an indication to the foregoing server e.g. MOTA server that the content can consumed e.g. retrieved from the confined coverage AP that implements the subject example method. In an aspect as described supra the indication includes payload data indicative of the current version that is available for consumption the wireless equipment for which the content is available and a logical address e.g. internet protocol IP address of a source e.g. a memory element such as application cache that contains the content.

At act at least the portion of the content related to the current version of the SW application is delivered in response to a request for at least the portion of the content received wherein the request is received from a mobile device in the set of mobile devices. The content can include one or more of source code executable code or one or more of a library a class an object a module or the like.

In example method acts through or collectively embody an example method for caching content related to a current version e.g. an updated version of a SW application and related SW component s . The confined coverage AP that implement example method can implement caching of such content within a time interval of low traffic served by the confined coverage AP or low processing load therein for example the time interval can be an overnight period or a period of low occupancy of an area household enterprise etc. served by the confined coverage AP.

Additionally example method allows one to many content distribution The confined coverage AP that implements example method one source can distribute content related to a SW application to a plurality of mobile devices many recipients. Compared to network based delivery see e.g. of content related to a SA application and common to two or more mobile devices delivery of such content to the two or more mobile devices according to example method can be more efficient and reliable since the content is made available to the two or more mobile devices in a single instance through acts . Increased efficiency and reliability arises at least from mitigation or avoidance of utilization of backhaul network resources for delivery of content related to an SW application to a mobile device. Moreover more efficient delivery e.g. faster or less prone to error delivery can release resources of the confined coverage AP and mitigate impact of an update on the battery life of the mobile device.

To illustrate utilization of the features related to local caching as described in connection with example method depicts a call flow of an example method for managing software of wireless equipment over the air wherein local caching can be exploited. The subject example method is similar to example method but exploits local caching when enabled. Acts are substantially the same respectively as acts . At act FOTA server determines if local caching is enabled. Such determination can be based on reception of an indication and related payload data that content related to a SW application is available in a local cache external to the FOTA server . As described hereinbefore the local cache can be functionally coupled to a confined coverage AP or included therein. In a scenario local caching is not enabled flow is directed to act which is substantially the same as act . In the alternative when local caching is enabled at act FOTA server directs the UE to the local cache for acquisition of the files. In an aspect FOTA server conveys data indicative of a logical network address e.g. IP address of the local cache . In response to receiving such directive UE acquires the file s related to the newer version of the SW application from local cache through a set of acts . In certain embodiments acquiring the files from the local cache includes downloading the file s wherein UE delivers a request for the file s to a component e.g. a confined coverage AP that controls access to the local cache . Note that the request delivered by the UE is the request referred to in act . The component receives the request and validates the UE in case the delivery of the request e.g. a Diameter request is part of an authentication protocol e.g. Diameter . In response to classifying the UE as a valid UE the component delivers the requested file s to the UE from the local cache . The subject example method continues at acts which are substantially the same to respective acts .

While examples methods are illustrated in connection with a SW application the subject example methods can be implemented for SW component s related to the SW application or for substantially any or any content that is specific to one or more features of wireless equipment and operation thereof. As indicated supra the one or more features can be a hardware feature a software feature a security feature an access clearance feature a location feature or a combination thereof.

Additionally example methods or acts thereof can be implemented by one or more processors that are part of wireless equipment MOTA server access points network nodes and so forth. The one or more processor can be configured to enable or can enable at least part of the functionality to such functional elements. In scenarios in which one or more components that are part of such functional elements are embodied in group s of one or more computer executable instructions stored in at least one memory at least one processor that executes or is configured to execute the group s of one or more computer executable instructions can implement e.g. execute one or more of methods described herein. Such implementation can be the result at least in part of execution of the group s of one or more computer executable instructions.

Various advantages emerge from the aspects or features described in the subject disclosure. In general when compared with conventional systems such aspects or features enable more aggressive update of software and related functionality of wireless equipment via transport and radio resources provided by subscriber of wireless service consumed through the wireless equipment. More particularly though not exclusively illustrative advantages of the subject disclosure include the following. i Automatic implementation of management content in response to recognition of a confined coverage AP that serves the wireless equipment for which content in managed. ii Utilization of radio and transport resources provided by a subscriber of wireless service provided in part through the confined coverage AP. iii Increased revenue potential and perceived quality of service originated in proactive deployment download installation activation etc. of content utilized by the wireless equipment. iv One to many distribution of content through caching. Compared to distribution of content that is common to multiple wireless equipment and entails repeated distribution from a network based server MOTA server to each of the multiple wireless equipment one to many distribution from a single non network based cache reduces utilization of backhaul network resources since the content can be made available to each of the multiple wireless equipment in a single event. In addition for at least a femtocell network the numerous aspects or features described herein provide superior solution s to OTA management of content for wireless equipment by leveraging operational aspects of the femtocell network.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be employed to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

As it is employed in the subject disclosure the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. In addition memory elements described herein can be affixed removable or a combination thereof.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through code instructions or program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

It should be appreciated that while various aspects features or advantages described herein have been illustrated through femtocell access point s and associated coverage such aspects or features also can be exploited in confined coverage access point s that provide wireless coverage through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as for example Wi Fi wireless fidelity or picocell telecommunication. Moreover aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology for example Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Furthermore substantially all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

