---

title: Method of making a reinforced resin structure
abstract: A method of making a reinforced resin structure is disclosed. A volume of uncured resin compound is placed on a first outer surface of a carrier structure comprising a plurality of fibers. The uncured resin compound and the carrier structure are pressed between two cooperating plates to disperse the resin compound into and through a plurality of passages between the plurality of fibers. The dispersed resin compound is cured to fix the resin within the plurality of passages and around the plurality of fibers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08916075&OS=08916075&RS=08916075
owner: Hamilton Sundstrand Space Systems International, Inc.
number: 08916075
owner_city: Windsor Locks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101028
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. NNH08CD04C awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to methods for producing composite materials and more specifically to methods for producing reinforced resin pads sheets and other related structures.

Many electronic components such as motor controllers and other high power circuits are susceptible to damage or performance degradation due to excessive heat including a substantial amount of waste heat generated during operation. Therefore the heat that these and other surrounding components generate must be quickly and efficiently drawn away to an outer shell a heat sink or other heat dissipating structure. At the same time electrical components in close proximity typically need to be electrically isolated from one another as well as from other electrical conductors in the vicinity to prevent interference short circuits and other issues.

Resins such as silicone epoxy or urethane are often chosen to encapsulate electronic components due to favorable properties as an electrical insulator and thermal conductor as well as their flexibility and relatively low weight. In many cases these resins begin as uncured liquid or moldable solids which can be directed or injected into gaps around the electronic components before curing in place. However some resin based encapsulants need to be reinforced by using a carrier structure when compressed into tight spaces or to otherwise improve their mechanical properties.

A method of making a reinforced resin structure is disclosed. A volume of uncured resin compound is placed on a first outer surface of a carrier structure comprising a plurality of fibers. The uncured resin compound and the carrier structure are pressed between two cooperating plates to disperse the resin compound into and through a plurality of passages between the plurality of fibers. The dispersed resin compound is cured to fix the resin within the plurality of passages and around the plurality of fibers.

A method of making a reinforced silicone pad is disclosed. A volume of uncured silicone based compound is placed on a first outer surface of a cloth comprising a plurality of woven fibers. The uncured silicone based compound and the cloth are pressed between two cooperating plates to disperse the silicone resin compound into and through a plurality of passages around the plurality of woven fibers the cooperating plates having pressing surfaces occupying parallel planes. The dispersed silicone based compound is cured to fix cross linked silicone within the passages around the plurality of woven fibers.

Many electronic devices include encapsulants such as moldable cross linked resin structures which separate adjacent electronic components and fill gaps within an enclosure. Resins are often chosen to take advantage of the favorable thermal conductivity and dielectric properties of such materials. In attempt to maintain low thermal impedance between a heat generating component and the encapsulant air and fluid gaps are also minimized or eliminated. As such some or all or the structure can be maintained under compression.

Over time maintaining many unreinforced resins such as silicone urethane or epoxies under compression will lead over time to a phenomenon known as compression set. For example when unreinforced resin structures are subjected to continuous compression forces over a period of months years or decades the structure will no longer spring back. Eventually repeated thermal cycling combined with compression set can lead to undesired gaps around the encapsulant. To maximize thermal transfer and dielectric separation the encapsulating structure should remain in contact with the electrical component s and the enclosure throughout the device s useful life.

Even a relatively small degree of compression set can significantly affect the contact between the electronic components and the unreinforced resin causing the thermal efficiency of the pad or sheet to decline markedly over time. This is problematic for example in applications such as aerospace systems where a component can be in service for missions lasting years or decades. Aerospace systems including those used in long term space travel and exploration missions employ very sensitive and critical components and controllers. These are often designed to be very small and light to facilitate storage repair and transport. And like many sophisticated electronics they can generate a substantial amount of heat leading to performance loss or thermal damage if thermal transfer is ever sufficiently compromised. Such gaps can also compromise the dielectric isolation between surrounding components.

Resin structures can be mechanically reinforced by a carrier structure such as various arrangements of natural or synthetic fibers such as cloths or webbing. In the past uncured resin has been introduced into a reinforcing carrier structure using a technique known as doctor blading. It is a slow methodical technique performed under low ambient pressure and requiring the use of organic solvents. Solvents soften or partially dissolve the uncured resin to allow it to be gently pushed into the carrier structure by a blade moving across each surface. However doctor blading is time consuming complex and organic solvents can introduce occupational and environmental complications.

Uncured resin compound can be a viscous fluid or moldable solid when placed on the outer surface of carrier structure . Pressure and heat applied in later steps discussed below induces compound to evenly penetrate and disperse throughout the carrier structure as described below. For example compounds with viscosities exceeding about 20 000 cP under ambient conditions will not immediately flow off of the surface of carrier structure but may experience run out during later processing. If desired to prevent run out resin compound and carrier structure can be retained within a mold or other suitable apparatus.

The base resin in compound can be virtually any curable polymer where cross linking is effectively reinforced by a carrier structure. Base resins are generally but not exclusively thermally cured and can include silicones urethanes and certain flexibilized epoxies. The base resin is chosen to balance cost processing and performance considerations.

The base resin can be self curing and thus in certain embodiments of the process uncured resin compound will comprise only the base resin. However many resins including many commercially available silicone compounds are mixed with a hardening agent to initiate or catalyze the curing process. For example some room temperature vulcanized RTV silicone rubber compounds such as Circalok 6711 require addition of a catalyst compound such as Circalok 6730. The hardener is typically added in a range of predetermined ratio relative to the resin. The ratio varies within a range specific to each combination of resin and hardener. For example the quantity of hardener for these Circalok compounds ranges from about 0.5 parts by weight pbw to about 5.0 pbw per 100 pbw of base resin.

Generally a higher concentration of hardening agent speeds the curing process but increases overall viscosity of compound . This can slow dispersion of compound shown in as well as reduce the elasticity and compressibility of the final cured pad or sheet limiting the ability of the final product to form and maintain a seal around components. Therefore materials and ratios should be chosen carefully to balance processing time and mechanical properties. An illustrative example is provided below.

Additionally in certain embodiments thermal conductivity of the final product can be augmented by adding various powders or other fillers. Examples include aluminum nitride AlN and aluminum oxide AlO . Fillers including but not limited to AlN and AlO generally have favorable dielectric and or thermal properties. They can be readily ground or pulverized into a powder for mixing and suspension in the uncured resin compound. These powders then become fixed within the cross linked polymer structure after curing and define numerous pathways through the final product to efficiently conduct and radiate thermal energy.

To ensure even distribution of powder and or hardening agent mixing should occur prior to placing compound on carrier structure . The particle size of the filler powder varies based on the selected components and carrier structure but is chosen to ensure adequate distribution throughout the product. In certain embodiments the average particle diameter can range from 0.01 mm to about 0.1 mm. The concentration of the powder relative to the uncured resin can also affect the thermal and the mechanical properties of the final product. If the concentration of the filler is too high such as when the AlN concentration exceeds about 40 pbw to 100 pbw of silicone resin more pressure is required to disperse the uncured mixture into the carrier structure. Similar to the hardening agent high concentrations of AlN or similar fillers can also limit elasticity of the cured product. With low concentrations such as when there is no more than about 10 pbw of AlN filler to 100 pbw of uncured silicone resin thermal conductivity may be insufficiently enhanced.

As noted above carrier structure includes a plurality of fibers with interconnected passages linking first and second outer surfaces. The passages define paths for the uncured compound to quickly disperse through the structure during application of pressure shown in . Carrier structure can be an open weave type which facilitates uniform dispersal of resin compound during the application of pressure by providing includes wider and more numerous passages than materials with denser weaves.

An open weave such as a leno weave has a lower fiber density and is very flexible contributing to improved elasticity in the finished product. In a leno weave fabric fibers are wrapped and intertwined into an array of figure eights with other fibers crossing through them which balances light weight with structural stability. Suitable fiber materials are readily woven or configured into a cloth or other structure and are chemically inert relative to the materials selected for the resin compound. Example fibers include coated or uncoated glass fiberglass or polymers such as polyacrylates.

Pressure P can be applied by any suitable machine including a hydraulic press not shown with two cooperating plates A B. Pressure can alternatively be applied using any other suitable apparatus. The pressure plates are positioned on the press so as to evenly distribute the forces from the press over the entire surface area of the plates. For example when producing a pad or sheet having a substantially uniform thickness two plates A B are configured each with a flat surface occupying parallel planes such as is shown in . In this way force is applied substantially evenly over the entire first outer surface area where uncured compound was placed.

The pressure and time required to implement the pressing step will depend on the materials selected. As noted above virtually any solid or semi solid resin can be reinforced with this method. In certain grades of silicone rubber for example the applied pressure can fall in the range of about 135 kPa 20 psig to about 350 kPa 50 psig over a time ranging from about 1 minute to about 10 minutes. In certain embodiments the pressure is not held constant over the entire time period. The applied pressure can be temporarily reduced one or more times in a technique known colloquially as bumping. Compound can be bumped to release entrapped air reducing the size and occurrence of voids and air bubbles in impregnated structure . Such imperfections if still present after curing diminish dielectric and thermal properties of the finished product. For example with compounds having a relatively short processing time before curing begins known also as pot life the materials are bumped within about a minute of pressure being applied to plates A B.

It will be understood that time and or pressure will be affected by viscosity of the resin compound as well the weave of the selected cloth. Viscosity of the compound can depend on the selected base resin as well as on the addition of other compounds as described above. Higher viscosities will generally raise the time and or pressure required. Larger diameter fibers as well as tighter weaves can also have a similar effect due to fewer and smaller passages between fibers. However applying heat Q at this stage can overcome these restrictions.

Heat Q can be applied before and or during the application of mechanical pressure to assist with forming impregnated structure . Plates A B include means for heating the press plate or can be preheated before the pressing step. It will be recognized that uncured resins having high viscosities at ambient conditions will benefit the most from heat Q by decreasing its viscosity which can speed the dispersal of compound shown in . For example heat Q can improve dispersal of high viscosity resins such as epoxies or high density urethanes.

Heat Q can additionally or alternatively be applied before application of compound to carrier structure shown in . The constituents of compound can be heated to facilitate mixing and residual heat may be retained in the resin mixture. Heat Q can also facilitate more efficient application to an outer surface of the carrier structure such as when carrier structure in has a relatively large surface area or higher fiber density. However heating to decrease viscosity can also increase the potential for material run out from between plates mold sections or other means for retaining the material and imparting substantially uniform pressure. It should also be noted that for certain resins excess heating at this stage may also induce curing before the compound has time to sufficiently disperse.

Dispersing the uncured resin via pressure is simple produces a consistent product increases the choice of available resins and reduces issues of hazardous chemical handling and disposal. In contrast doctor blading is a slow methodical technique in which very thin layers of uncured liquefied resin are applied one by one to each outer surface of a carrier structure until the resin fully seeps into both sides of the weave. It is believed that doctor blading in this instance works by using the organic solvent to partially separate the long unlinked polymer chains so that shear forces on the chains caused by localized blade pressure pushes them into one side of the carrier structure. In contrast it is believed that applied pressure generates heat from the frictional resistance between adjacent uncured polymer chains. As heat builds up the chains begin to untangle and separate and can more readily slide past one another and into the passages throughout the carrier structure. By using pressure in lieu of organic solvents inherent handling and disposal problems are avoided and occupational hazards are reduced.

This process further simplifies reinforcing of resin structures by ensuring substantially uniform dispersal of the uncured material in a single step. Doctor blading involves applying uncured resin as individual layers to each major outer surface of a carrier structure. In contrast a sufficient quantity of compound can be pressed in a single step into a single outer surface and will disperse throughout the passages to an opposing outer surface. For example for a sheet or pad a resin solvent mixture is applied by a doctor blade in individual layers across both sides of the carrier structure until additional layers of the mixture no longer penetrate. However the interior volume and passages are not readily observable. Thus it can be difficult to ensure the resin has sufficiently dispersed and saturated the structure. In contrast applying pressure such as in the manner disclosed causes the resin to completely disperse through the interconnected passages and it is easy to troubleshoot problems with application and dispersal.

Insufficient dispersal can be recognized after pressing by examining the outer surfaces of the carrier structure for presence of the uncured compound. For example a sufficient volume of the compound will eventually reach the opposing outer surface after application of pressure. If the volume is sufficient the uncured compound will be present over the entire opposing surface after pressing. If volume is insufficient there will be no compound left on the first surface nor will the opposing surface be saturated with the resin. When sufficient volume is present compound remaining on the first surface but not the opposing surface most likely indicates insufficient heat pressure and or pressing time.

The disclosed process increases flexibility in material selection due to its applicability for both RTV and high temperature resins. In contrast doctor blading is difficult to employ with commercially available RTV resins. Since RTV resins cure at or near room temperature the curing process often begins before the resin can be fully applied using a doctor blade. Many compounds have a limited pot life of an hour or less before curing progresses to a point affecting resin application. Thus to prevent premature curing of RTV resins doctor blade application is best done in a low temperature low pressure environment. Without specialized equipment RTV resins have limited advantages using the prior process.

The curing parameters are dependent on the properties of the selected resin compound and any additives. This is illustrated in the following description and in the example below. In certain embodiments this process can be used with both RTV and elevated temperature cured resins. As noted above there are many commercially available RTV resins with wide ranging thermal electrical and mechanical properties including silicone based urethane based and epoxy based materials. And as described above RTV resins can be used in this process without providing a low temperature low pressure environment which is often necessary in the prior process to inhibit premature curing of the compound during application.

Curing time required also depends on the selected resin compound and the relative concentrations of its constituents. Higher concentrations of a hardening agent if applicable for a particular compound will promote efficient and robust cross linking of adjacent polymer chains in and around the passages. This will typically reduce curing time but can also reduce elasticity of the final product as described above.

Heat Q is added via oven to facilitate the curing process. As explained above certain materials cure at elevated temperatures and thus heating will be required in such scenarios. In certain other embodiments selecting a resin that can be cured at or near room temperature simplifies the production of the protective pads or sheets because they do not require additional equipment such as oven to cure the resin. However though it is not necessary to heat RTV materials to initiate or sustain the curing process higher temperatures often expedite curing and hardening. Curing RTV compounds such as in oven can reduce overall processing time by speeding the chemical reaction s behind curing. This can help increase throughput of a manufacturing operation.

Recall that shows uncured impregnated structure being removed from between plates before being placed into oven in for curing. It will be recognized that heat Q applied in by oven for curing can alternatively be applied by plates in . In these alternative embodiments curing heat Q can be applied by plates with or without pressure P. As such would not be applicable to these embodiments.

It should also be noted that the method has been described relative to thermally cured resins but the curing step can be readily adapted for resins cured using other forms of energy. The appropriate form of energy such as ultraviolet or microwave radiation is substituted for heat Q to facilitate curing of such resins.

Various embodiments of the disclosed process including several alternatives have been detailed above. Following is an example illustration of the above described process adapted to produce a silicone pad reinforced by a glass fiber carrier structure.

A leno weave fiberglass cloth is used having a fiber density of about 1.8 oz ydat a thickness of about 0.11 mm 0.0045 in . The cloth is available from commercial suppliers. A segment of the cloth is cut to dimensions of about 152 mm 6.0 in square for use as a carrier structure. The cloth segment is placed on a release liner coated with polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE which in turn is placed on one of two steel pressure plates.

Approximately 50 grams of uncatalyzed RTV silicone resin sold commercially as Circalok 6711 having a density of about 2.2 g cmand viscosity of about 30 000 cP at 25 C. are mixed with about 2.5 grams of compatible hardening agent sold commercially as Circalok 6730 giving a ratio of about 5.0 pbw of hardener to about 100 pbw of base resin. This example hardening agent is a catalyst that promotes a cross linking reaction between adjacent silicone polymer chains. The uncured silicone resin compound is then placed atop the cloth.

A second release liner is disposed between the uncured compound layer and a second pressure plate. The plates are attached to a hydraulic press with a piston capable of maintaining a pressure of at least about 13.8 MPa 2000 psig . The plates are arranged in parallel planes to evenly distribute mechanical forces over the area of the cloth. The plates are also heated to a temperature of about 82 C. 180 F. .

In this example a maximum of about 13.8 MPa 2000 psig is applied to the pressure plates by a hydraulically actuated piston having a diameter of about 25 mm 1.0 in . Each plate measures about 150 mm 6.0 in per side resulting in a maximum effective pressure of about 44 psig oriented substantially normal to the major outer surfaces of the cloth. Within about a minute the applied pressure is reduced by about 80 to release entrapped air and prevent voids and bubbles in the pad. Pressure is then reapplied to its original magnitude for another five minutes. The plates are maintained at constant temperature for a total of about two hours to cure the silicone fixing the compound within the passages of the cloth.

Once the curing time is elapsed the pad is removed the release liners are detached and the pad is allowed to cool. If necessary excess unreinforced material can be trimmed from edges of the pad. The cured pad has a dielectric strength of at least about 12 kV mm 300 kV in thermal conductivity of about 0.72 W m K and a Shore A hardness value of at least about 55. In this example the pad is then cut into smaller segments suitable for installation into an enclosure for housing at least one electronic component. The pad segments are placed into the enclosure under compression such that each component is electrically isolated from any other component and from the enclosure. Each component is also in physical contact with one or more pad segments to minimize thermal impedance caused by the material interface. An example component can be an electronic device having a plurality of high energy capacitors such as a solid state motor controller that generate significant quantities of waste heat.

It should be noted that since the resin used in this example is an RTV silicone rubber compound additional heat need not be provided to the pad in order to facilitate the curing process. However as noted above pads produced with many RTV materials can be heated to speed the cross linking reactions. In this particular example decreasing the curing temperature to room temperature conditions about 25 C. 77 F. from the above described 82 C. 180 F. increases the curing time to about 24 hours from about 2 hours. Similarly decreasing the concentration of hardening agent also slows the curing reaction. At room temperature curing conditions reducing the concentration of Circalok 6730 catalyst in the compound by a factor of ten to about 0.5 pbw hardener to about 100 pbw resin further increases the curing time to 72 hours. At the elevated temperature of about 82 C. 180 F. curing time increases from about 2 hours to about 6 hours. In this example the glass cloth does not noticeably affect curing time compared to unreinforced resins. However an effect may be seen in certain other embodiments.

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

