---

title: System and method for handling restoration operations on mobile devices
abstract: Systems and methods for handling restoration operations for a mobile device. A mobile device receives a kill pill command, wherein the command causes some or all data on the mobile device to be wiped. An indicator is stored to indicate that the kill pill command was sent to the mobile device. The indicator is used to determine whether a program should be wiped from the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07986939&OS=07986939&RS=07986939
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 07986939
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100311
---
This application is a continuation of the U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 065 984 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR HANDLING RESTORATION OPERATIONS ON MOBILE DEVICES filed on Feb. 25 2005. The present application and the 984 application claim priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 567 164 filed on Apr. 30 2004. All of these are hereby incorporated into the present application by reference.

The present invention relates generally to the field of communications and in particular to handling restoration operations on mobile wireless communications devices.

Systems that handle mobile devices can be configured to support the idea of a kill pill. This feature provides the functionality that if a handheld mobile device is lost or stolen the owner could call their information technology IT department to let them know. The IT department may send a kill packet to the device which would cause all of the data to be wiped in order to prevent its disclosure.

Difficulties arise with this feature. For example a problem is that the thief could load Trojan software onto the device and leave it for the owner to find. Then the owner would find it reload their data and not even know about the Trojan software.

In accordance with the teachings disclosed herein systems and methods are disclosed for handling restoration operations for a mobile device.

As an example of a system and method a mobile device receives a kill pill command wherein the command causes data on the mobile device to be wiped. An indicator is stored to indicate that the kill pill command was sent to the mobile device. The indicator is used to determine whether a program should be wiped from the mobile device.

As another example of a system and method if a kill pill is sent to a mobile device then an indicator indicating that this has happened is stored in the device s nonvolatile store. If the device is found then the indicator is checked. If it has been set a series of operations is performed. In one such operation one or more applications are wiped from the device.

As yet another example of a system and method an IT information technology administrator or an agent thereof sends a kill pill command to a mobile device. An indicator indicating that this has happened is stored in the device s nonvolatile store. If the device is found then the indicator is checked. If it has been set a series of operations is performed. In one such operation one or more applications are wiped from the device according to a program wipe configuration provided by the IT administrator.

Another system and method include first instructions that are configured to execute upon a mobile device and configured to store an indicator on the mobile device that the kill pill command was sent to the mobile device. The mobile device wipes data on the mobile device in response to the kill pill command. Second instructions are configured to execute on the mobile device and after the mobile device is recovered the second instructions are configured to use the indicator to determine whether a program should be wiped from the mobile device.

Another system and method include server side instructions and steps that provide program wipe configurations to mobile devices in order to determine what programs are to be wiped from a mobile device.

As will be appreciated the systems and methods disclosed herein are capable of modifications in various respects. Accordingly the drawings and description set forth herein are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not restrictive.

An e mail sender system may for example be connected to an ISP Internet Service Provider on which a user of the system has an account located within a company possibly connected to a local area network LAN and connected to the Internet or connected to the Internet through a large ASP application service provider such as America Online AOL . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the systems shown in may instead be connected to a wide area network WAN other than the Internet although e mail transfers are commonly accomplished through Internet connected arrangements as shown in .

The message server may be implemented for example on a network computer within the firewall of a corporation a computer within an ISP or ASP system or the like and acts as the main interface for e mail exchange over the Internet . Although other messaging systems might not require a message server system a mobile device configured for receiving and possibly sending e mail will normally be associated with an account on a message server. Perhaps the two most common message servers are Microsoft Exchange and Lotus Domino . These products are often used in conjunction with Internet mail routers that route and deliver mail. These intermediate components are not shown in as they do not directly play a role in the secure message processing described below. Message servers such as server typically extend beyond just e mail sending and receiving they also include dynamic database storage engines that have predefined database formats for data like calendars to do lists task lists e mail and documentation.

The wireless gateway and infrastructure provide a link between the Internet and wireless network . The wireless infrastructure determines the most likely network for locating a given user and tracks the user as they roam between countries or networks. A message is then delivered to the mobile device via wireless transmission typically at a radio frequency RF from a base station in the wireless network to the mobile device . The particular network may be virtually any wireless network over which messages may be exchanged with a mobile communication device.

As shown in a composed e mail message is sent by the e mail sender located somewhere on the Internet . This message is normally fully in the clear and uses traditional Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP RFC822 headers and Multipurpose Internet Mail Extension MIME body parts to define the format of the mail message. These techniques are all well known to those skilled in the art. The message arrives at the message server and is normally stored in a message store. Most known messaging systems support a so called pull message access scheme wherein the mobile device must request that stored messages be forwarded by the message server to the mobile device . Some systems provide for automatic routing of such messages which are addressed using a specific e mail address associated with the mobile device . In a preferred embodiment described in further detail below messages addressed to a message server account associated with a host system such as a home computer or office computer which belongs to the user of a mobile device are redirected from the message server to the mobile device as they are received.

Regardless of the specific mechanism controlling the forwarding of messages to the mobile device the message or possibly a translated or reformatted version thereof is sent to the wireless gateway . The wireless infrastructure includes a series of connections to wireless network . These connections could be Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN Frame Relay or T connections using the TCP IP protocol used throughout the Internet. As used herein the term wireless network is intended to include three different types of networks those being 1 data centric wireless networks 2 voice centric wireless networks and 3 dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to 1 Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks 2 the Groupe Special Mobile or the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM and the General Packet Radio Service GPRS networks and 3 future third generation 3G networks like Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS . Some older examples of data centric network include the Mobitex Radio Network and the DataTAC Radio Network. Examples of older voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and TDMA systems.

The central host system will typically be a corporate office or other LAN but may instead be a home office computer or some other private system where mail messages are being exchanged. Within the host system is the message server running on some computer within the firewall of the host system that acts as the main interface for the host system to exchange e mail with the Internet . In the system of the redirection program enables redirection of data items from the server to a mobile communication device . Although the redirection program is shown to reside on the same machine as the message server for ease of presentation there is no requirement that it must reside on the message server. The redirection program and the message server are designed to co operate and interact to allow the pushing of information to mobile devices . In this installation the redirection program takes confidential and non confidential corporate information for a specific user and redirects it out through the corporate firewall to mobile devices . A more detailed description of the redirection software may be found in the commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 694 the 694 Patent entitled System and Method for Pushing Information From A Host System To A Mobile Data Communication Device Having A Shared Electronic Address and issued to the assignee of the instant application on Apr. 17 2001 which is hereby incorporated into the present application by reference. This push technique may use a wireless friendly encoding compression and encryption technique to deliver all information to a mobile device thus effectively extending the security firewall to include each mobile device associated with the host system .

As shown in there may be many alternative paths for getting information to the mobile device . One method for loading information onto the mobile device is through a port designated using a device cradle . This method tends to be useful for bulk information updates often performed at initialization of a mobile device with the host system or a computer within the system . The other main method for data exchange is over the air using wireless networks to deliver the information. As shown in this may be accomplished through a wireless VPN router or through a traditional Internet connection to a wireless gateway and a wireless infrastructure as described above. The concept of a wireless VPN router is new in the wireless industry and implies that a VPN connection could be established directly through a specific wireless network to a mobile device . The possibility of using a wireless VPN router has only recently been available and could be used when the new Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 arrives into IP based wireless networks. This new protocol will provide enough IP addresses to dedicate an IP address to every mobile device and thus make it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. A principal advantage of using this wireless VPN router is that it could be an off the shelf VPN component thus it would not require a separate wireless gateway and wireless infrastructure to be used. A VPN connection would preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection to deliver the messages directly to the mobile device . If a wireless VPN is not available then a link to the Internet is the most common connection mechanism available and has been described above.

In the automatic redirection system of a composed e mail message leaving the e mail sender arrives at the message server and is redirected by the redirection program to the mobile device . As this redirection takes place the message is re enveloped as indicated at and a possibly proprietary compression and encryption algorithm can then be applied to the original message . In this way messages being read on the mobile device are no less secure than if they were read on a desktop workstation such as within the firewall. All messages exchanged between the redirection program and the mobile device preferably use this message repackaging technique. Another goal of this outer envelope is to maintain the addressing information of the original message except the sender s and the receiver s address. This allows reply messages to reach the appropriate destination and also allows the from field to reflect the mobile user s desktop address. Using the user s e mail address from the mobile device allows the received message to appear as though the message originated from the user s desktop system rather than the mobile device .

With reference back to the port and cradle connectivity to the mobile device this connection path offers many advantages for enabling one time data exchange of large items. For those skilled in the art of personal digital assistants PDAs and synchronization the most common data exchanged over this link is Personal Information Management PIM data . When exchanged for the first time this data tends to be large in quantity bulky in nature and requires a large bandwidth to get loaded onto the mobile device where it can be used on the road. This serial link may also be used for other purposes including setting up a private security key such as an S MIME or PGP specific private key the Certificate Cert of the user and their Certificate Revocation Lists CRLs . The private key is preferably exchanged so that the desktop and mobile device share one personality and one method for accessing all mail. The Cert and CRLs are normally exchanged over such a link because they represent a large amount of the data that is required by the device for S MIME PGP and other public key security methods.

When a kill pill packet is sent to the device then an indication is used to indicate that a kill pill situation has occurred. The indication is stored in a non volatile store of the device . Because the indication is stored in a non volatile store the indication is not erased during the wipe.

With reference to if the device is later found and the user recradles it or begins an over the air synchronization to reload their device data then the indication is checked. If the indication is present in the non volatile store then all of the applications or certain applications are wiped from the device . In this way any Trojan software is also deleted.

The device can be configured to indicate which applications are to be erased during a reloading operation that occurs after a kill pill situation. For example the configuration can specify that any applications not provided by the manufacturer of the device can be wiped while those applications provided by the manufacturer of the device can remain on the device . Still further the device can be configured via a list that designates specific applications that are to be wiped during the reloading operation as well as specific applications that are to remain on the device .

With reference to the mobile device is located as indicated by step . A reload operation begins at step in order to restore data that may have been removed when the kill pill data was originally sent to the device . Decision step examines whether a kill pill flag had been set in the non volatile memory of the device . If a flag had not been set then data is re loaded onto the mobile device at step and processing for this operational scenario terminates at end block .

However if a flag had been set as determined by decision step then all or a certain number of applications are removed from the device at step . Any Trojan software would also be deleted at step . At step the applications that had been removed at step are reloaded onto the device . The data is also reloaded at step and processing for this operational scenario terminates at end block .

It should be understood that similar to the other processing flows described herein the steps and the order of the steps in the flowchart described herein may be altered modified and or augmented and still achieve the desired outcome. For example on the first data synchronization after the kill pill is sent the user could be alerted to the fact that the device had been wiped and then they could be given a set of options on what to do. Such options can include the following 1 wipe the device or 2 continue as normal. This allows the user to decide what to do.

As another alternative an IT department could have a desktop computer IT policy set up e.g. a KILL PILL AFTERMATH IT policy . The policy could define the set of actions to take place on the next synchronization after a kill pill is sent. It could include such items as whether to wipe all the applications or all the non manufacturer provided applications and whether to wipe the non volatile store.

As another example the device could also during reloading operations re generate content protection keys and any other such information that might have been lost during the wipe.

The settings may be retrieved from a policy data store and provided to the devices over a network or other data connection mechanism in order to update the data stores on the devices . The devices can be pre programmed with the settings and can be updated by the IT administrator or can have the initial settings provided by the IT administrator .

This provides among other things companies with the capability to customize kill pill settings to suit their needs. Also an IT administrator can provide the same settings to all devices of the company or organization thereby ensuring that company devices adhere to a consistent IT policy.

An IT policy can be enforced upon the devices in many ways such as through the approaches described in the following commonly assigned U.S.patent application which is hereby incorporated by reference System And Method Of Owner Control Of Electronic Devices Ser. No. 10 732 132 filed on Dec. 10 2003 . This document illustrates how a user of a device can be prevented from altering or erasing owner control information e.g. kill pill settings specified by an IT administrator .

The systems and methods disclosed herein are presented only by way of example and are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Other variations of the systems and methods described above will be apparent to those skilled in the art and as such are considered to be within the scope of the invention. For example the systems and methods disclosed herein may be used with many different computers and devices such as a wireless mobile communications device shown in . With reference to the mobile device is a dual mode mobile device and includes a transceiver a microprocessor a display non volatile memory random access memory RAM one or more auxiliary input output I O devices a serial port a keyboard a speaker a microphone a short range wireless communications sub system and other device sub systems .

The transceiver includes a receiver a transmitter antennas and one or more local oscillators and a digital signal processor DSP . The antennas and may be antenna elements of a multiple element antenna and are preferably embedded antennas. However the systems and methods described herein are in no way restricted to a particular type of antenna or even to wireless communication devices.

The mobile device is preferably a two way communication device having voice and data communication capabilities. Thus for example the mobile device may communicate over a voice network such as any of the analog or digital cellular networks and may also communicate over a data network. The voice and data networks are depicted in by the communication tower . These voice and data networks may be separate communication networks using separate infrastructure such as base stations network controllers etc. or they may be integrated into a single wireless network.

The transceiver is used to communicate with the network and includes the receiver the transmitter the one or more local oscillators and the DSP . The DSP is used to send and receive signals to and from the transceivers and and also provides control information to the receiver and the transmitter . If the voice and data communications occur at a single frequency or closely spaced sets of frequencies then a single local oscillator may be used in conjunction with the receiver and the transmitter . Alternatively if different frequencies are utilized for voice communications versus data communications for example then a plurality of local oscillators can be used to generate a plurality of frequencies corresponding to the voice and data networks . Information which includes both voice and data information is communicated to and from the transceiver via a link between the DSP and the microprocessor .

The detailed design of the transceiver such as frequency band component selection power level etc. will be dependent upon the communication network in which the mobile device is intended to operate. For example a mobile device intended to operate in a North American market may include a transceiver designed to operate with any of a variety of voice communication networks such as the Mobitex or DataTAC mobile data communication networks AMPS TDMA CDMA PCS etc. whereas a mobile device intended for use in Europe may be configured to operate with the GPRS data communication network and the GSM voice communication network. Other types of data and voice networks both separate and integrated may also be utilized with a mobile device .

Depending upon the type of network or networks the access requirements for the mobile device may also vary. For example in the Mobitex and DataTAC data networks mobile devices are registered on the network using a unique identification number associated with each mobile device. In GPRS data networks however network access is associated with a subscriber or user of a mobile device. A GPRS device typically requires a subscriber identity module SIM which is required in order to operate a mobile device on a GPRS network. Local or non network communication functions if any may be operable without the SIM device but a mobile device will be unable to carry out any functions involving communications over the data network other than any legally required operations such as 911 emergency calling.

After any required network registration or activation procedures have been completed the mobile device may the send and receive communication signals including both voice and data signals over the networks . Signals received by the antenna from the communication network are routed to the receiver which provides for signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. and may also provide analog to digital conversion. Analog to digital conversion of the received signal allows more complex communication functions such as digital demodulation and decoding to be performed using the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted to the network are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP and are then provided to the transmitter for digital to analog conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the communication network via the antenna .

In addition to processing the communication signals the DSP also provides for transceiver control. For example the gain levels applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP . Other transceiver control algorithms could also be implemented in the DSP in order to provide more sophisticated control of the transceiver .

The microprocessor preferably manages and controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Many types of microprocessors or microcontrollers could be used here or alternatively a single DSP could be used to carry out the functions of the microprocessor . Low level communication functions including at least data and voice communications are performed through the DSP in the transceiver . Other high level communication applications such as a voice communication application A and a data communication application B may be stored in the non volatile memory for execution by the microprocessor . For example the voice communication module A may provide a high level user interface operable to transmit and receive voice calls between the mobile device and a plurality of other voice or dual mode devices via the network . Similarly the data communication module B may provide a high level user interface operable for sending and receiving data such as e mail messages files organizer information short text messages etc. between the mobile device and a plurality of other data devices via the networks .

The microprocessor also interacts with other device subsystems such as the display the RAM the auxiliary input output I O subsystems the serial port the keyboard the speaker the microphone the short range communications subsystem and any other device subsystems generally designated as .

Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Notably some subsystems such as the keyboard and the display may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over a data communication network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list or other PDA type functions.

Operating system software used by the microprocessor is preferably stored in a persistent store such as non volatile memory . The non volatile memory may be implemented for example as a Flash memory component or as battery backed up RAM. In addition to the operating system which controls low level functions of the mobile device the non volatile memory includes a plurality of software modules A N that can be executed by the microprocessor and or the DSP including a voice communication module A a data communication module B and a plurality of other operational modules N for carrying out a plurality of other functions. These modules are executed by the microprocessor and provide a high level interface between a user and the mobile device . This interface typically includes a graphical component provided through the display and an input output component provided through the auxiliary I O keyboard speaker and microphone . The operating system specific device applications or modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as RAM for faster operation. Moreover received communication signals may also be temporarily stored to RAM before permanently writing them to a file system located in a persistent store such as the Flash memory .

An exemplary application module N that may be loaded onto the mobile device is a personal information manager PIM application providing PDA functionality such as calendar events appointments and task items. This module N may also interact with the voice communication module A for managing phone calls voice mails etc. and may also interact with the data communication module for managing e mail communications and other data transmissions. Alternatively all of the functionality of the voice communication module A and the data communication module B may be integrated into the PIM module.

The non volatile memory preferably also provides a file system to facilitate storage of PIM data items on the device. The PIM application preferably includes the ability to send and receive data items either by itself or in conjunction with the voice and data communication modules A B via the wireless networks . The PIM data items are preferably seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless networks with a corresponding set of data items stored or associated with a host computer system thereby creating a mirrored system for data items associated with a particular user.

Context objects representing at least partially decoded data items as well as fully decoded data items are preferably stored on the mobile device in a volatile and non persistent store such as the RAM . Such information may instead be stored in the non volatile memory for example when storage intervals are relatively short such that the information is removed from memory soon after it is stored. However storage of this information in the RAM or another volatile and non persistent store is preferred in order to ensure that the information is erased from memory when the mobile device loses power. This prevents an unauthorized party from obtaining any stored decoded or partially decoded information by removing a memory chip from the mobile device for example.

The mobile device may be manually synchronized with a host system by placing the device in an interface cradle which couples the serial port of the mobile device to the serial port of a computer system or device. The serial port may also be used to enable a user to set preferences through an external device or software application or to download other application modules N for installation. This wired download path may be used to load an encryption key onto the device which is a more secure method than exchanging encryption information via the wireless network . Interfaces for other wired download paths may be provided in the mobile device in addition to or instead of the serial port . For example a USB port would provide an interface to a similarly equipped personal computer.

Additional application modules N may be loaded onto the mobile device through the networks through an auxiliary I O subsystem through the serial port through the short range communications subsystem or through any other suitable subsystem and installed by a user in the non volatile memory or RAM . Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

When the mobile device is operating in a data communication mode a received signal such as a text message or a web page download is processed by the transceiver module and provided to the microprocessor which preferably further processes the received signal in multiple stages as described above for eventual output to the display or alternatively to an auxiliary I O device . A user of mobile device may also compose data items such as e mail messages using the keyboard which is preferably a complete alphanumeric keyboard laid out in the QWERTY style although other styles of complete alphanumeric keyboards such as the known DVORAK style may also be used. User input to the mobile device is further enhanced with a plurality of auxiliary I O devices which may include a thumbwheel input device a touchpad a variety of switches a rocker input switch etc. The composed data items input by the user may then be transmitted over the communication networks via the transceiver module .

When the mobile device is operating in a voice communication mode the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar to the data mode except that received signals are preferably be output to the speaker and voice signals for transmission are generated by a microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is preferably accomplished primarily through the speaker the display may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party the duration of a voice call or other voice call related information. For example the microprocessor in conjunction with the voice communication module and the operating system software may detect the caller identification information of an incoming voice call and display it on the display .

A short range communications subsystem is also included in the mobile device . The subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a short range RF communication module such as a Bluetooth module or an 802.11 module for example to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that Bluetooth and 802.11 refer to sets of specifications available from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers relating to wireless personal area networks and wireless local area networks respectively.

The systems and methods data may be stored in one or more data stores. The data stores can be of many different types of storage devices and programming constructs such as RAM ROM Flash memory programming data structures programming variables etc. It is noted that data structures describe formats for use in organizing and storing data in databases programs memory or other computer readable media for use by a computer program.

The systems and methods may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that a module or processor includes but is not limited to a unit of code that performs a software operation and can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code.

