---

title: System and method for enhancing registered images using edge overlays
abstract: The system relates to a method for enhancing an image by extracting edge points from a corresponding image and overlaying the edge points on the image to be enhanced. In one aspect of the method, the first image is of a lower resolution than the second image. The method also contemplates enhancing an image taken with a first modality with a second image taken with another modality.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08457437&OS=08457437&RS=08457437
owner: Raytheon Company
number: 08457437
owner_city: Waltham
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100323
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. 2004 K7124300 000 awarded by the Department of Defense DOD . The Government has certain rights in this invention.

This disclosure relates to a system and method for image enhancing using edge overlays. More specifically this disclosure relates to a system and method for enhancing a low resolution image using edge overlays extracted from a high resolution image.

A wide variety of surveillance and imaging technologies depend upon techniques that fuse data from multiple sensors. Using these techniques pieces of information from various sources can be combined into a single image containing the important information from all sensors. For instance infrared imagery can be combined with visible imagery to create an improved image.

One basic data fusion technique is Pan Sharpening wherein a panchromatic image with a fine spatial resolution or low ground sample distance GSD is combined with a second image having a larger GSD. An example of a system implementing such technique is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 949 914 to Yuen.

Systems using Pan sharpening techniques employ a single band gray scale panchromatic image and multi band spectral image i.e. a color image . However these Pan sharpening techniques generally are known to introduce artifacts from the sharpening image into the sharpened result.

Other methods and systems currently utilized in the industry for processing images by way of sharpening one image with another image have also exhibited a side effect of introducing artifacts from the sharpening process. In turn these artifacts lead to users or viewers of the sharpened image confusing the artifact as actual data from the original image.

Hence there exists a need in the industry to overcome these problems and provide a method and system for enhancing the sharpness of images without introducing unwanted artifacts into the enhanced image. Accordingly there exists a need to concurrently display information from both a low resolution image and a high resolution image without modifying any pixel values in the image to be enhanced. There also exists a need to leave the original image to be enhanced intact preserving the original data without modification while overlaying enhancing data from a second image so to preserve the original image while displaying the enhancing data as an overlay to provide enhanced context.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure a system is disclosed which implements an automated method for enhancing an image without modifying the image to be enhanced. In one aspect of the method the image is enhanced by extracting edge points from a corresponding image and overlaying the extracted edge points onto corresponding locations in the image to be enhanced. In another aspect of the method the corresponding image is of a higher resolution than the image to be enhanced.

An advantage is the ability to fuse non aligned images in a way that does not introduce any artifacts into the result by mapping corresponding points between the two images to one another and extracting edge information from one image to overlay on the other image.

Another advantage is to allow an adjustment to the number of edge points overlaid on the first image based upon the intensity of those edge points in the second image.

Various embodiments of the invention may have none some or all of these advantages. Other technical advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art.

The disclosed system relates to a system and method for enhancing an image using edge overlays. In one aspect of the disclosure details from a high resolution image are overlaid on top of a similar low resolution image. Details regarding the system and associated method are discussed below.

One embodiment of a system within which the enhancing of images using edge overlays may be implemented in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure is illustrated in . The system comprises a processing unit a memory a high resolution image data store and a low resolution image source .

The system can be implemented on one or more computing systems which can include a personal computer a workstation a network computer hand held device or any other suitable processing device. Further the system can be written as a software program in any appropriate computer language such as for example C C C Java Assembler Tcl Lisp Javascript or any other suitable language.

The processing unit can be any computer processing unit and could be a single central processing unit or a number of processing units configured to operate either in sequence or in parallel. The processing unit can be configured to execute software processes which implement the steps disclosed herein.

The memory is any computer memory capable of storing the steps necessary for the processing unit to implement the steps disclosed herein. The memory may be in the form of memory resident within the processing unit or in the form of standalone memory coupled to the processing unit via a communication path such as a bus or a network. The high resolution image data store can be any system for storing data such as a database a filesystem a hard drive or a flash drive and likewise may also be resident or remotely coupled via a network.

The low resolution image source can be any image source in communication with the processing unit . Depicted by way of example in the low resolution image source could be an Unmanned Aerial Vehicle equipped with imaging components a camera or a satellite capable of capturing imaging data. The low resolution image source could also be a data store such as a database or filesystem which contains imaging data. As would be evident to one of skill in the art the low resolution image source may also be in the form of the same datastore as the high resolution image datastore .

Turning to the system enhances an area of a low resolution image by identifying edge points in a high resolution image . These edge points correspond to an object which is found in both the low resolution image and high resolution image . Once the edge points are identified they can be overlaid on top of the low resolution image forming an enhanced image .

The term low resolution image and high resolution image can refer to the pixel count of the respective images wherein a low resolution image has a lower pixel count than the high resolution image . The terms low resolution image and high resolution image can also refer to images collected by different image collection modalities. For instance the low resolution image can be collected from a long wave infrared LWIR image and enhanced using edge information from a high resolution image captured using visible near infrared VNIR . In such a situation the two sensors LWIR and VNIR measure fundamentally different properties. Namely VNIR collects the reflectivity of the surface while LWIR measures the surface emissivity and temperature. By extracting edge information from the high resolution VNIR modality and overlaying that on top of the low resolution LWIR modality the features of each band remain distinct and a more complete picture can be displayed.

In another example the low resolution image and high resolution image can be taken with the same modality but under different conditions. For instance the low resolution image to be enhanced may be taken from a camera on one day. There may be a need to enhance that image with a picture taken by the same camera a few days later under differing circumstances e.g. a brighter sunnier day or geometry. Thus the high resolution image could be the picture taken by the camera on a different day.

As would be evident to one of skill in the art the images and can be in the form of any image capable of being analyzed by a computing system including panchromatic images images collected in the broad visual wavelength range but rendered in black and white multispectral images images optically acquired in more than one spectral or wavelength interval grayscale images images in which the value of each pixel is a single sample infrared images images collected using infrared radiation RADAR or any other image.

Importantly edge information from both the low resolution image and high resolution image is utilized in enhancing the low resolution image . Thus the enhancing technique does not lose any information contained in either of the images.

In now referring to one embodiment of the steps that may be performed by the system for achieving image enhancing using edge overlays can be seen in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure. As shown in the system begins at step by mapping the high resolution image to the low resolution image . This can be accomplished through image registration a process which involves transforming data from different sets into a single coordinate system. Image registration is a preprocessing task in image processing which fuses information from multiple images or multiple modalities of imaging. In a preferred embodiment the system herein can fuse a high resolution image with a low resolution image utilizing an image registration algorithm capable of sub pixel registration as explained below in connection with .

Returning to the system next detects one or more edge points in the high resolution image at step . Preferably edge detection is performed with an algorithm capable of thinning the edge. For instance in one embodiment the algorithm disclosed in A Fast Table Driven Method for Edge Thinning and Linking by David Prewer Les Kitchen can be used. During this process of edge detection the system identifies points in the high resolution image at which the brightness changes or has discontinuities. Through this process the system may determine the boundaries of objects see in an image.

However it should be noted that it is not necessary for the entirety of an edge of an object to be detected for the system to operate properly. consisting of and discloses an example of edge points detected in a 9 9 image which could correspond to the high resolution image as seen in . The numbers in each of the cells in and represent edge intensities. depicts a table having edge points whose values are higher than 160 and as further discussed below displayed in boldface. Note that each of the numerals in and represent edge points . As can be seen the point at cell 6 5 with an intensity of 153 is not bold face but the remaining edge points indicating an object edge have been identified thus depicting an edge of the object in the image.

As would be evident to one of skill in the art the edge detection step can happen at the same time in parallel with the image registration step. Both steps can be performed on the same computer or on separate computers. As mentioned above once the edge points have been identified the system may assign intensity attributes to those edge points as shown at step . In alternative embodiments this step may be combined with the edge detection step.

In determining intensity the system may rank the detected edge points based upon any intensity criteria. For instance the system may rank the edge points based strength of contrast. Additionally other commonly known image intensity criteria could also be employed to accomplish detecting the edge points and determining intensity.

Once intensity values have been determined for each of the edge points an intensity threshold is determined at step . In one embodiment the entire range of intensity values may be divided into categories. For instance edge points whose values are 90 100 of the maximum edge point intensity would be in 1 category those whose values are 80 89 of the maximum in a second category and so forth. Any other system of categorization of intensity values would work within the teachings of the present disclosure.

The intensity threshold is utilized for determining which edge points are to be overlaid on the lower resolution image . The system can use a preselected intensity threshold or allow for selection of the intensity threshold later. In one embodiment the system provides a sliding scale permitting a user to dynamically select an intensity threshold while at the same time seeing how many edge points are captured with the selected threshold. Thus a user may increase the threshold to reduce the number of edge points that will be overlaid and thus eliminate noise that is to say edge points that may not be helpful in enhancing the low resolution image see . As discussed below these steps through can be performed essentially simultaneously so that the edges are overlaid on top of the low resolution image as the intensity threshold is selected.

Returning to the flow chart in at step once an intensity threshold is selected the system selects those edge points whose intensity value satisfies the intensity threshold. Next the system determines the respective pixel location of the selected edge points at step . This enables the system to know where in the high resolution image the particular edge point which has been selected is located. Using this information at step the system computes a corresponding location in the low resolution image for the selected edge point. To accomplish this the system utilizes the mapping between the low resolution image and high resolution image determined in step . As discussed above in connection with this mapping associates each pixel in the high resolution image with a pixel or subpixel fraction of a pixel in the low resolution image . See the mapping of cell 0 0 in low resolution image of to cells 0 0 0 1 1 0 and 1 1 of high resolution image .

At step the system then overlays the selected edge points from the high resolution image on top of the low resolution image . The result is that the low resolution image is enhanced based upon the edge information extracted from the high resolution image to result in the enhanced image as seen in .

A variety of image formats can be used for both the low resolution image and high resolution image including National Imagery Transmission Format NITF and Joint Photographic Experts Group MPEG format. Additionally in a preferred embodiment the edge points are presented as an additional layer on top of the low resolution image . Thus the low resolution image is not modified other than to display an additional layer. The resulting enhanced image can also be saved or further manipulated according to the disclosed method. For instance another area similar to in the low resolution image could be identified for enhancing.

The foregoing has described the present disclosure for a preferred embodiment. The disclosure is also intended to be applied to numerous other techniques. For instance current techniques for PAN sharpening are useful for a narrow range of fused imagery and were built to address the fusion of coarse resolution multispectral imagery MSI usually 3 or 4 bands of data and a finer resolution single PAN band. The present disclosure allows enhancement of the coarse resolution spectral image with a fine resolution PAN band without mixing information from the different images as one image remains unchanged while information from the other image is converted to an edge map which is then overlaid on the first image.

For example in a PAN sharpening system a 4 band MSI image may be enhanced by overlaying a sharpening band on the MSI image without making any changes to the color. The present disclosure may accomplish this while still preserving the spectral information within the MSI image.

In another example thermal IR images are often collected at coarser GSD and benefit from fusion with a finer resolution PAN. The IR image LWIR or MWIR for instance is a single band grey image. Mixing information from a second grey level image the fine resolution PAN band produces a new grey level and the observer cannot tell whether a pixel s grey level is due to a dark region in the PAN or IR. Additionally the information in the two bands is fundamentally different. The IR band is measuring infrared radiance which depends on temperature and emissivity. The PAN band measurement depends on visible reflection. Thus enhancing the IR band with the PAN band highlights different features while preserving the information contained in both data sources.

The same disclosure can be applied to enhancing hyperspectral images HSI and polarimetric images PI . The many banded focal planes used to create HSI operate with coarser GSDs so there is tremendous benefit in fusing such data with a finer GSD band. Enhancing HSI or PI images according to the present disclosure preserves the unique character of these images while providing context through an edge display that may be turned off or on thinned out displayed as dots in a color chosen not to interfere with the interpretation of the HSI or PI data or any other manner.

The present disclosure may also enhance different images with similar or identical GSDs. An edge overlay allows an observer to compare edges in one band to another again without needing to modify the data in either band.

The present disclosure may also enhance a hard to interpret image such as a RADAR image including synthetic aperture radar SAR . These RADAR images are collected with very fine GSD but the underlying phenomenology which produces the image is complex resulting in difficult to interpret images. Using edge overlays as described herein interpretation of these complex images is simplified by the use of edge overlays which add context to the image.

Although this disclosure has been described in terms of certain embodiments and generally associated methods alterations and permutations of these embodiments and methods will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the above description of example embodiments does not define or constrain this disclosure. Other changes substitutions and alterations are also possible without departing from the spirit and scope of this disclosure.

