---

title: Merchandising of content in a prepaid environment
abstract: A system is provided. The system comprises a computer, a processor, a memory, and an application stored in the memory that, when executed by the processor, receives a message that a communications device has accessed an electronic storefront. The system also determines the amount of funds presently credited to a deposit account associated with the communications device. The system also identifies a first group of products, the first group comprising the products available from the electronic storefront with prices equal to or less than the amount of funds presently credited to the deposit account. The system also transmits pricing information about each of the first group of products to the communications device. The system also transmits instructions to the communications device on arranging the pricing information for each of the first group of products in the display of the communications device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346617&OS=08346617&RS=08346617
owner: Sprint Communications Company L.P.
number: 08346617
owner_city: Overland Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
An electronic storefront may be a virtual store that users of various types of electronic communications devices may contact to purchase goods and services. An electronic storefront or online shop eshop e store internet shop webshop webstore online store or virtual store may evoke the physical analogy of buying goods or services at a bricks and mortar retailer or in a shopping mall. Electronic storefronts may be hosted by manufacturers retailers and other vendors of goods that also may maintain physical sales locations. While electronic storefronts may be most commonly associated with the Internet and the World Wide Web electronic storefronts may be operated on other networks including private networks unrelated to the Internet. Electronic storefronts may be commercially operated on a range of bases. Electronic storefronts may be fully proprietary wherein the operator is selling only goods that the operator manufacturers and may distribute through the operator s own other channels. Electronic storefronts may by contrast have no association with a manufacturer or originator of goods and operate independent of these entities. Such electronic storefronts may sell a plurality of types of goods and services originated by many manufacturers and retailers. Such electronic storefronts may be truly virtual and may never physically handle goods sold.

In an embodiment a system is provided. The system comprises a computer a processor a memory and an application stored in the memory that when executed by the processor receives a message that a communications device has accessed an electronic storefront. The system also determines the amount of funds presently credited to a deposit account associated with the communications device. The system also identifies a first group of products the first group comprising the products available from the electronic storefront with prices equal to or less than the amount of funds presently credited to the deposit account. The system also transmits pricing information about each of the first group of products to the communications device. The system also transmits instructions to the communications device on arranging the pricing information for each of the first group of products in the display of the communications device.

In an embodiment a processor implemented method is provided. The method comprises a merchandising server detecting a communications device initiating contact with an electronic storefront. The method also comprises the merchandising server determining a balance of funds in a deposit account associated with the communications device and a services subscription account. The method also comprises the merchandising server reducing the prices of selected electronic products for sale by the electronic storefront wherein the selected electronic products bear prices higher than the balance of funds and wherein the prices are reduced to levels one of at and below the balance of funds. The method also comprises the merchandising server transmitting price information about the selected electronic products to the communications device wherein the price information comprises the reduced prices of the selected electronic products. The method also comprises the merchandising server transmitting instructions to the communications device on the manner of presentation of the price information in the display of the communications device.

In an embodiment a method is provided. The method comprises a merchandising server transmitting instructions to a communications device to present in the display of the communications device the highest priced electronic products from a first group of electronic products available for sale the first group comprising electronic products with individual prices equal to or less than a first amount of funds currently in a deposit account associated with the communications device. The method also comprises the merchandising server receiving a message from the communications device the message purchasing at least one of the presented electronic products the message further authorizing debiting the first amount of funds by the purchase price of the at least one electronic product purchased. The method also comprises the merchandising server transmitting instructions to the communications device to present a second group of electronic products in the display the second group comprising the highest priced remaining electronic products from the first group with individual prices equal to or less than a second amount of funds currently in the deposit account after the debiting.

These and other features will be more clearly understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

It should be understood at the outset that although illustrative implementations of one or more embodiments are illustrated below the disclosed systems and methods may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated below but may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with their full scope of equivalents.

The present disclosure provides a system that detects contact by a communications device with an electronic storefront determines the amount of funds on deposit under a services subscription agreement associated with the communications device and presents to the communications device the products for sale based on the amount of funds on deposit. The system may present on the communication device products for sale that are affordable given the current amount of funds on deposit and selectively may not present on the communication device other products that are not affordable based on the current amount of funds on deposit. The system may present products for sale in order based on the products affordability relative to the amount of funds currently on deposit. The system promotes a dynamic electronic storefront that presents pricing and other information based on a customer s available balance of funds. A telecommunications service provider may have a plurality of customers with prepaid subscriptions wherein the customers pay in advance for wireless and other services by remitting funds into a deposit account. The provider may charge or debit the deposit account upon usage of services or on another basis. Some customers may maintain small balances in their deposit accounts. The customers may seek to shop at an electronic storefront for ring tones or other products and may wish to pay for the products by authorizing deductions from their deposit accounts. Such customers maintaining small balances may be unable to afford some products for sale on the electronic storefront. The telecommunications service provider may choose to not present for sale the products that the customer cannot purchase given the customer s current balance in his or her deposit account. The system may present only those products that may be purchased at the present time given the customer s current balance of funds in the deposit account. The system seeks to reduce the possibility that the customer is displayed an item for sale whereupon the customer selects the item for purchase only to receive a message that the sale cannot be completed because of insufficient funds on deposit. The system may promote a positive customer experience and reduce the possibility that the customer will exit the electronic storefront without making any transaction.

The system may send pricing and other information to the communications device with instructions to arrange the information in the display of the communications device in various manners. The instructions may direct the arrangement of the information with the products priced at or immediately below the level of the deposit account depicted most prominently in the display of the communications device. Prominent depiction in the display may comprise the products initially appearing at the top or center of the display or otherwise in a position in the display wherein the user is likely to see and focus on the displayed products first. Products displayed less prominently may be depicted at the bottom of the display or may alternatively not be visible at all in the initial depiction and may only become visible by the user scrolling down the display or otherwise taking action to bring those products into view. Information about other products for example lower priced products may be sent to the communications device but may not appear in the initial depiction. As the customer makes purchases of displayed products the system may remove the information about the purchased products from the display move up or more prominently display already displayed information about other products and move into the display information about lower priced products not previously depicted.

The system additionally may implement business rules to effect price adjustments that may comprise applying discounts to a plurality of products. Once the communications device is detected as initiating a session with the electronic storefront in addition to determining the products priced at or below the current deposit balance the system may examine the prices of selected more highly priced products. The system may determine if business rules in place permit price adjustments or discounts that may reduce the sale prices of some of the more highly priced products to a level at or below the current deposit balance. If so the price adjustments or discounts may be selectively applied to those products and the adjusted pricing and other information for the products may be sent to the communications device along with pricing information for products that may not have received price adjustments. The business rules for applying price adjustments may involve a plurality of factors for example the amount of funds currently in the deposit account whether the communications device has ever visited the electronic storefront before and the overall profitability of the relationship with the user of the communications device.

Business rules applied regarding price adjustments may also take into account factors based in part on the nature of the products the customer is purchasing the quantity the customer is purchasing and the quantity that may have been sold in a particular geographic area. The business rules may also account for the customer s association with a certain company or group. Early sales to the customer may expose the products and their value to additional potential customers in the company or group and may encourage their purchase. Additional factors that may be considered by business rules comprise socioeconomic and other attributes of the customer the products being purchased the time of day and day of week and the location of the customer at the time of purchase.

Turning now to a system is provided. The system comprises a merchandising server a merchandising application a database a telecommunications service provider an electronic storefront communications devices a base transceiver station and a network .

The merchandising server is a computer system. Computer systems are discussed in detail hereinafter. The merchandising application executes on the merchandising server and is associated with the electronic storefront that sells a plurality of electronic and other products. The products may be installable on or otherwise used by the communications devices . The merchandising application detects when the communications device has contact with the electronic storefront . The merchandising application interacts with components of the telecommunications service provider to determine the balance of funds the communications device may have on deposit with the telecommunications service provider under a prepaid account for wireless communications or other services. The merchandising application may intervene in the interactions between the electronic storefront and the communications device and may present for sale only the products with sale prices at or less than the level of the balance of funds in the deposit account. The products presented for sale to the user of the communications device may be limited to those that may be purchased with the amount of funds presently on deposit with the telecommunications service provider . The merchandising application selectively may adjust the prices of some products that are priced higher than the present deposit balance reducing the sale prices of the products to or below the present deposit balance thus enabling the user of the communications device to purchase the products.

The telecommunications service provider may provide wireless communications and other services to a plurality of communications devices on a prepaid basis or on another basis. Customers with prepaid accounts may periodically remit funds in advance to the telecommunications service provider for voice short message service SMS push to talk PTT and other services accessible from the communications devices . As the customers use their communications devices to access wireless services the telecommunications service provider may charge or debit the deposit account reducing the account balance. When services usage by the communications device causes the account balance to be reduced to a predetermined level the telecommunications service provider may require the user to add funds into the account or otherwise replenish the account to a predetermined level. The merchandising server that may be operated by the telecommunications service provider may interact closely with the electronic storefront . The merchandising application may monitor the communications devices that establish contact with the electronic storefront and may identify the communications devices that have prepaid subscription accounts with the telecommunications service provider . The merchandising application then may provide information on products that could be purchased based on the current account balance to the communications devices for display.

The telecommunications service provider that may operate the electronic storefront as well as the merchandising server may discover that users of communications devices who have prepaid service plans maintain small balances of funds in their deposit accounts with the telecommunications service provider perhaps only several dollars at a time. These users may therefore be unable to purchase some of the products for sale by the electronic storefront given their present funds on deposit. The telecommunications service provider may discover that providing information about a plurality of products to communications devices that cannot be purchased at the current time may be discouraging or frustrating to some users. This may result in the users exiting from the electronic storefront without making any purchase even though a plurality of products still may be affordable. Such an experience may increase the possibility that the customer will not visit the electronic storefront again. The telecommunications service provider may conclude that it is commercially advantageous to provide information about only the products that may be sold given the current balance of funds in the deposit account associated with the communications device . Customers with prepaid service plans may find comfort in and become accustomed to knowing that each of the products displayed for sale by the electronic storefront at a given time may be purchased with the funds presently available. Shopping with this knowledge may improve the customer experience and may ultimately have a positive impact on sales even though fewer products may be displayed during a visit to the electronic storefront .

The electronic storefront may sell a plurality of products that may be used by the communications devices . The products may comprise electronic products installable on the communications devices for example ring tones music software applications and games. The products may also be tangible items such as cases within which the communications devices may be contained or other accessories. While the electronic storefront may be operated by the telecommunications service provider in some embodiments the electronic storefront may be operated by another entity. In these embodiments the telecommunications service provider and the entity operating the electronic storefront may work cooperatively to allow the user of the communications device to pay for products purchased from the electronic storefront with funds on deposit with the telecommunications service provider . In the discussion and examples provided henceforth the telecommunications service provider may operate the merchandising server and the electronic storefront and the merchandising server and the electronic storefront may share some software and hardware components.

The merchandising application detects or is notified when the communications device makes contact with the electronic storefront . The merchandising application may examine records stored in the database associated with the merchandising server to determine the type of account that the communications device has with the telecommunications service provider . Coding included in messages sent by the communications device may indicate the type of account. The merchandising application may discover that the communications device has a prepaid account with the telecommunications service provider . Under a prepaid account the user of the communications device pays funds into the deposit account first and is thereafter allowed to use services under the subscription. The telecommunications service provider may draw funds from the account upon each use of services or on another basis. The user may replenish funds in the deposit account on a periodic basis or when the balance of the account drops to or below a predetermined level.

After the merchandising application determines that the communications device contacting the electronic storefront has a prepaid account the merchandising application may then determine the present balance of the prepaid account. Depending on the present balance the merchandising application may send a message to the electronic storefront instructing it to generate a listing of only products with selling prices at or below the present balance of the prepaid account of the communications device . In an embodiment the merchandising application may interact with an application programming interface API of the electronic storefront such that the functionality of the merchandising application and the functionality of the electronic storefront may be tightly integrated. After it is determined that the communications device has a prepaid account presently in effect and the account contains a quantity of funds permitting the communications device to purchase at least one product the merchandising application may effectively take over control of some functionality of the electronic storefront and become its front end to the communications device .

After the products for sale by the electronic storefront with selling prices at or below the current deposit balance of the communications device have been identified the merchandising application determines the order sequence or other manner in which information about the products is to be displayed by the communications device . Price information would be listed and depending on the type of products only a text description may be provided an image of the product may be provided if applicable or some other representation may be provided. In some cases the quantity of products with purchase prices equal to or less than the current deposit balance may be such that pricing and other information for all such products cannot be simultaneously presented in the display of the communications device . The merchandising application first may provide information to the communications device for display about the products with selling prices equal to the current deposit balance. If there are not enough products with selling prices equal to the current deposit balance to fill the available space of the display the merchandising application then may instruct the communications device to list the next highest priced products. The telecommunications service provider may wish to maximize its revenue from the electronic storefront while not providing information about products that the user of the communications device cannot purchase given his or her current deposit balance. When the communications device makes a purchase during a session with the electronic storefront the merchandising application may cause the communications device to move pricing information about additional products into the display.

The merchandising application selectively may adjust the prices of some products through discounting or other methods to permit a communications device to purchase a product with a price higher than its current deposit balance. The telecommunications service provider may institute business rules or policies to apply price adjustments or discounts for some users some communications devices some products on sale or combinations thereof and or when other predetermined conditions are met. The telecommunications service provider may build flexibility into its pricing such that it may make adjustments in some cases if a user of a communications device appears particularly interested in a certain product or may purchase a large quantity of products. A communications device may have a current deposit balance that is so small that it is less than the selling prices of all products for sale by the electronic storefront . The telecommunications service provider may not want the user of the communications device to be turned away from the electronic storefront and be unable to complete a purchase. It may be that user s first time ever visiting the electronic storefront or the user may be young or new to ownership of a communications device .

In other cases the telecommunications service provider may have excessive inventory of some products on hand and may decide to reduce prices to stimulate sales of these products and reduce its inventory. When policies are in effect that permit price adjustments the merchandising application may select and present to the communications device products whose regular prices are higher than the current deposit balance of the communications device . Should the user of the communications device choose one of the more highly priced products the merchandising application may apply a discount or other method of price adjustment to reduce the price to the level of the current deposit balance allowing the sale to be completed. In at least one embodiment the merchandising application may present products with their prices already discounted and therefore not need to apply a discount after the products are selected for purchase.

The database is associated with the merchandising server and may contain a plurality of records used by the telecommunications service provider the merchandising application and the electronic storefront . The database may store information about deposit accounts held by the telecommunications service provider for communications devices on prepaid subscription plans. The database may store historical information about the usage of wireless communication and other services by communications devices under prepaid subscription plans and other programs. The database may store information about business rules that describe adjustments to prices of products that may be permitted under some circumstances. The database may store information about business agreements with third party vendors of products for example ring tones music games and applications wherein the business agreements describe pricing of the products by the telecommunications service provider or other operator of the merchandising server and the electronic storefront and permitted adjustments to the pricing of the products.

The communications devices may be mobile telephones personal digital assistants PDA and media players. While much of the discussion herein may describe the communications devices as mobile portable and wireless communications devices in an embodiment the communications devices may communicate with the other components of the system using wired connections.

The electronic storefront may be a software application executing on a computer. The electronic storefront may execute on the merchandising server or may execute on a different computer. In an embodiment the merchandising application and the electronic storefront may share some components and components of the merchandising application may perform some functionality of the electronic storefront .

The base transceiver station may be any of a cellular wireless base station for example a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM a Universal Mobile Communications System UMTS and or Long term Evolution LTE cellular wireless base station a Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX base station a WiFi access point a femtocell or other wireless access devices. While depicts only one base transceiver station in an embodiment a plurality of base transceiver stations may be existent and in operation.

The network promotes communication between the components of the system . The network may be any communication network including a public data network PDN a public switched telephone network PSTN a private network and or a combination.

In an embodiment the merchandizing application may determine a minimum balance that may allow the customer to conduct a predefined amount of further communication such as prepaid phone calls and or prepaid text messages. The predefined amount of further communication may be five additional voice calls ten additional voice calls fifteen additional voice calls or the like. Likewise the predefined amount of further communication may be ten additional text messages twenty additional text messages thirty additional text messages or the like. The predefined of further communication may be based on a combination of communication types for example five additional voice calls and ten additional text messages ten additional voice calls and twenty additional text messages or other combinations. The merchandizing application may further determine a purchasing balance as a difference between the current account balance and the minimum balance. The merchandizing application may then perform the calculations and functions described above based on the purchasing balance rather than the account balance. In this embodiment the system may avoid encouraging the subscriber to fully deplete their prepaid account balance thereby leaving them without communication services until they perform a top up to replenish funds in their prepaid account balance.

The merchandising application comprises the initiation component that recognizes when the communications device contacts the electronic storefront to begin shopping for products. The communications device may initiate the session using a browser application executing on the communications device to access the electronic storefront that may be an Internet site operated by the telecommunications service provider . The communications device may use another means to access the electronic storefront for example an agent or a client interface on the communications device . The initiation component may interact with components of the electronic storefront to identify when communications devices access the electronic storefront. The initiation component may examine coding associated with communications devices or aspects of their electronic transmissions to determine the account types of subscriptions associated with communications devices . The initiation component may determine when a communications device is associated with a prepaid subscription plan with the telecommunications service provider wherein the user of the communications device remits funds into a deposit account in advance of using communications and other services. The telecommunications service provider may debit or charge the deposit account upon each use of services or on another basis. The user of the communications device may replenish the deposit account with funds when the balance in the account drops to a predetermined level. The user may alternatively deposit funds into the account periodically per the user s agreement with the telecommunications service provider regardless of the balance of the account.

After determining that the communications device is associated with a prepaid subscription plan provided by the telecommunications service provider the initiation component may determine the present balance of the deposit account to determine the amount that the communications device may spend during its present visit to the electronic storefront . The initiation component may consult the database or other secure source to determine the present balance of the deposit account. In an embodiment the balance of the deposit account may change frequently as the user of the communications device uses services to make phone calls exchange short message service messages also known as text messages and use other services. In an embodiment the user of the communications device also may have authorized the telecommunications service provider to automatically debit the user s bank account or charge a credit card of the user to replenish the balance. In an embodiment the exact balance of deposit at the moment the communications device makes contact with the electronic storefront may not be determined because of processing delays and an average balance or balance at the end of the previous hour or other time period for example may be considered the present balance of the deposit account. In an embodiment the merchandising application may send a message to the communications device with a prompt or reminder to add funds to the deposit account.

After determining the present balance of the deposit account of the communications device the initiation component determines the products for sale by the electronic storefront with sale prices equal to or less than the present balance of the deposit account. These products may be electronic products executable on the communications device such as applications or ring tones or may be tangible products usable in conjunction with the communications device such as casing or other accessories. In an embodiment the products may not be directly associated with the communications device . The initiation component uses the present balance to identify the products that may be purchased by the communications device . Depending on the nature of the products the initiation component also assembles the information that may comprise pricing as well as product information and images in preparation for sending the information about the products to the communications device .

The merchandising application also comprises the presentation component that sends the information about products selected by the initiation component to the communications device for presentation by the display of the communications device . The presentation component may direct that the products with sale prices equal to the deposit account balance or with sale prices closest to but not exceeding the deposit account balance are presented first in the display followed by the next most expensive products in descending order as the user navigates through the listing. The presentation component may direct that only text information describing the selected products is displayed the text information providing the name of the product and the price of the product. The presentation component may direct that images may be included in the information sent to the communications device . The images may comprise a logo or other symbol representing a software application for example that may be sold. The images may comprise photographs or other depictions of artists that created music that may be sold. The images may comprise selectable icons or other symbols that when clicked on or otherwise activated play brief sound bites representing samples of ring tones that may be for sale.

The presentation component may detect information about the communications device such as technical specifications of the display or other hardware components of the communications device . If a web browser executing on the communications device is used to contact the electronic storefront the presentation component may detect information provided by a web agent associated with the web browser. The web agent may describe the screen resolution processing power execution environment operating system and other information specific to the communications device . The presentation component may use this information to determine the instructions to provide to the communications device in presenting the product information about products that the communications device may purchase using the funds presently in the deposit account.

The merchandising application also comprises the adjustment component that may consult business rules and implement price adjustments that may be permitted by the business rules. This may allow a price of a product to be reduced for example by applying a discount to the current level of the deposit account associated with the communications device . Some users of communications devices may maintain low balances in their deposit accounts and may therefore be unable to afford some of the products sold by the electronic storefront . A user with a balance of 3.00 in his deposit account for example may wish to purchase a ring tone with a sale price of 4.00. The adjustment component may examine business rules associated with the ring tone and determine from the business rules that a 1.00 discount is permitted on the ring tone thus permitting the price to be reduced from 4.00 to 3.00 and displaying the ring tone for purchase at 3.00 and hence the customer being able to follow through with purchasing the ring tone.

The telecommunications service provider may have business agreements with a plurality of outside entities that produce or sell electronic and other products that may be installed and used on or with the communications device . The business agreements may recommend pricing for the products and may describe allowed or agreed price reductions for the products the price reductions expressed in terms of percentages off original selling price actual dollar amounts that may be discounted from the original selling price or other method of expression of adjustment. The adjustment component may consult these business agreements when it is determined that the customer has a low present deposit balance when the customer may be inclined to purchase products that may be somewhat more expensive than the customer may presently afford when the customer is new or has some other status. The adjustment component selectively may selectively price adjustments in the form of discounts or other measures to bring the selling price to or below the level of the balance in the deposit account of the communications device .

The adjustment component may work with the initiation component when the communications device initiates contact with the electronic storefront to determine if it may be necessary or appropriate to apply price adjustments to products. The adjustment component may work with the presentation component after products have been chosen to determine how the chosen products should be presented. This may be the case when some products chosen for presentation to the communications device have received price adjustments and some chosen products have not received price adjustments.

The merchandising application also comprises the transaction component that works with the electronic storefront to complete a sale transaction with the communications device . After the initiation component determines the balance of funds in the deposit account of the communications device and determines the products to present after the adjustment component applies directed price adjustments and after the presentation component presents the information for viewing the transaction component may receive notification that the communications device has chosen to make a purchase. The transaction component may calculate the new balance of funds in the deposit account after the sale is complete. The transaction component may also work with the initiation component the presentation component and the adjustment component to determine how information about the products should be presented to the communications device for display after the transaction is completed. The information about the product involved in the sale will be removed from the display of the communications device and information about at least one product that did not previously appear in the display may be moved into the display and become visible to the user.

The transaction component working with the other components of the system will consider how the balance of the deposit account has changed in determining what products are best shown in the display of the communications device . Changes in the balance of the deposit account may prompt changes by the adjustment component in drawing on business agreements stored in the database that describe business rules about applying price adjustments and other discounts. Such changes in pricing and accessibility to products may also call for the presentation component to change the arrangement of products in the display of the communications device .

Turning now to a processor implemented method is provided. At block a merchandising server detects a communications device initiating contact with an electronic storefront. At block the merchandising server determines a balance of funds in a deposit account associated with the communications device and a services subscription account.

At block the merchandising server reduces the prices of selected electronic products for sale by the electronic storefront wherein the selected electronic products bear prices higher than the balance of funds and wherein the prices are reduced to levels one of at and below the balance of funds. At block the merchandising server transmits price information about the selected electronic products to the communications device wherein the price information comprises the reduced prices of the selected electronic products. At block the merchandising server transmits instructions to the communications device on the manner of presentation of the price information in the display of the mobile device.

Turning now to a processor implemented method is provided. At block a merchandising server transmits instructions to a communications device to present in the display the highest priced electronic products from a first group of electronic products available for sale the first group comprising electronic products with individual prices equal to or less than a first amount of funds currently in a deposit account associated with the communications device. The merchandising application executing on the merchandising server sends instructions to the communications device to present products with individual prices that are equal to or less than the amount of funds currently in a deposit account maintained by the user or subscriber associated with the communications device . In an embodiment the products may have original or list prices higher than the current amount of funds in the deposit account. The merchandising application may at the election of the telecommunications service provider apply discounts to the products that reduce the sale prices to the level of or below the current amount of funds in the deposit account. In an embodiment the merchandising application as previously described may present products with sale prices at or below a difference between the current account balance and a minimum account balance as described further above.

The first group may comprise a quantity of electronic products with sale prices at or below the first amount of funds currently in the deposit account that is too large for the communications device to display all at once. When this is the case the method directs that the products to be displayed first and most prominently are those equal to or just slightly less than the current amount of funds in the deposit account. If the products priced at the level of the current amount of funds are too numerous to be simultaneously displayed by the communications device the merchandising application may use other criteria to determine the products that should be displayed such as the products that the telecommunications service provider most wishes to sell. If there is still space remaining in the display of the communication device after these products are displayed then the remaining space is to be populated with products priced immediately below the first or current amount of funds in the deposit account with the most expensive of those products to be displayed most prominently.

At block the merchandising server receives a first message from the communications device the first message purchasing at least one of the presented electronic products the first message further authorizing debiting the first amount of funds by the purchase price of the at least one electronic product purchased. At block the communications device purchases at least one of the electronic products offered for sale at block .

At block the merchandising server transmits instructions to the communications device to present a second group of electronic products in the display the second group comprising the highest priced remaining electronic products from the first group with individual prices equal to or less than a second amount of funds currently in the deposit account after the debiting. Because the second amount of funds is less than the first amount of funds some products in the first group no longer may be affordable and therefore are not included in the second group. In addition some of the products in the second group may not have been displayed at block because the quantity of products determined at block exceeded the display capacity of the communications device . Those products in the first group not displayed at block may have had individual prices equal to the first amount of funds but were not directed for display because there were too many such products. In addition some products in the first group may have low prices and were not displayed at block since the merchandising application presents the highest price products first starting with those priced at the level of the current amount of funds in the deposit account. As part of directing the communications device on populating its display with information about products in the second group at block the instructions may direct the inclusion of products that were not included at block because they had low prices. The sale of products at block effectively frees space in the display of the communications device and allows products not displayed at block to be displayed at block .

The mobile device includes a display and a touch sensitive surface and or keys for input by a user. The mobile device may present options for the user to select controls for the user to actuate and or cursors or other indicators for the user to direct. The mobile device may further accept data entry from the user including numbers to dial or various parameter values for configuring the operation of the handset. The mobile device may further execute one or more software or firmware applications in response to user commands. These applications may configure the mobile device to perform various customized functions in response to user interaction. Additionally the mobile device may be programmed and or configured over the air for example from a wireless base station a wireless access point or a peer mobile device .

The DSP or some other form of controller or central processing unit operates to control the various components of the mobile device in accordance with embedded software or firmware stored in memory or stored in memory contained within the DSP itself. In addition to the embedded software or firmware the DSP may execute other applications stored in the memory or made available via information carrier media such as portable data storage media like the removable memory card or via wired or wireless network communications. The application software may comprise a compiled set of machine readable instructions that configure the DSP to provide the desired functionality or the application software may be high level software instructions to be processed by an interpreter or compiler to indirectly configure the DSP .

The antenna and front end unit may be provided to convert between wireless signals and electrical signals enabling the mobile device to send and receive information from a radio access network RAN or some other available wireless communications network or from a peer mobile device . In an embodiment the antenna and front end unit may include multiple antennas to support beam forming and or multiple input multiple output MIMO operations. As is known to those skilled in the art MIMO operations may provide spatial diversity which can be used to overcome difficult channel conditions and or increase channel throughput. The antenna and front end unit may include antenna tuning and or impedance matching components RF power amplifiers and or low noise amplifiers.

The RF transceiver provides frequency shifting converting received RF signals to baseband and converting baseband transmit signals to RF. In some descriptions a radio transceiver or RF transceiver may be understood to include other signal processing functionality such as modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions. For the purposes of clarity the description here separates the description of this signal processing from the RF and or radio stage and conceptually allocates that signal processing to the analog baseband processing unit and or the DSP or other central processing unit. In some embodiments the RF transceiver portions of the antenna and front end and the analog baseband processing unit may be combined in one or more processing units and or application specific integrated circuits ASICs .

The analog baseband processing unit may provide various analog processing of inputs and outputs for example analog processing of inputs from the microphone and the headset port and outputs to the earpiece speaker and the headset port . To that end the analog baseband processing unit may have ports for connecting to the built in microphone and the earpiece speaker that enable the mobile device to be used as a mobile phone. The analog baseband processing unit may further include a port for connecting to a headset or other hands free microphone and speaker configuration. The analog baseband processing unit may provide digital to analog conversion in one signal direction and analog to digital conversion in the opposing signal direction. In some embodiments at least some of the functionality of the analog baseband processing unit may be provided by digital processing components for example by the DSP or by other central processing units.

The DSP may perform modulation demodulation coding decoding interleaving deinterleaving spreading despreading inverse fast Fourier transforming IFFT fast Fourier transforming FFT cyclic prefix appending removal and other signal processing functions associated with wireless communications. In an embodiment for example in a code division multiple access CDMA technology application for a transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving and spreading and for a receiver function the DSP may perform despreading deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In another embodiment for example in an orthogonal frequency division multiplex access OFDMA technology application for the transmitter function the DSP may perform modulation coding interleaving inverse fast Fourier transforming and cyclic prefix appending and for a receiver function the DSP may perform cyclic prefix removal fast Fourier transforming deinterleaving decoding and demodulation. In other wireless technology applications yet other signal processing functions and combinations of signal processing functions may be performed by the DSP .

The DSP may communicate with a wireless network via the analog baseband processing unit . In some embodiments the communication may provide Internet connectivity enabling a user to gain access to content on the Internet and to send and receive e mail or text messages. The input output interface interconnects the DSP and various memories and interfaces. The memory and the removable memory card may provide software and data to configure the operation of the DSP . Among the interfaces may be the USB port and the infrared port . The USB port may enable the mobile device to function as a peripheral device to exchange information with a personal computer or other computer system. The infrared port and other optional ports such as a Bluetooth interface or an IEEE 802.11 compliant wireless interface may enable the mobile device to communicate wirelessly with other nearby handsets and or wireless base stations.

The input output interface may further connect the DSP to the vibrator that when triggered causes the mobile device to vibrate. The vibrator may serve as a mechanism for silently alerting the user to any of various events such as an incoming call a new text message and an appointment reminder.

The keypad couples to the DSP via the interface to provide one mechanism for the user to make selections enter information and otherwise provide input to the mobile device . Another input mechanism may be the touch screen LCD which may also display text and or graphics to the user. The touch screen LCD controller couples the DSP to the touch screen LCD .

The CCD camera enables the mobile device to take digital pictures. The DSP communicates with the CCD camera via the camera controller . The GPS sensor is coupled to the DSP to decode global positioning system signals thereby enabling the mobile device to determine its position. In another embodiment a camera operating according to a technology other than charge coupled device cameras may be employed. Various other peripherals may also be included to provide additional functions e.g. radio and television reception.

It is understood that by programming and or loading executable instructions onto the computer system at least one of the CPU the RAM and the ROM are changed transforming the computer system in part into a particular machine or apparatus having the novel functionality taught by the present disclosure. It is fundamental to the electrical engineering and software engineering arts that functionality that can be implemented by loading executable software into a computer can be converted to a hardware implementation by well known design rules. Decisions between implementing a concept in software versus hardware typically hinge on considerations of stability of the design and numbers of units to be produced rather than any issues involved in translating from the software domain to the hardware domain. Generally a design that is still subject to frequent change may be preferred to be implemented in software because re spinning a hardware implementation is more expensive than re spinning a software design. Generally a design that is stable that will be produced in large volume may be preferred to be implemented in hardware for example in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC because for large production runs the hardware implementation may be less expensive than the software implementation. Often a design may be developed and tested in a software form and later transformed by well known design rules to an equivalent hardware implementation in an application specific integrated circuit that hardwires the instructions of the software. In the same manner as a machine controlled by a new ASIC is a particular machine or apparatus likewise a computer that has been programmed and or loaded with executable instructions may be viewed as a particular machine or apparatus.

The secondary storage is typically comprised of one or more disk drives or tape drives and is used for non volatile storage of data and as an over flow data storage device if RAM is not large enough to hold all working data. Secondary storage may be used to store programs which are loaded into RAM when such programs are selected for execution. The ROM is used to store instructions and perhaps data which are read during program execution. ROM is a non volatile memory device which typically has a small memory capacity relative to the larger memory capacity of secondary storage . The RAM is used to store volatile data and perhaps to store instructions. Access to both ROM and RAM is typically faster than to secondary storage . The secondary storage the RAM and or the ROM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory storage and or non transitory computer readable media.

I O devices may include printers video monitors liquid crystal displays LCDs touch screen displays keyboards keypads switches dials mice track balls voice recognizers card readers paper tape readers or other well known input devices.

The network connectivity devices may take the form of modems modem banks Ethernet cards universal serial bus USB interface cards serial interfaces token ring cards fiber distributed data interface FDDI cards wireless local area network WLAN cards radio transceiver cards such as code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM long term evolution LTE worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX and or other air interface protocol radio transceiver cards and other well known network devices. These network connectivity devices may enable the processor to communicate with an Internet or one or more intranets. With such a network connection it is contemplated that the processor might receive information from the network or might output information to the network in the course of performing the above described method steps. Such information which is often represented as a sequence of instructions to be executed using processor may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data signal embodied in a carrier wave.

Such information which may include data or instructions to be executed using processor for example may be received from and outputted to the network for example in the form of a computer data baseband signal or signal embodied in a carrier wave. The baseband signal or signal embodied in the carrier wave generated by the network connectivity devices may propagate in or on the surface of electrical conductors in coaxial cables in waveguides in an optical conduit for example an optical fiber or in the air or free space. The information contained in the baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be ordered according to different sequences as may be desirable for either processing or generating the information or transmitting or receiving the information. The baseband signal or signal embedded in the carrier wave or other types of signals currently used or hereafter developed may be generated according to several methods well known to one skilled in the art. The baseband signal and or signal embedded in the carrier wave may be referred to in some contexts as a transitory signal.

The processor executes instructions codes computer programs scripts which it accesses from hard disk floppy disk optical disk these various disk based systems may all be considered secondary storage ROM RAM or the network connectivity devices . While only one processor is shown multiple processors may be present. Thus while instructions may be discussed as executed by a processor the instructions may be executed simultaneously serially or otherwise executed by one or multiple processors. Instructions codes computer programs scripts and or data that may be accessed from the secondary storage for example hard drives floppy disks optical disks and or other device the ROM and or the RAM may be referred to in some contexts as non transitory instructions and or non transitory information.

In an embodiment the computer system may comprise two or more computers in communication with each other that collaborate to perform a task. For example but not by way of limitation an application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of the instructions of the application. Alternatively the data processed by the application may be partitioned in such a way as to permit concurrent and or parallel processing of different portions of a data set by the two or more computers. In an embodiment virtualization software may be employed by the computer system to provide the functionality of a number of servers that is not directly bound to the number of computers in the computer system . For example virtualization software may provide twenty virtual servers on four physical computers. In an embodiment the functionality disclosed above may be provided by executing the application and or applications in a cloud computing environment. Cloud computing may comprise providing computing services via a network connection using dynamically scalable computing resources. Cloud computing may be supported at least in part by virtualization software. A cloud computing environment may be established by an enterprise and or may be hired on an as needed basis from a third party provider. Some cloud computing environments may comprise cloud computing resources owned and operated by the enterprise as well as cloud computing resources hired and or leased from a third party provider.

In an embodiment some or all of the functionality disclosed above may be provided as a computer program product. The computer program product may comprise one or more computer readable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied therein implementing the functionality disclosed above. The computer program product may comprise data data structures files executable instructions and other information. The computer program product may be embodied in removable computer storage media and or non removable computer storage media. The removable computer readable storage medium may comprise without limitation a paper tape a magnetic tape magnetic disk an optical disk a solid state memory chip for example analog magnetic tape compact disk read only memory CD ROM disks floppy disks jump drives digital cards multimedia cards and others. The computer program product may be suitable for loading by the computer system at least portions of the contents of the computer program product to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system . The processor may process the executable instructions and or data in part by directly accessing the computer program product for example by reading from a CD ROM disk inserted into a disk drive peripheral of the computer system . The computer program product may comprise instructions that promote the loading and or copying of data data structures files and or executable instructions to the secondary storage to the ROM to the RAM and or to other non volatile memory and volatile memory of the computer system .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

Also techniques systems subsystems and methods described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discrete or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules techniques or methods without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as directly coupled or communicating with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicating through some interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitutions and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

