---

title: Verifiable trust for data through wrapper composition
abstract: A digital escrow pattern for data services can include selective access for obscured data at a remote site or in a cloud service, distributing trust across multiple entities to avoid a single point of data compromise. Based on the pattern, a “trustworthy envelope” for any kind of payload enables curtained access through a variety of decorations or seals placed on the envelope that allow for a gamut of trust ranging with guarantees such as, but not limited to, confidentiality, privacy, anonymity, tamper detection, integrity, etc. Verifiable trust is provided through families of techniques that are referred to as wrapper composition. Multiple concentric and/or lateral transform wrappers or layers can wholly or partially transform data, metadata or both to mathematical transform (e.g., encrypt, distribute across storage, obscure) or otherwise introduce lack of visibility to some or all of the data, metadata or both.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09537650&OS=09537650&RS=09537650
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09537650
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100708
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 286 654 filed on Dec. 15 2009 entitled VERIFIABLE TRUST FOR DATA THROUGH WRAPPER COMPOSITION the entirety of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to providing trustworthy computing and data services for device s such as network or cloud services and more specifically to data or network services applying composite wrapper s for transforming data metadata or both.

By way of background concerning some conventional systems computing devices have traditionally executed applications and data services locally to the device. In such case as data is accessed processed stored cached etc. the data may travel on the device over local buses interfaces and other data pathways however the user of the device has not had to worry about interference or exposure of user data unless the device itself is lost stolen or otherwise compromised.

The evolution of network storage farms capable of storing terabytes of data with potential for petabytes exabytes etc. of data in the future has created an opportunity to mimic applications that have historically operated against local data but instead operating against data stored in the cloud with separation of the primary device and the external storage. Cloud storage of application or system or any data allow many devices to store their data without the need for separate dedicated storage for each device.

Yet with the evolution of on line and cloud services applications and services are increasingly being moved to third party network providers who perform some or all of a given service on behalf of device s . In such case the user of the device s may become concerned with who can access or potentially worse interfere with the user s data while it is uploaded to a service while it is stored or processed by the service or while it is retrieved from the service. In short when the data of a user s device leaves the domain of physical possession and enters a network environment physically away from the user a concern over sloppy or malicious handling of or interference with the data by third parties arises. Accordingly it is desirable to increase the trust security and privacy for cloud services and the handling of data in connection with cloud services. Similar concerns can arise over the storage of data even within an enterprise for instance where the data leaves one region of control e.g. first division where the data is generated and enters another e.g. second division for storage.

However as alluded to above the problem remains that no cloud service or network storage provider has been able to effectively alleviate the problems of and demands for security privacy and integrity of the data while stored in the cloud. In short users require elevated trust that their data remains secure and private when physical control over the storage vehicle is surrendered and this hurdle has significantly prevented enterprises and consumers from adopting the backup of important data via third party network services and solutions.

The above described deficiencies of today s devices and data services provided to devices are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of one or more of the exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

Network or cloud data services including mathematical transformation techniques such as searchable encryption deassembling reassembling or distribution techniques for data are provided in a way that distributes trust across multiple entities to avoid a single point of data compromise and decouples data protection requirements from the container s in which the data may be stored processed accessed or retrieved. In one embodiment a mathematical transformation predicate generator e.g. a key generator a mathematical transformation provider e.g. a cryptographic technology provider and a cloud services provider are each provided as separate entities enabling a trustworthy platform for publishers of data to publish data confidentially obscured e.g. encrypted to a cloud services provider and enabling selective access to the obscured e.g. encrypted data to authorized subscribers based on subscriber capabilities.

Using a trustworthy platform a method for hosting data comprising can include receiving data or metadata associated with the data where the data the metadata or both are protected by a composite wrapper formed from at least one mathematical transformation of the data defining a first wrapper for the data the metadata or both based on a first set of criteria and a second mathematical transformation defining a second wrapper for the data the metadata or both based on a second set of criteria. The method further includes requesting access to the data metadata or both as protected by the composite wrapper based on a set of capabilities included in the request. Capabilities can be any kind of access information e.g. a reconstruction map a cryptographic key decoding tool etc. Based on the set of capabilities access privileges are determined for the data metadata or both based on evaluating visibility through the first wrapper and independently evaluating visibility through the second wrapper.

In a non limiting embodiment a system can include mathematical transformation component s distributed at least partially by a mathematical transformation technology provider implemented independently from an access information generator that generates capability information for publishing data metadata or both or subscribing to published data published metadata or both the mathematical transformation component s including at least one processor configured to grant access based on the access information. A network service provider implemented independently from the access information generator and the mathematical transformation technology provider includes at least one processor configured to implement a network service with respect to computer data computer metadata or both transformed by the mathematical transformation component s the network service provider is configured to communicate with the mathematical transformation component s to perform generation regeneration or deletion of cryptographic wrapper s applied to the computer data computer metadata or both.

Using the techniques of a trustworthy platform data and associated metadata is decoupled from the containers that hold the data e.g. file systems databases etc. enabling the data to act as its own custodian through imposition of a shroud of mathematical complexity that is pierced with presented capabilities such as keys granted by a cryptographic key generator of a trust platform as on non limiting example. Sharing of or access to the data or a subset of that data is facilitated in a manner that preserves and extends trust without the need for particular containers for enforcement. The mathematical complexities such as searchable encryption techniques applied to the data protect the data without regard to the container or hardware in which the particular bits are recorded i.e. the data is protected containerlessly or without regard to the container and is thus not subject to attack on the basis of a compromise of container security. If the particular safe is cracked the contents are still protected.

In one non limiting embodiment extensible markup language XML data is the data acting as its own custodian. With XML data tags can be augmented or added with description information that selectively enables or prevents access to the underlying data enabling the XML data or XML data fragments as encapsulated by tag information in the trust envelope applied to the XML data or fragments to act as its own custodian. XML data or tags can for instance represent searchable metadata that encodes any one or more of authentication information authorization information schemas information history information trace information consistency information etc. It is noted that any of the embodiments based on XML can also apply to a range of alternate formats such as but not limited to JaysScript Object Notation JSON S Expressions electronic data interchange EDI etc. and thus XML is merely used for illustrative purposes in such embodiments.

A trusted envelope for any kind of payload such as but not limited to database fields XML fragments or full records thus provides curtained access through a variety of decorations or seals placed on the envelope that allow for a gamut of trust ranging with guarantees such as but not limited to confidentiality privacy anonymity tamper detection integrity etc. For instance XML tags can be applied or augmented to create trust envelopes for structured XML data a common format used for data exchange in networked environments enabling containerless XML data in a trustworthy cloud services environment.

Some other examples of cryptographic techniques or decorations that can be applied to facilitate establishing a high level of trust over security and privacy of data include but are not limited to size preserving encryption searchable encryption or Proof s of Application blind fingerprints Proof s of Retrievability etc.

Other embodiments and various non limiting examples scenarios and implementations are described in more detail below.

As discussed in the background data sent to a network service can create discomfort with respect to privacy potential for tampering etc. e.g. when data is transmitted from a user s device to a network application service or data store a user desires sufficient assurance that no malevolent third party can cause harm. By definition the user has lost control over the data. It is thus desirable to increase trust so that publishers and or owners of data are willing to surrender physical control over their data trusting that their data will remain private and inviolate while in the network except when accessed by the publishers and or owners or to anyone to whom privileges have been granted as verified based on requester identity.

In this regard the problem remains that no cloud service or network storage provider has been able to effectively alleviate the problems of and demands for security privacy and integrity of the data while stored in the cloud. In short users are interested in elevated trust that their data remains secure and private when physical control over the storage vehicle is surrendered and this hurdle has significantly prevented enterprises and consumers from adopting the backup of important data via third party network services and solutions.

As used herein the term network storage provide includes but is not limited to content delivery or distribution networks CDNs hybrid scenarios e.g. spanning enterprise storage cloud storage and or CDNs and or broader federation scenarios e.g. spanning multiple enterprises multiple clouds or multiple CDNs or any combinations of the foregoing.

Traditionally to keep data safe data has been locked away or kept underground e.g. on a physical medium. In this regard the data owner knows that the custodian of the safe has to be a completely trustworthy party or have no access to the contents of the safe. In this regard while the premise of cloud services has been that customers do not necessarily need to know exactly where their data is physically located it is not true that the question can be entirely ignored. This is because it has been a challenge to take full responsibility for who what devices can access the data who sees the data who maintains the data and how it is stored. Accordingly in reality customers have cared a lot about who the third parties are who are controlling the various computing and storage devices in the cloud chain due to inherent mistrust and a variety of other concerns.

Eliminating human or external entity controlled active custodianships which have inherent biases that may not be congruent with data owners or publishers various embodiments herein provide a system where data is transformed mathematically e.g. selectively encrypted or searchably encrypted such that the data acts as a custodian for itself regardless of the third party machine s mechanism s device s or container s holding the data. In this respect various implementations of a federated trust overlay enable containerless data along with guarantees of security confidentiality tamper proof etc. which are made transparent to the user.

Accordingly in various embodiments a trustworthy cloud platform is used to host data including receiving data or metadata associated with the data where the data the metadata or both are protected by a composite wrapper formed from mathematical transformation of the data the metadata or both including at least a first mathematical transformation defining a first wrapper for the data the metadata or both based on a first set of criteria and a second mathematical transformation defining a second wrapper for the data the metadata or both based on a second set of criteria. An entity can make a request for access to the data metadata or both as protected by the composite wrapper based on a set of capabilities included in the request. Based on the set of capabilities access privilege s can be determined for the data metadata or both based on evaluating visibility through the first wrapper and independently evaluating visibility through the second wrapper.

The receiving can include receiving the data or metadata protected by the composite wrapper formed from the mathematical transformation s including the first mathematical transformation defining the first wrapper that wraps less than all of the data the metadata or both based on the first set of criteria.

The receiving can include receiving the data or metadata protected by the composite wrapper formed from the mathematical transformation s including the first mathematical transformation defining the first wrapper that wraps the data the metadata or both based on the first set of criteria and the second mathematical transformation defining the second wrapper that wraps the data metadata or both as wrapped by the first wrapper.

The receiving can include receiving the data the metadata or both protected by the composite wrapper formed at least in part from mathematical algorithm s enabling the first or second wrapper to at least partially decompose after satisfaction of an implicitly or explicitly defined condition. The receiving can include receiving the data the metadata or both protected by the composite wrapper formed at least in part from mathematical algorithm s enabling at least one of the first and second wrapper to allow full access to the data the metadata or both after satisfaction of the implicitly or explicitly defined condition.

The receiving can include receiving the data the metadata or both protected by the composite wrapper formed at least in part from mathematical algorithm s enabling selective opacity over the data the metadata or both.

The receiving can include receiving the data the metadata or both protected by the composite wrapper formed at least in part from mathematical algorithm s including first and second mathematical transformations forming first and second wrappers based on first and second sets of criteria respectively the first or second set of criteria including at least one of a representation of cryptographic key information information asserting evidence of a role type of the data the metadata or both type of associations of the data the metadata or both or information asserting evidence of possession of at least one claim.

The receiving can include receiving data or metadata protected by a composite wrapper formed from a searchable encryption algorithm. The receiving can include receiving the data metadata or both by device s in a first region of control from device s in a second region of control.

The receiving can include receiving the data metadata or both formed from analyzing the data metadata or both and encrypting an output of the analyzing based on the cryptographic key information. The receiving the request for access to the data metadata or both can include receiving trapdoor data enabling visible access to the data metadata or both as defined by cryptographic trapdoor s of the trapdoor data.

The receiving can include receiving the data the metadata or both protected by the composite wrapper formed from the mathematical transformation s of the data the metadata or both including the first mathematical transformation forming the first wrapper for the data and the second mathematical transformation forming the second wrapper for the metadata.

In other embodiments the receiving can include receiving the data or metadata protected by the composite wrapper formed from the mathematical transformation s including the first mathematical transformation defining the first wrapper that wraps less than all of the data the metadata or both based on the first set of criteria and the second mathematical transformation defining the second wrapper that wraps all the data metadata or both.

The second wrapper can wrap all the data metadata or both as partially wrapped by the first wrapper. The receiving can include receiving the data the metadata or both protected by the composite wrapper composed by complementary wrappers including at least the first and second wrapper for satisfying complementary trust or security criteria.

In one embodiment if a status of the data the metadata or both changes to a new status additional wrapper s are automatically added appropriate to a new set of criteria associated with the new status. Alternatively additional wrapper s can be automatically removed appropriate to a new set of criteria associated with the new status. Or if a status of the data the metadata or both changes to a new status the determining access privilege s can include determining access privileges based on unlimited capabilities granted by an entity generating the capabilities.

In other embodiments if a confidentiality class of the data the metadata or both changes to a more sensitive class additional wrapper s appropriate to the more sensitive class to the data the metadata or both can be automatically added. If a status of the data the metadata or both changes to a new status the first wrapper or the second wrapper can also be changed appropriate to a new set of criteria associated with the new status. If the status of the data the metadata or both changes to the new status the changing can also include modifying the first wrapper or the second wrapper appropriate to the new set of criteria associated with the new status.

In another embodiment if the status of the data the metadata or both changes to a new status at least some of the data metadata or both can be redacted by a mathematical transformation based on at least one of the first wrapper or the second wrapper appropriate to the new set of criteria associated with the new status. Also if the status of the data the metadata or both changes to the new status the first wrapper or the second wrapper can be deleted. Or if the data the metadata or both changes the metadata can be augmented with change metadata describing at least one change to the data the metadata or both. As another alternative if the data the metadata or both changes the change metadata describing at least one change to the data the metadata or both in the first wrapper can be encoded in a wrapper. As a different alternative if the data the metadata or both changes the metadata can be augmented with change metadata describing at least one change to the data the metadata or both.

The determining of access privilege s can include determining an order of evaluating visibility based on a defined hierarchy of at least the first wrapper with respect to at least the second wrapper. For instance the determining of access privilege s can include determining an order of evaluating visibility is based on a hierarchy defined by a tree data structure.

As various alternatives the determining of access privilege s can include determining a concentric order of evaluating visibility. The determining of access privilege s can include determining a lateral order of evaluating visibility. The determining of access privilege s can include determining the order based on concentric and lateral orders of evaluating visibility.

The determining of access privilege s can include first evaluating visibility through the first wrapper and if the set of capabilities enable access privilege s over the data metadata or both evaluating visibility through the second wrapper. The determining of access privilege s can include first evaluating visibility through the second wrapper and if the set of capabilities enable access privilege s over the data metadata or both evaluating visibility through the first wrapper.

The determining of access privilege s can include first evaluating visibility through the second wrapper applicable to provenance metadata of the metadata and augmenting the provenance metadata based on an entity requesting the access privileges. The determining can include determining the access privilege s based on evaluating visibility through a first wrapper applied to an outer set of data including the metadata and independently evaluating visibility through the second wrapper applied to an inner set of data including the data. The determining can include determining the access privilege s based on evaluating the visibility through the first wrapper applied to encrypted indexes corresponding to the data.

The process can also include blindly searching the encrypted indexes via selective access of the encrypted indexes through the first wrapper.

The defining the first wrapper or defining the second wrapper can include defining a speed of access requirement for the data the metadata or both. The defining the first wrapper or defining the second wrapper can include defining a tamper proof requirement for the data the metadata or both. The defining the first wrapper or defining the second wrapper can include defining a reliability of recovery requirement specified for the data the metadata or both.

A system can include a mathematical transformation s component distributed at least partially by a mathematical transformation technology provider implemented independently from an access information generator that generates capability information for at least one of publishing data metadata or both or subscribing to published data published metadata or both the mathematical transformation s component including at least one processor configured to perform at least one encoding algorithm or decoding algorithm based on the capability information generated by the access information generator. The system can further include a network service provider implemented independently from the access information generator and the mathematical transformation s component including at least one processor configured to implement a network service with respect to computer data computer metadata or both encrypted by the mathematical transformation s component the network service provider is configured to communicate with the mathematical transformation s component to perform generation regeneration alteration augmentation or deletion of at least two mathematical transformation wrappers applied to the computer data computer metadata or both.

The network service provider can be configured to generate regenerate alter augment or delete a wrapper based on a temporal event that modifies a trust requirement for a set of trust requirements for the wrapper. The network service provider can be configured to regenerate alter augment or delete the wrapper based on a determination that a mathematical transformation technique employed for generating the wrapper no longer meets a trust requirement of the set of trust requirements.

The network service provider can be configured to generate regenerate alter augment or delete a wrapper based on at least one spatial event that modifies a trust requirement for a set of trust requirements for the wrapper. The network service provider can be configured to regenerate alter augment or delete the wrapper based on a determination that a mathematical transformation technique employed for generating the wrapper no longer applies to a party that generated the wrapper.

In other embodiments the trustworthy platform is used as a transformative framework for mathematically obscuring data by publishers such that subscribers can selectively access pieces for which the subscribers are authorized. In this regard the platform achieves data that acts as its own custodian by simultaneously protecting data but also allowing access to authorized subscribers while preserving integrity and security.

Data as its own custodian can be implemented with a federated trust overlay with pluggable services as described in various embodiments and detailed sections below. Achieving more than mathematical obfuscation e.g. encryption various embodiments provide assurances to users and escrow agents data that data wherever and however it is stored preserves confidentiality and integrity requirements as properly defined by publishers or owners of data. In this regard focus is shifted or augmented from securing boundaries pipes and containers for data to securing data and associated metadata through the provision of a cryptographically secure trust envelope that allows access to the data metadata or a specific subset when presented with proper capabilities e.g. keys .

In one embodiment a method for hosting data is provided comprising receiving by computing device s in a first region of control from computing device s in a second region of control obscured data formed from mathematical transformation of data for a defined data set of the computing device s in the second region of control. The method further comprises receiving by the computing device s in the first region of control obscured metadata formed from an analysis of the data and at least one other mathematical transformation of an output of the analysis. Next it is determined which of one or more container of a set of containers having at least two disparate container types in which to store the obscured data and or the obscured metadata.

In a non limiting implementation of a system one or more mathematical transformation components are distributed at least partially by a mathematical transformation algorithm provider which is implemented independently from a generator that generates mathematical transformation predicate information e.g. key information for at least one of publishing data and metadata or subscribing to data and metadata. The one or more mathematical transformation components perform at least one searchable data obfuscation algorithm e.g. searchable encryption or searchable data revelation e.g. searchable decryption algorithm based on the mathematical transformation predicate information generated by the generator. A network service provider implemented independently from the generator and the one or more mathematical transformation components implements a network service with respect to the data or the metadata obscured by the one or more mathematical transformation components and the network service provider includes a data container management component that manages where the data or the metadata obscured by the at least one mathematical transformation component is stored based on at least one of a data latency requirement data reliability requirement distance from data consumption requirement or data scale requirement of the network service.

Data as a custodian provides access entitlements to data when needed or when anticipated to be needed at a fine or specified grain level rather than requiring entitlement to all of a given set of data. Operations staff at a cloud storage provider are also unable to view modify tamper or delete data without detection unless such viewing modifying tampering or deletion is expressly authorized according to capabilities granted to the operations staff such as maintenance of server logs or some other limited operations over the metadata to plan storage capacity or the like. In addition container less data enables proactive replication that facilitates tamper prevention which is otherwise a requirement conventional systems have failed to adequately address.

In one embodiment a federated trust overlay is achieved with one or more of the following components Cloud Data Service CDS or Cloud Storage Provider Crypto Technology Provider CTP and Center for Key Generation CKG . The CDS can be provided by any storage provider i.e. containerless data requires no particular container. The CTP can also be provided by any party provided it operates in a separate region of control from the CDS whether based on an open specification for implementing a CTP or a proprietary implementation of the CTP. Separating the key generation function and subjecting the mathematical principles such as encryption principles to public inspection inspires confidence that the methodology of the CTP remains free from bias and can be implemented by an enterprise or single user or sourced to a third party with CTP expertise. Moreover proprietary versions open versions for companies open or closed versions for governments or sovereigns reference open source versions or other categories can all be created for pre packaged use or implementation by a given entity.

The CKG entity generates key information according to the technology specified by the CTP and is also provided as a separate component of the federated trust overlay though the CKG can also be combined with other components depending on level of trust wanted for a given implementation of a FTO . In various embodiments though the CKG can be a centralized entity the word Center as used herein is a logical reference not an indication of a centralized entity and thus the CKG can be distributed and federated as well. A CKG can serve a single entity or multiple partners e.g. a multi partner collaboration between pharmaceutical companies for sharing and accessing the information according to key exchanges from an agreed upon CKG. With a FTO therefore trust and confidentiality are maintained by separating powers preventing insight into stored information logs or access patterns without express authority and tamper detection and integrity e.g. verification are also enabled. For instance a service provider cannot modify or delete data without detection. Auditability with non repudiation enables customers the comfort to let go of data and ensure no one has interfered with it either accidentally or on purpose. Logs have the same guarantees as data and metadata as well.

Results validation is another feature that can be included in a FTO implementation and which is described in more detail below. Validation ensures the cloud cannot withhold information that is being asked of it e.g. cannot deliver two documents when asked for three documents. The notion of separation can be taken even further by considering separated implementations of the CKG and any service that performs validation of the data as well as by separating the data from application service providers that receive alter retrieve alter augment or delete the data or metadata based on capabilities granted to the application service providers. This also has the added benefit of maintaining application capabilities according to then current characteristics of access updated security model updated roles time of day etc.

Combining all or even some of the above described features such as described in various embodiments below in more detail enhances the possibility of disarming trust concerns over cloud storage of data. At the enterprise level enterprises can own policy and control enforcement in a granular manner even if data and application are hosted in the cloud. The system can mesh with enterprise security infrastructures such as identity metasystems e.g. Claims identity lifecycle management active directory etc. . An enterprise can be exposed to as much or as little of implementation of the FTO as desirable.

The provision of data services as described herein involves various combinations and permutations of storage and cryptography techniques that enable cost effective as well as secure and private solutions. For instance various optional embodiments described in more detail below implement a data protection technique that includes size preserving encryption searchable encryption and or a cryptographic technique termed Proof s of Application referring to the general technique . Such embodiments enable new business scenarios for outsourced cloud data protection disaster recovery or analytics. As discussed in the background no conventional systems have implemented cloud or network data services in a way that has not failed the privacy or security need of customers.

In this regard to eliminate the trust barriers that surround conventional provision of network services a trustworthy cloud computing and data services ecosystem or framework is provided that achieves the above identified objectives as well as other advantages highlighted in the various embodiments described below. The term cloud services generally refers to the notion that a service is performed not locally from a user s device but rather delivered from one or more remote devices accessible via one or more networks. Since the user s device does not need to understand the details of what happens at the one or more remote devices the service appears to be delivered from a cloud from the perspective of the user s device.

In one embodiment a system comprises a key generator that generates key information for publishing or subscribing to data. A cryptographic technology provider implemented independently from the key generator implements searchable encryption decryption algorithm s based on the key information generated by the key generator. In addition a network service provider implemented independently from the key generator and the cryptographic technology provider provides a network service with respect to data encrypted by the cryptographic technology provider.

In one embodiment a data store is provided that exposes selectively accessible e.g. searchable encrypted data wherein at least one publisher publishes data representing resource s to the data store. Providing a division of the potential for abuse of trust a first independent entity performs generating of cryptographic key information. A second independent entity in turn performs encrypting of the published data prior to storing based on the cryptographic key information generated by the first independent entity. A set of network or cloud services then selective access to the encrypted data for a given request to the network service based on late bound selected privileges granted by the publisher s or owner s of the resource s .

In other embodiments a data store stores selectively accessible encrypted data wherein subscriber s subscribes to a specified subset of the encrypted data. A first independent entity generates cryptographic key information based on identity information associated with the subscriber s and a second independent entity performs decrypting of the specified subset based on the cryptographic key information generated by the first independent entity. Network service s respond to requests by the subscriber s and provide selective access to the encrypted data based on late bound selected privileges granted by the publishers or owners of the specified subset.

In this respect the terms publisher and subscriber generally refer to anyone that publishes or subscribes to data of a trustworthy cloud service respectively. However in practice depending on the industry field or application of the trustworthy cloud services ecosystem and digital escrow pattern publishers and subscribers will take on more specific roles. For instance in the context of data of an entire system typically only a small group of subscribers will have privileges to access the data. For an example in the context of data an auditor of an encrypted data store may have certain capabilities based on the role of auditor of the data to make sure certain requirements are met such as frequency of backup without being granted access to the content itself.

In one non limiting embodiment a method for hosting data comprises receiving by first computing device s in a first region of control from second computing device s in a second region of control encrypted data formed from encryption of data for a defined data set of the second computing device s according to searchable encryption algorithm s based on cryptographic key information receiving by the first computing device s encrypted metadata formed from an analysis of the data and encryption of an output of the analysis based on the cryptographic key information and automatically determining container s from containers of at least two disparate container types in which to store the encrypted data or the encrypted metadata. Trapdoor data is received that enables visible access to the encrypted data or metadata as defined by at least one cryptographic trapdoor of the trapdoor data.

The container s in which the encrypted data or metadata is stored can be automatically switched or changed if a pre defined condition of the plurality of containers is met. For instance if certain data or metadata becomes high priority to a customer then it may be moved from slower longer term storage to nimble container with low access latency. Or data or metadata might be moved copied or deleted for other efficiency reasons e.g. based on storage size associated with the encrypted data or metadata based on a speed of access requirement specified for the encrypted data or metadata based on a reliability of recovery requirement specified for the encrypted data or metadata based on proximity to one or more devices that have access to the encrypted data or metadata etc.

In another non limiting embodiment a system comprises a cryptographic component distributed at least partially by a cryptographic technology provider implemented independently from a key generator that generates key information for publishing data and metadata or subscribing to data and metadata the cryptographic component searchably encrypting data and metadata or searchably decrypting data and metadata based on the key information generated by the key generator.

The system can also include a network service provider implemented independently from the key generator and the cryptographic component providing a network service with respect to data or metadata encrypted by the cryptographic component the network service provider including a data container management component that manages where the data or metadata encrypted by the cryptographic component is stored based on a data latency requirement data reliability requirement distance from data consumption requirement or data scale requirement of the network service. The key information can include capability information that defines access privileges with respect to the data or metadata encrypted by the cryptographic component. The capability information can be late bound so that up to date access privileges are granted to a given subscriber.

In another non limiting embodiment a computing system comprises data store s storing selectively accessible encrypted data or metadata wherein a publisher publishes data or metadata representing resource s to the data store s a first independent entity generates cryptographic key information and a second independent entity encrypts the published data or metadata prior to storing in the data store s based on the cryptographic key information generated by the first independent entity. The system provides a network service that enabling selective access to the encrypted data or metadata for a given request to the network service based on late bound selected privileges granted by the publisher or owner of the resource s . In this regard the system is agnostic to container type and thus the data store s include containers of disparate container type and the data store s automatically distribute storage of the selectively accessible encrypted data or metadata across various container s based on an analysis of the current storage resources represented by the containers.

In one embodiment the data is XML data including XML payload data e.g. text string Michael Jackson and XML tag information e.g. applying to the payload. The XML tag information can be augmented with additional metadata relevant to the searchable encryption and selective decryption of the XML data. In this regard applying XML tags in this manner creates trust envelopes for structured XML data to leverage the federation of the cryptographic key generating entity CKG and cryptographic technology providing entity CTP to provide a range of trust guarantees like confidentiality privacy anonymity tamper detection and integrity. As mentioned any of the embodiments herein regarding XML data or metadata can also apply to other formats such as but not limited to JSON S Expressions EDI etc. and thus XML is merely used for illustrative purposes in the presently described embodiments.

XML data can also encode manifest information for locating other related fragments if it is a dispersed sliver of a larger document. Because of the way dispersal across different containers occurs i.e. one or more middle layers handle the storage details of the particular container implementations are technology independent any CKG CTP can be used . Moreover other than a trust wrapper implementations are open ended in that any number of wrappers in addition to searchable encryption and validation or verification can be applied and as new wrapper technologies become applicable. Tags can also be added on top of the pre existing data and metadata or by augmenting the metadata that help modulate consistency trails etc.

If the data information is in XML format then any of these techniques or wrappers can be applied to structured XML data so the data can be selectively queried to obtain access to XML fragments. Present day XML has a standard format that is or . Advantageously with structured XML documents there are way s to represent the structure hierarchically so that there is an outer wrapper that will point to a CKG CTP frame that is unique to a digital escrow pattern. So when there is need or want for access an embedded fragment existing trust with that and wrapper can be leveraged or a new set of trust can be established with a new CKG CTP frame.

This can provided through standard public key infrastructures PKI though specific schemes selected are to be considered non limiting on the techniques described herein. In this regard whatever particular set of encryption technologies are selected embodiments described herein enable users to search extract and decrypt segments subsets or parts of encrypted data or metadata. In addition public proof s of data possession mechanism a trusted third party running on a device s behalf can be executed to verify that a specific XML segment being accessed has not been tampered with since it was originally authored.

In essence a trustworthy envelope for XML fragments or full records e.g. payload is provided through variety of decorations that allow for the trust to run a gamut of trust guarantees like but not limited to confidentiality privacy anonymity and integrity.

As an example of the type of information that can be represented in XML tag information as part of the trustworthy envelope fragments of XML documents can be designated for various levels of sensitivity. For example a document may exist that has Public Secret and Top Secret paragraphs. A person performing a search and requesting access with a Secret clearance would only get access to Public and Secret paragraphs. A paragraph s classification can also be used to determine encryption mechanism key and access policy. For example a policy can be implemented that Top Secret content cannot be accessed from a wireless or remote device.

Similarly such a classification can be used to create a policy on how data could be stored where it could be stored how long it could be stored etc. For example a policy could be created that requires that sensitive medical data must be backed up once a day using AES 256 encryption to a secure server in a trustworthy datacenter.

In an embodiment a method for hosting extensible markup language XML data includes a first computing device in a first region of control receiving encrypted XML data including encrypted XML payload data and encrypted XML tags from a second computing device in a second region of control. The encrypted XML data is formed from encryption of a defined XML data set of the second computing device according to searchable encryption algorithm s based on cryptographic key information. A request for data includes capabilit ies based on the cryptographic key information defining privilege s for accessing at least some of the encrypted XML payload data or the encrypted XML tags and enabling selective access to the encrypted XML data as defined by the capabilit ies .

While some embodiments are described in the context of encryption of XML data any mathematical transformation or obscuring of the XML data can be used. For instance in one embodiment the XML data is distributed according to a substantially unguessable data distribution algorithm that distributes the XML data across different storage locations. A map is maintained that if access is granted to the map allows reconstruction of the pertinent parts of the data to which the requesting entity has privileges. In this regard the embodiments described herein in the context of encryption can thus be generalized to any algorithm or mathematical transformation that obscures or otherwise encodes the data in a way that hides the data without access privileges.

The capabilit ies can include trapdoor data including cryptographic trapdoor s for selectively accessing the encrypted XML payload data or encrypted XML tags. The encrypted data include auxiliary encrypted metadata formed from an analysis of the encrypted XML payload data or encrypted XML tags. For instance the confidentiality level labels of public secret or top secret can be applied to each payload element of the XML document on a fragment by fragment basis and included in the auxiliary encrypted metadata to achieve highly granular policy around access to parts of the XML document.

In another embodiment a method for subscribing to searchably encrypted XML data includes receiving cryptographic key information from a key generation component that generates the cryptographic key information based on identity information associated with the subscriber device requesting a subset of searchably encrypted XML data and corresponding XML tag data by the subscriber device including transmitting the cryptographic key information to a storage provider for the searchably encrypted XML data and corresponding tag data and decrypting the subset of encrypted XML data and corresponding XML tag data as allowed by capabilities defined in the cryptographic key information.

For each XML fragment of the encrypted XML data XML tag data representing a level of confidentiality of the corresponding encrypted XML data can be decrypted and it can be determined whether the capabilities allow access to data having the level of confidentiality. This includes a public level of confidentiality with open access privileges or a secret level of confidentiality that is less open as defined consistent with policy.

The methods can include validating that a correct subset of encrypted XML data and corresponding XML tag data is received by the subscriber device consistent with the requesting. An example of validating includes performing proof s of data possession to prove that the correct subset is received by the subscriber device. The methods can also include verifying content of the subset of encrypted XML data and corresponding XML tag data was not deleted or modified prior to receiving the subset of encrypted XML data and corresponding XML tag data. An example of verifying includes performing proof s of retrievability to prove lack of interference with the content. Among other optional features anonymizing credentials associated with the subscriber device can be applied when requesting access to encrypted XML data or key information.

In another embodiment a method for publishing extensible markup language XML data can includes encrypting XML data according to searchable encryption algorithm s to form encrypted XML data including encrypted XML tag information based on cryptographic key information received from a separate key generator that generates the cryptographic key information and transmitting the encrypted XML data to a network service provider for storage of the encrypted data wherein the encrypted data is selectively accessible according to late binding of selected privileges granted to a requesting device based on identity information of the requesting device. The encrypting can include receiving cryptographic key information from the key generator executing in a separate region of control that generates the cryptographic key information based on an identity of publishing device performing the encrypting of the XML data.

In another embodiment a method for subscribing to extensible markup language XML data includes in response to a request for a subset of searchably encrypted XML data including encrypted XML tags by a subscriber device receiving cryptographic key information from a key generation component that generates the cryptographic key information based on identity information associated with the subscriber device and decrypting the subset of encrypted XML data as a function of privileges granted the subscriber device defined in the cryptographic key information.

The various techniques can include requesting proof with respect to data items of the subset of encrypted XML data by the subscriber device that the correct data items are received which can include receiving information proving to the subscriber device that the data items in the subset of encrypted XML data requested by the subscriber device are correct. The various techniques can include requesting proof that the subset of encrypted XML data has not been interfered with prior to the request by the subscriber device which can include receiving information proving to the subscriber device that the subset of encrypted XML data has not been interfered with prior to the request by the subscriber device.

In yet another embodiment a system includes data store s storing selectively accessible encrypted XML payload data and corresponding encrypted XML tag data corresponding to the encrypted XML payload data wherein a subscriber requests a subscription to a subset of the encrypted XML payload data or the encrypted XML tag data a first independent entity generates cryptographic key information based on identity information associated with the subscriber and a second independent entity performs decrypting of the subset based on the cryptographic key information generated by the first independent entity. The system further includes a network service for handling a request by the subscriber which provides selective access to the subset of the encrypted XML payload data or the encrypted XML tag data. The system can be configured to validate that the subset of the encrypted XML payload data or the encrypted XML tag data is a correct subset consistent with the subscription and or to verify that the subset of the encrypted XML payload data or the encrypted XML tag data has not been altered or deleted without authorization prior to the selective access to the subset of the encrypted XML payload data or the encrypted XML tag data.

In another embodiment a system includes a cryptographic component distributed at least partially by a cryptographic technology provider implemented independently from a key generator that generates key information for of publishing XML data and corresponding tag data or subscribing to XML data and corresponding tag data the cryptographic component including processor configured to perform searchable encryption decryption algorithm s based on the key information generated by the key generator and a network service provider implemented independently from the key generator and the cryptographic component including processor configured to implement a network service with respect to XML data or the corresponding tag data encrypted by the cryptographic component. The key information includes late bound capability information whereby up to date access privileges are granted to a given subscriber to XML data or the corresponding tag data.

Further details of these and other various exemplary non limiting embodiments and scenarios are provided below.

As alluded to in the background the maintenance of sensitive enterprise data at a remote site owned by a service organization can put that data at risk ranging from privacy violations to data loss. As described for various embodiments herein network or cloud data services including mathematical transformation techniques for data are provided in a way that distributes trust across multiple entities to avoid a single point of data compromise in a way that decouples data protection requirements from the container s in which the data may be stored processed accessed or retrieved. In one embodiment an access information generator a mathematical transform technology provider and a cloud services provider are each provided as separate entities enabling a trustworthy platform for publishers of data to publish data confidentially e.g. encrypted to a cloud services provider and enabling selective access to the transformed data to authorized subscribers based on subscriber capabilities. Multiple transform wrappers or layers can wholly or partially transform data metadata or both to mathematical transform e.g. encrypt distribute across storage obscure or otherwise introduce lack of visibility to some or all of the data metadata or both.

Various embodiments of the subject disclosure provide verifiable trust through families of techniques that are referred to as wrapper composition that have applications including storage of data on servers services or clouds that are not fully trusted or exchanging data through regions of control that may not be fully trusted. Some other examples of cryptographic techniques or decorations that can be applied to a wrapper or envelope over data to facilitate establishing a high level of trust over security and privacy of the data include but are not limited to size preserving encryption searchable encryption Proof s of Application blind fingerprints Proof s of Retrievability etc. In some of the embodiments herein candidate data is referred to as content. 

Verifiable Trust is the ability to provide guarantees such as anonymity privacy or integrity through techniques that could include but are not confined to cryptographic techniques for encryption signing cryptographic hashing and interactive proofs. There are other classes of guarantees with associated classes of applicable cryptographic and other techniques. For ease of exposition we will refer to all these techniques as cryptographic in the following text.

Many conventional cryptographic and other schemes for protecting content or data and for providing verifiable trust have relied on an all or nothing approach that requires the recipient or reader to have the appropriate key or other mechanism for gaining access.

Emerging methods and systems are able to provide selective opacity where a party that has access to this content can be provided with delegated capabilities for performing restricted actions on that content. These actions could include having selective access based on criteria that include keys or proofs of roles or possession of claims.

These actions could also include the ability to perform a range of actions on that content that might include searching routing and workflow while continuing to have a restricted view of that content. An example of such a technique is referred to in the research literature as Searchable Encryption .

There are a combination of reasons that include scenario diversity limitations in cryptography or systems or complicated by disparate policies and verifiable trust requirements of participants that are outlined in the following exposition. Existing techniques and implementations are not able to meet these diverse needs in a manner that provides systems and operational flexibility and dynamic composition. We describe loosely coupled wrappers that can be ephemeral and provide support dynamic addition and removal of wrappers based on the needs of any scenario.

At data or metadata or both are received protected by a composite wrapper formed from a first mathematical transformation defining a first wrapper for the data the metadata or both based on a first set of criteria and a second mathematical transformation defining a second wrapper for the data the metadata or both based on a second set of criteria.

At a request for access to the data metadata or both as protected by the composite wrapper is received based on a set of capabilities included in the request. At based on the set of capabilities access privilege s for the data metadata or both are determined based on evaluating visibility through the first wrapper and independently evaluating visibility through the second wrapper. At potentially a status of the system changes or an instruction explicitly requesting change is received. At based on the status change or instruction the first or second wrapper are changed deleted or augmented based on new set of criteria QoS requirements type of content or metadata compliance requirements etc. another wrapper is generated a wrapper is deleted or undone a wrapper with the same or other mathematical transforms is regenerated or policy governing first or second wrappers is changed etc.

Many of the techniques described herein rely on a hierarchy of protection that might involve an inner payload that contains the actual content to be protected and an outer payload that contains encrypted indexes that describe the inner data that is amenable to blind search techniques such as those referred to in the research literature as Public Key Encryption with Keyword Search. 

In practice this reference to inner and outer could imply literal containment where access to the inner payload would require unlocking the outer payload or wrapper through a technique such as decryption. However this could also be a virtual concept where there is no actual containment but without decoding the outer wrapper it is difficult to locate or reconstitute the inner payload.

This difficulty alluded to in the previous sentence is either due to computational complexity introduced by cryptographic techniques or other mathematical transforms or it could be due to systems techniques that provide isolation of the inner and outer content through ownership and regions of control or it could be a combination that leverages cryptographic dispersion techniques coupled with systems techniques that optimize dispersal and reconstitution.

There are several reasons for creating a hierarchy of wrappers in order to provide verifiable trust some of which have been described above. These include providing selective opacity based on natural hierarchies that are observed in the real world such as organizational hierarchies. Other reasons include the ability to combine disparate cryptographic techniques with complementary properties cryptographic or systems properties in a manner that provides a composite that is more amenable to real world implementation.

There are many other reasons for adding or removing wrappers that address temporal or spatial events that modify the requirements for verifiable trust but in a manner that does not require inner wrappers or payloads to remain intact.

Temporal events might include estimates or assumptions that cryptographic techniques employed for generating these wrappers may have weakened in their ability to provide guarantees due to advances in hardware software or science. Systems might be built to embrace this failure by generating new wrappers by schedule on demand or other triggers to promote longer term provision of verifiable trust.

Spatial events might include the transfer of possession or ownership across parties that are handling the content that might have reasons for selecting disparate cryptographic techniques perhaps for reasons that include governance legal regulatory compliance and are particularly noteworthy when crossing boundaries of sovereign entities and jurisdictions. Systems might be built to embed the capabilities in the gateways or directly into the wrappers or in some hybrid manner such that wrappers are materialized or vaporized based on policies that reflect the rules of the new possessors or owners.

There are techniques in the literature that attempt to provide verifiable trust that can model natural hierarchies that include hierarchical identity based encryption attribute based encryption and predicate or functional encryption. There are also techniques that provide intrinsic abilities to materialize wrappers in a virtual manner through cryptographic techniques properties such as full homomorphism. In the presence of these techniques there could continue to be a need to compose through wrappers as describe above for other reasons that might range from verifiable trust to systems.

Cryptographic reasons to compose wrappers include the need to match techniques that might compose through an inner wrapper that provides stronger guarantees or finer grain control over access and an outer wrapper that leaks less information to adversaries but provides coarser grain control and weaker guarantees. Therefore the composite provides a more optimal mix of guarantees and control.

Systems reasons might include the need to match techniques with varying properties that might include performance and scale. In such scenarios outer wrappers could be constructed out of techniques that provide higher levels of performance and scale albeit with some limitation in functionality and inner wrappers with augmented or complementary functionality presumably with lower performance and scale.

In practice it is often the case that emerging cryptographic techniques provide increasing levels of capabilities but at a cost of performance and scale. There is also a lack of trust in these emerging techniques that typically dissipates over time as they are analyzed refined and standardized. Also over time we learn to implement these techniques in steadily more efficient software or hardware methods or a combination thereof.

Wrappers facilitate optimistic leverage of these new techniques in a manner that provides safety nets where either an inner or outer wrapper is able to compensate for either known or unknown weaknesses or deficiencies or intrinsic lack of features in techniques that implement any single wrapper. For example an outside wrapper could provide keyword privacy and high performance but with coarser grain access control or an absence thereof. This could be complemented with an inner wrapper that does not provide for keyword privacy but delivers finer grain access control possibly at a higher performance and scale penalty.

It is often the case that an outer wrapper will be optimized for false positives in that it is more likely to make a selection for search routing or workflow. This could reflect a higher or containing hierarchy of permissions in a real world organization. However a corresponding inner wrapper would specialize this result for an inner layer in the hierarchy. For example an outer wrapper could net all results that would be appropriate for the Mathematics Department in a University while an inner wrapper could filter in just the results that would be of interest to a Number Theorist.

Other reasons exist for wrappers. These include the need to provide scenario specific verifiable trust guarantees. For example there may exist families of scenarios where it is not important to protect against knowledge of the existence of specific keywords possibly because the domain of these keywords is large enough to make a dictionary or keyword guessing attack computationally impractical or because leakage of these keywords is a risk that is deemed low by that scenario.

In contrast there could be other families of scenarios where these keywords are highly sensitive and a data owner or a business social support or consumer network of owners desires that the current possessor of that data such as a server service cloud or other party perform an action without learning anything more about these keywords that they are operating upon to perform actions that include searching and then retrieving or routing or performing other operations.

Furthermore in many real world families of scenarios the content is a composite that contains components that sit in a continuum that ranges from highly sensitive to disposable . Typically any real world organization reflects these disparate requirements which are reflected in composite content that is stored exchanged or collaboratively operated upon.

Furthermore in many of these collaborative scenarios that include many extranet scenarios where businesses collaborate across organizational regulatory compliance sovereign entity or other boundaries the classification of the content being accessed by a party would be deemed by an owner to map to a point in the continuum based on the current business or contractual relationship or history and trust between the owning and the accessing parties. Furthermore this relationship and the mapping could be ephemeral perhaps down to the grain of a specific transaction of business or social interaction.

In any foreseeable state of the cryptographic and systems art it would appear to be impractical to design a single solution that would meet a range of requirements across scenarios that meet all the verifiable trust requirements and also the systems requirements that would include performance and scale and other requirements that might include those alluded to previously. This could place a high development maintenance and operational burden on server service cloud and other deliveries due to the complexity and consequent cost of delivering these solutions at scale usually leading to higher costs of goods which are typically transferred to end users.

Techniques that include those outlined in this disclosure are candidates for composition of solutions that are deemed optimal from a cryptographic and or systems perspective. Such a composition might include automated composition of a hybrid service from the appropriate candidate building block services but this would not preclude semi automated compositions that might include operational or engineering intervention. In these cases the solution might leverage the ability to materialize a composite that is constructed out of wrappers that provide complementary systems cryptographic and other features that deliver an optimal solution to the scenario or scenario family but in a manner that desirably does not impose an implementation or operational tax for features or capabilities that are not required by that scenario or scenario family.

Additional reasons for implementing wrappers include the need to mediate between the requirements needs and policies of disparate individuals or organizations that have a legitimate need to control access to content. This is a common business scenario where a specified set of parties have to come together to agree to unlock access to some content. An example might include a Clinical Trials family of scenarios where content could be regulated by perhaps the FDA and HIPAA and ownership might be shared between parties such as a Pharma Sponsor such as Merck and a data owner such as Microsoft HealthVault. The Pharma Sponsor might exert authority due to a need to protect intellectual property generated as a consequence of the study whereas HealthVault might exert authority due to a need to protect the anonymity and privacy of their customers that are participating in that Clinical Trial.

There are cryptographic systems and human assisted techniques for mediation reconciliation and arbitration for conflict because such conflicts often occur due to inconsistent conflicting or vaguely defined policies. These cryptographic techniques include ones that leverage secret sharing and implementations include those that deploy multi authority key or capability generators. However these techniques do not always meet the right mix of verifiable trust flexibility and expressiveness or systems performance and scale. Even if there were a single technique and consequent implementation that met all the potentially disparate and conflicting requirements of the parties it could be the case that a single implementation or deployment would not be trusted due to perhaps a lack of trust in the technology the implementer or the hosting party by other participants.

In such situations wrappers are a candidate solution which could be complemented with other automated techniques or supplemented through manual intervention perhaps through electronic or manual workflow. Such a composite solution could leverage wrappers that would either provide a layer of control to a specific party or set of parties in a business network. That wrapper might be optionally be a technology implementation or deployment that is trusted by the party or set of parties in question. This wrapper might either engage in an interactive protocol with a remote cloud to perhaps implement late binding or to support expiry or revocation or to provide an audit log with verifiable trust. Or this wrapper might implement an offline protocol that would permit block and or log access in a suitable manner based on the access credentials and some accessible policy.

Other reasons for implementing verifiable trust through wrappers might include the need to manage assets or artifacts such as keys passwords pass phrases certificates or other proofs of knowledge or ownership. Typically cryptographic systems can place an additional systems burden due to a need to generate manage backup archive retain dispose securely shred provide forensics for and support servers services and clouds for access to these artifacts in a manner that provides a required level of Service Level Agreements of availability scalability latencies and data loss and recovery time caps in the presence of failures.

This is further exacerbated by the need to provide a level of trust for these servers services or clouds. This is typically done through a hierarchy of trust such as PKI. These systems need to be further secured so that a server service or cloud if compromised in any manner is not permitted to launch attacks through perhaps impersonation and man in the middle attacks.

In such situations wrappers provide candidate solutions that can be suitably combined with remote servers services or clouds that provide complementary capabilities in a manner that could mitigate the systems overhead the complexities latencies and WAN fragilities of interactive protocols for reasons that include access authentication and retrieval of artifacts. In an embodiment of such a wrapper an outer wrapper could hold the requisite artifacts for access to an inner wrapper. One of the consequences could include the elimination of the need to store and archive these artifacts since they are effectively a part of the payload due to containment or through effective systems engineering.

There is an opportunity to provide hybrid solutions where such a wrapper might initiate an interactive protocol with a remote server service or cloud to implement expiry or revocation or to provide an audit log with verifiable trust for purposes such as auditing or forensics. The manner in which this hybrid solution is implemented could optimize the load placed on servers services or clouds or it could be optimized to operate in the presence of network issues.

In these and other cases wrappers can have selected technologies implementations and remote servers services or clouds for optional interactive protocols in a manner that facilitate verifiable trust in a business network. The wrappers could be designed to implement either a linear hierarchy or a more complex structure such as a tree or a graph. These structures could either be actual containment or they could be virtual as described previously. Such complex structures could facilitate flexible and expressive decision trees that might implement a combination of threshold participation overrides and escrows and perhaps exceptions and manual overrides.

There exist cryptographic techniques that could provide for equivalent capabilities through systems such as multi authority key or capability generators. These technologies and systems can be viewed as candidates for distinct wrappers in a composite system that meets the disparate needs of participants in a business network due to all the commercial social political sovereign and other complex needs that have to be accommodated in any complex real world network.

Such complex real world network ecosystems and marketplaces often grow organically from an initial set of participants which successively grows through network effects of increasing numbers of participants. Other networks are instituted top down perhaps through standards or fiat. Often existing networks perhaps grown organically will fragment into silos due to perhaps conflict or due to exogenous effects. Hence it is often desirable to be able to support a forest of networks that have the ability to coalesce or separate perhaps by design due to the ephemeral nature of trust being an intrinsic requirement in that network.

This disclosure and the various embodiments outline some of the many reasons for leveraging wrappers. Applications in the real world address a range of verifiable trust and systems needs and support a universe of scenarios through suitable composition and extension based on modular concepts and building blocks including the ones outlined above.

For ease of exposition and for pedagogic reasons the previous text sometimes uses certain abbreviations or makes certain implicit or explicit assumptions that include those describe below.

Techniques that provide any form of verifiable guarantees perhaps systems solutions that implement boundaries regions of control and air gaps or cryptographic and similar techniques that rely on computationally hard problems are collectively referred to as crypto cryptography cryptographic solutions or other similar or equivalent phrases. However for the avoidance of doubt cryptographic techniques such as searchable encryption are by no means required. Any mathematical transformation encoding obfuscation etc. can be used as well as other techniques for protecting data such as hiding the data or fragmenting the data in a way that can t be pieced together without a reconstruction map. Operations such as signing or encryption or techniques such as hashing tend to be less ambiguous in common usage than other terms such as anonymity confidentiality integrity privacy and non repudiation.

Other parties in such interchanges could include participants such as an extranet or a business network for commercial scenarios. Or these could be consumer social support networks for individuals friends and families. Or these could be networks of individuals or organizations that straddle distinct sovereign entities or jurisdictions. These sovereign entities or their delegates could be participants in either facilitating or participating or both and could form their own networks such as NATO.

The method and apparatus for implementing composition through wrappers for optimizing verifiable trust in a configurable manner is simply referred to as wrappers Implementations might leverage software hardware or other means to implement an offline protocol which creates either a spatial or a virtual container. Other implementations might include an interactive protocol with a remote service or some combination of offline operations and interactive protocols.

Parties that are involved in facilitating transaction or an interactive protocol that might include servers services clouds workflow end points that might be human or automated or other parties are referred to as clouds Implementations of clouds might include public private outsourced dedicated or multi tenant versions.

Using the techniques of a trustworthy platform data and associated metadata is decoupled from the containers that hold the data e.g. file systems databases etc. enabling the data to act as its own custodian through imposition of a shroud of mathematical complexity that is pierced with presented capabilities such as keys granted by a cryptographic key generator of a trust platform as described in various embodiments. Sharing of or access to the data or a subset of that data is facilitated in a manner that preserves and extends trust without the need for particular containers for enforcement. The mathematical complexities such as searchable encryption techniques applied to the data protect the data without regard to the container or hardware in which the particular bits are recorded i.e. the data is protected containerlessly or without regard to the container and is thus not subject to attack on the basis of a compromise of container security. If the particular safe is cracked the contents are still protected.

Accordingly in recognition of the freeing of data from the containers that hold data by the trust overlay in various embodiments a data storage management layer automatically takes care of what the customer cares about based on an analysis of real time availability of storage resources and their respective characteristics in order to optimize data storage in containers that suit the customers need and wants. Storage management layer is dashed indicating that its location is not critical either. The storage management layer normally has no cryptographic privileges to access view or change the data stored in one or more data store s however it may be desirable to expose some of the metadata such as file size or file type in order to facilitate an understanding of how the customer will want to use the data in the future so that the storage management layer can make intelligent storage choices. For instance the storage management layer can maintain video in a media store that meets the requirements for streaming media if it is given enough of a view over the data to understand that the data is video.

As shown in a non limiting embodiment an enterprise owns its policy and enforcement of the policy with respect to users and their use of system resources of the enterprise as well as with respect to external users e.g. mobile workers . With data as its own custodian the actual data and or logs can be separated from policy and enforcement by storing the data in cloud however the operations staff of the cloud are unable to view modify tamper or delete the data and or logs without detection.

As shown in the example of an enterprise has enterprise staff that can are subject to enterprise access policy and some of whom enterprise staff can set enterprise access policy . Enterprise access policy can affect how data stored in a data container of a cloud container can be accessed manipulated retrieved searched etc. Accordingly when users of data attempt to access such data various crypto access controls guided by but separated from enterprise access policy protect the data from unwarranted access by users . Different enterprise access policy can be reflected by the crypto access controls of data container to apply to different accessing entities or tasks such as enterprise audits performed by security staff or cloud operations staff to ensure that visibility is restricted to those to whom access should be enabled. Data containers can be located anywhere and made redundant for security and access is enforced by the crypto access controls . In this regard enterprise access policy can be set by the enterprise owners and guaranteed by the crypto wrapper as implemented by the crypto access controls .

As shown in an enterprise defines its enterprise access policy applicable to enterprise staff while data is stored remotely and protected by cryptographic access controls applicable to users wishing to access data . The system and users are agnostic whether containers storing data are stored in a cloud somewhere at the enterprise or stored via overlay networks or combinations thereof and data can straddle containers.

Building on the example of is an example illustrating the surrounding federated trust overlay. In this regard a CTP with no backdoors can be implemented based on open methodologies subject to public inspection of robustness. Based on CTP a CKG can be spawned for handling requests for capabilities e.g. keys for performing operations e.g. search logical operations or queries backup auditing tamper check integrity check availability check etc. . Cloud data service provider thus provides service e.g. storage of the encrypted metadata and encrypted data . In one optional embodiment the cloud hosts the data in a way that is blind to data or access patterns.

An FTO is an ecosystem that benefits customers by separating pieces of the mathematical transformations that take place with respect to containerless data in cloud or other storage and as described elsewhere herein includes a cloud data service CDS a crypto technology provider CTP and a center for key generation . As an example customers may have a document with which various keywords are associated. The public parameters for encryption are retrieved from the CKG whereas the technology for performing the mathematical transformation is retrieved from CTP . To perform an upload document is encrypted and uploaded to the cloud into an encrypted document store . The location and the key for the upload along with the keywords are input to generated encrypted indexes associated with the encrypted upload of document and the encrypted indexes generated at are uploaded at to encrypted index store .

Where illustrates the upload of encrypted index data illustrates the decryption of indexes to search for particular content which is granted based on capabilities provided by the federated trust overlay and then with visibility into the search results the user can be granted capabilities or privileges to decrypt the actual documents pertinent to the search. In this regard access to the index and access to documents can be separately controlled based on policy and enforcement by the FTO.

As mentioned an FTO is an ecosystem that benefits customers by separating pieces of the mathematical transformations that take place with respect to containerless data in cloud or other storage and as described elsewhere herein includes a cloud data service CDS a crypto technology provider CTP and a center for key generation .

In this example a customer forms a query and then acquires a trapdoor at from CKG which is presented with the query to the cloud. In the cloud the encrypted indexes in encrypted index store are searched at based on technology retrieved from CTP . The results are then returned still encrypted and decrypted at from which the location and key are extracted. This gives the systems the information to retrieve at encrypted documents from encrypted document store which can be decrypted based on key at to return document or documents e.g. document from .

With respect to as mentioned an FTO is an ecosystem that benefits customers by separating pieces of the mathematical transformations that take place with respect to containerless data in cloud or other storage and as described elsewhere herein includes a cloud data service CDS a crypto technology provider CTP and a center for key generation . In this example a publisher encrypts records and indexes by encoding the records and indexes at based on a secret retrieved from CKG and technology retrieved from CTP . The encrypted or encoded records and indexes are stored in the cloud. Proof s of data possession PDP tags can be used in connection with encoding at which later help to ensure certain aspects of the data while stored in the cloud as described elsewhere herein in more detail.

As mentioned in a verification operation is being performed based on cryptographic consultation with the FTO that integrity of the data is intact. In this regard the FTO is an ecosystem that benefits customers by separating pieces of the mathematical transformations that take place with respect to containerless data in cloud or other storage and as described elsewhere herein includes a cloud data service CDS a crypto technology provider CTP and a center for key generation . PDP Tags can be useful to an auditor of a system to check the integrity of data stored in the cloud. Based on a random number the auditor issues a challenge to a prover in the cloud and based on a secret retrieved from CKG and technology retrieved from CTP . Prover also uses technology in connection with implementing the proving algorithms. In this regard prover receives encrypted records and indexes and PDP tags as input and returns information to auditor which is verified at . Based on whether the verify operation is successful or fails at the auditor is informed whether the integrity of the encrypted records and indexes has been maintained.

As described in more detail below various cryptographic techniques can be incorporated into the provision of services that can provide strong guarantees of privacy and non repudiation for service users. By integrating these cryptographic techniques with data protection techniques remote services and layered applications can be implemented on top of the data in a manner that lets the owner of that data and the enterprise customer the customer to have precise control over the type of operations that can be performed by the entity hosting the data or the Cloud Service Provider or Operator the CSP . In addition many of these operations can be performed by the CSP on behalf of the customer without learning or otherwise seeing the actual contents of the data on which operations are performed. In addition the customer can detect if the CSP is inappropriately deleting or modifying data or moving the data to lower performance secondary or tertiary storage. In this regard a variety of cryptography techniques can be integrated with data services to provide confidence to the customer to relinquish control over data e.g. to increase security and privacy.

For instance searchable encryption is an encryption method where essential metadata is copied out of the data before it is encrypted. For a non limiting example in the case of Exchange e mail the data is a message with its attachments and the essential metadata could include selected messaging application programming interface MAPI properties and a full text index. For instance the data is encrypted e.g. using advanced encryption standard AES whereas the metadata is encrypted in a manner that generates encrypted indices. As a result the encrypted data and indices can now be handed over to another entity that is not fully trusted such as a CSP. Subsequent selective access to the aggregated encrypted data and indices can be accomplished by the owner of that data the customer sending up an encrypted query to the CSP or other authorized subscribers . Hence the CSP can apply encrypted queries on the encrypted indices and return the encrypted data that matches however the CSP does not learn anything about the contents of the data the metadata the queries or the results unless authorized by the customer .

Proof s of Possession and Proof s of Retrievability are cryptographic techniques where a Prover in this case the CSP providing storage and a Verifier the customer can engage in a protocol where the verifier can efficiently determine if the data they own is intact and available for easy retrieval from the possessor of the data the CSP. These techniques are efficient in network bandwidth and in the operations that the CSP performs so the cost of goods sold COGS of the CSP remain relatively unchanged and the time for completing the protocol is reasonably short.

Another cryptographic technique that can be integrated into the provision of data services is Proof s of Application. Proof s of Application similar to Proof s of Possession enables the Verifier to ascertain that the data is being correctly maintained by the Prover the CSP.

Blind Fingerprints represent another kind of cryptographic technique that extends network de duping techniques such as Rabin Fingerprints which are typically used for minimizing the exchange of redundant data over a network. In various embodiments herein fingerprinting is applied such that a participant in the protocol e.g. the CSP in the case of storage of data is unaware of the actual contents of the data that they are hosting.

A variety of scenarios based on the provision of services by a CSP thus emerge based on the above described framework and corresponding cryptographic techniques ranging from storage and compute services to communication and collaboration services. Larger enterprise customers have significant compute and storage assets in their current enterprise data centers and the inertia to adoption of Cloud services may be high. In addition customers are experienced in and familiar with data center operations wanting to leverage the operating expenses OPEX and capital expenses CAPEX advantages and thus are concerned about their sensitive business data moving from premise to the Cloud.

For this class of customers in various embodiments a set of applications are provided that involve the customer owning and operating their existing servers such as Exchange server. The second copy of the data would then be delegated to the cloud service provider for reasons of data protection archival compliance governance legal or other reasons. The CSP thus has the skills technologies and economies of scale to preserve this data against data loss or disclosure and can facilitate running applications on top of this second copy. A small sampling of example products and services that can be offered based on maintaining a data to the customer include litigation support monitoring and supervision service dial tone data navigation etc.

With respect to litigation support when a company is being sued there are a variety of entities that are required by the litigation process to perform searches on historical e mail records. These entities include internal legal staff HR managers external legal counsel their external litigation support partner and the opposing legal counsel. There are specific scope rules regarding who can perform what search. In current litigation support scenarios it is difficult to bound scopes. Hence it is possible for any individual involved in the litigation support to look at e mail that is outside scope. In the case of email results of searches are typically exchanged in the form of personal storage table PST files which constitute additional risk since these files can be inadvertently or maliciously handed over to unauthorized individuals.

In contrast when the second copy is hosted remotely e.g. in the cloud by a CSP and maintained through a data it is possible for a single trusted entity in the enterprise e.g. the Chief Legal Officer to provide each individual in the operation with specific trapdoors that will limit their query capabilities to their need. The data being hosted in the Cloud and protected through searchable encryption and a tamper resistant audit log provides a higher level of protection so that inappropriate e mail access is prevented. The need to exchange PST files is eliminated since all individuals in the operation are directly accessing the cloud for queries and the litigation support partner is the only entity exporting the targeted content for conversion to tagged image file format TIFF for case management.

With respect to monitoring and supervising the remote data copy any reasonably sized corporation should proactively monitor their organization s e mail for various purposes. These could range from legal compliance to governance reasons such as monitoring IP leakage plagiarism inappropriate language etc. Typically the monitoring and supervision software monitors either the primary servers or a second copy that is backed up or archived. The problem with monitoring the primary servers is that this could place excessive load on busy production servers. In addition since it is possible for administrators to accidentally or maliciously modify or delete data on the primary servers a solution is to capture data in a compliant manner and transfer it to a second copy where monitoring and supervision software continually scans incoming e mail looking or searching for patterns. However in many enterprise setups there is local administrative access to these second copies and as a result a resourceful administrator can modify or delete information in spite of tamper detection and prevention mechanisms.

In contrast maintaining a data by the CSP advantageously places the second copy in a different region of control. Suitable cryptographic techniques such as searchable public key encryption PEKS and Proof s of Possession POP can ensure that even collusion between an enterprise administrator and an employee of the CSP still prevents them from positively identifying exactly what item they want to modify. The monitoring and supervision software runs at the remote site or in the Cloud and looks for items that have specific pre determined keywords through trapdoors that have been previously provided.

As described herein according to various embodiments independent data protection and cryptographic techniques are combined in a manner that enhances and modifies each to support the other to provide solutions that are not currently available to consumers enterprises ecosystems and social networks and to enable containerless secure private and selectively accessible data in a cloud environment.

XML has evolved as a ubiquitous network exchange format for a variety of reasons including but not limited to its efficient descriptive capacity enabled via tags and its hierarchical arrangement. In this regard XML data can be protected according to the above FTO infrastructure enabling different permissions to be applied to different parts an XML document including payload and tags and any metadata added on top of existing tags or metadata . Trustworthy XML can thus be stored in a containerless fashion as described above as well.

As illustrated in XML payload and its tags can be encrypted to form encrypted tags and payload . In this regard by breaking an XML document into XML fragments with potentially different protection levels a much more granular permission system is enabled that does not depend on the initial organization as a document on the publisher side. In addition additional data can be added to the payload data based on any function and additional XML tags can be applied to aid in additional functions to be applied over the trustworthy XML fragments. Operations on the payload tags include operations such as search queries backup auditing etc. Other operations can be implemented over the data based on the optional addition of data or tags . For instance any time data fits the pattern of a social security number a tag can be automatically added that marks the XML fragment as private to preserve such information inviolate.

In this regard if the data information is in XML format any of the above described techniques on data metadata can be applied to structured XML data to selectively query and obtain access to XML fragments. XML has a standard format that is or . In this respect with structure XML there is a way to represent the structure hierarchically so that there is an outer wrapper that will point to the CKG CTP frame that is unique to the digital escrow pattern. So when there is need to access an embedded fragment existing or materialize new trust is leveraged with the and wrapper. This allows for users to search extract and decrypt the segments where permitted. In addition PDP can be used to verify that the specific XML segment requested has not been tampered with since it was originally authored.

Accordingly in various embodiments a trusted envelope for XML fragments or full records Payload is created through variety of decorations that allow for the trust to run a gamut of trust guarantees like confidentiality privacy anonymity and integrity.

This is in line with the above described container less data embodiments. The opportunity to decouple data from its containers e.g. file systems databases facilitates the sharing in a manner that preserves and extends the original guarantees without the need for containers to enforce. Any other wrapper can also be added beyond crypto search crypto based tamper detection etc. as based on business needs and as different technologies emerge. With XML data tags can be added to the data to help modulate the consistency of the data which can be dependent on domain and applications.

Advantageously the XML can include searchable metadata that encodes authentication authorization schemas history traces consistency etc. It could also encode manifest information for locating other related fragments if it is a dispersed sliver of a larger document. The technology independence of being able to use any agreed upon CKG CTP combined with being able to add other wrappers in addition to searchable encryption and PDP as new technologies became applicable enables a flexible architecture to handle any kind of cloud scenario. XML tags can also be augmented or added in order to modulate consistency trails etc.

When this is combined with data dispersion techniques strong guarantees regarding confidentiality privacy anonymity and integrity are achieved. This trusted envelope can be used to decorate any Payload with additional metadata that could include schema information consistency hints versions and trails confidence levels e.g. when using crowd computing locators for reconstituting this payload from other peers of a sliver etc.

In one non limiting application trustworthy XML provides the loose format binding to grow the ecosystem in order to catalyze network effects. The combination of FTO parameterizes the technologies and the key managers and the universal exchange formats of XML facilitates greater flexibility in accommodating diverse technical application domain locale sovereign format and other requirements.

In another application current settlement and reconciliation for Syndication involves point to point exchanges that are prone to errors omissions and fraud. Interposing secure and private data Services would thus directly benefit accounting auditing etc in a manner that facilitates selective disclosure so that a trusted entity stays reliable and suitable regulators compliance legal or mediator conflict resolution etc. can be allowed to selectively peek at XML tags in order to build confidence in the transactions. The advantage of trustworthy XML is that the payloads can encode proprietary formats between participants that the storing party does not need to know about or even try to understand. The layers of trustworthy wrappers thus add significant technical and business value along with legal and compliance value and sovereign entity value.

In another application health care system integration is onerous due to a disparate incompatible legacy systems and b more important loss of stickiness of patients to existing solution providers. By introducing cloud data services as the Clearing House and trustworthy XML as the interchange format these existing solution providers can consider this as an avenue to retain that stickiness while also leveraging the universal format facilitated by XML.

With respect to using routers gateways guardians that are FTO enabled and leveraging Trustworthy XML is that a routers can do their thing without needing to learn more than necessary for routing b routers have fewer degrees of freedom for errors or bad behavior c due to the late binding complex key management is eliminated.

In addition tags can be added or augmented or additional metadata can be applied to XML documents to indicate that the contents are of various levels of sensitivity. For example a document may exist that has Public Secret and Top Secret paragraphs. A person performing a search and requesting access with a Secret clearance would only get access to Public and Secret paragraphs for instance. A paragraph s classification could also be used to determine the encryption mechanism key and access policy. For example Top Secret content cannot be accessed from a wireless or remote device.

Similarly the classification could be used to create a policy on how data could be stored where it could be store how long it could be stored. For example medical data must be backed up once a day using AES 256 encryption to a secure server in a trustworthy datacenter.

As provided for various embodiments Trustworthy XML protects data in a whole to a lower node level and is capable of protecting access privileges at the node level in a generic and efficient way.

A variety of samples illustrating one or more concepts are set forth below in which anonymous IBE is employed and or in which AES is used as a cryptographic technique for obscuring. However it is to be understood that any suitable mathematical transformations can be used in such examples and thus the given technique for obscuring or hiding XML data should not be taken as limiting on any of the more general concepts.

In one embodiment the encoding of XML can be done by passing the XML through an Encoding Transducer which outputs the Trustworthy XML and the decoding can be done by passing the Trustworthy XML through a corresponding Decoding Transducer. In this regard the same node can be protected multiply wrapped at multiple levels to have higher protection over the boundary of the node.

In the following illustrative but non limiting example a patient record is used for explaining an implementation of Trustworthy XML using notions of selective encoding to treat different data portions differently.

In one non limiting aspect Trustworthy XML enables the protection of selected parts of an XML document but not the whole document. For instance an implementation can protect the elements of the inner block which are all marked as action encode .

This selective encoding can be done in any element level e.g. it can be done for the flat element as the above or it can be set for some hierarchical element like BloodTest as following 

For setup to perform the various mathematical transformations such as but not limited to encryption pre processor information can be generated. For instance anonymous IBE AIBE and AES can be used as crypto techniques though it is again noted that these are non limiting.

In one embodiment the system can have an independent Capability Generation Center CGC for managing and generating the secrets for AIBE as described generally for a federated architecture as described elsewhere herein.

To perform AIBE Setup in one embodiment the CGC can generate Public parameter s PUB and the Master Secret Key MSK . The MSK can be kept secret in the CGC. The PUB can be supplied to the end users of the application for when using AIBE.

With respect to data processing to be performed as part of the encoding first a 256 bit AES Encryption key K is generated. Next AES encrypts the record R e.g. 

The Id of the document can then be taken and it can be appended with the element name. This will be used as the Identity Keyword w . For example here w may be JK392E8DBloodTest . Next the K is protected using AIBE e.g. as follows 

Again the transformation information used is added. Here for example it is again Encrypt and AIBE e.g. as follows 

The above example thus highlights that any data obscuring or other mathematical transformations can be applied to different parts of the XML data encoding the different parts differently and enabling selective access into the data.

With respect to decoding initially a capability is retrieved or received by a requesting entity. To obtain a capability the decoder supplies the Identity Keyword w to the CGC asking for the Capability C . Depending on the request the CGC supplies the capability C for the given Identity Keyword .

In this regard the supplied Capability opens the K for the matched Identity Keyword w but not other K s. In the given sample if the user wants to get the Name in the document the user supplies the Identity Keyword w for the element Name .

Once the user obtains the Capability it can be applied on the K to get the K according to the following 

Various additional embodiments and detail regarding a federated trust overlay architecture as described for containerless data is provided below for supplemental context.

As described above independent data protection and cryptographic techniques are variously combined to enhance privacy trust and security concerning data e.g. stored as a data at a remote site such as maintained by a CSP. While a general ecosystem is described below in the context of a general data or network service such general data or network service can be used to for any one or more of the above described scenarios for storing data at a remote site.

A digital escrow pattern is provided for network data services including searchable encryption techniques for data stored in a cloud distributing trust across multiple entities to avoid compromise by a single entity. In one embodiment a key generator a cryptographic technology provider and a cloud services provider are each provided as separate entities enabling a publisher of data to publish data confidentially encrypted to a cloud services provider and then expose the encrypted data selectively to subscribers requesting that data based on subscriber identity information encoded in key information generated in response to the subscriber requests.

With respect to the searchable encryption decryption algorithm s a searchable public key encryption PEKS scheme implemented by one or more cryptographic technology providers generates for any given message W a trapdoor TW such that TW allows a check of whether a given ciphertext is an encryption of W or not where TW does not reveal any additional information about the plaintext. In accordance with various embodiments described below PEKS schemes can be used to prioritize or filter encrypted data such as encrypted messages based on keywords contained in the data e.g. the message text. A data recipient can thus be given selected access to parts of the encrypted data relating to keyword s by releasing the capabilities sometimes called trapdoors by cryptographers for the corresponding keyword s . This way the encrypted data can be checked for these keywords but there is assurance that nothing more will be learned from a subscriber than the subscriber s capabilities allow.

For the avoidance of doubt while PEKS is disclosed as an algorithm for implementing searchable encryption in one or more embodiments herein it can be appreciated that a variety of alternative algorithms exist for achieving searchable encryption. Some exemplary non limiting alternatives to PEKS for instance include Oblivious RAMs. Thus the terminology Searchable Encryption as used herein should not be limited to any one technique and thus refers to a wide range of encryption mechanisms or combination of encryption mechanisms that allow selective access of a subset of encrypted data based on search or query functionality over the encrypted data.

Optionally validation and or verification of results can be provided as an additional benefit to subscribers and publishers of data in the ecosystem. Validation provides a way of validating that the items of data received as a result of a subscription request for a subset of data is the correct set of items i.e. that the correct subset of data that should have been received was in fact received. A technique in the cryptographic arts is proof s of data possession PDP however for the avoidance of doubt PDP is just an example algorithm that can be implemented and that others that achieve the same or similar objectives can be used. Provable or Proof s of Data Possession is a topic about how to frequently efficiently and securely verify that a storage server is faithfully storing its client s potentially large outsourced data. The storage server is assumed to be untrusted in terms of both security and reliability.

Verification of results provides an additional mechanism for checking that the contents of the items themselves i.e. to ensure that the items received in connection with the subscription request were not tampered with by any unauthorized entity. An example of verification in the cryptographic arts is proof s of data possession PDP however for the avoidance of doubt PDP is just an example algorithm that can be implemented and that others that achieve the same or similar objectives can be used. Another technique known in the cryptographic arts is proof s of retrievability POR however for the avoidance of doubt POR is just an example algorithm that can be implemented and that others that achieve the same or similar objectives can be used. A POR is a compact proof by a service provider or data hoster prover to a client verifier that a target file F is intact in the sense that the client can fully recover file F and that no tampering has occurred.

As an additional option the ecosystem can implement notions of anonymous credentials whereby publishers can upload information about themselves in an anonymous way without exposing critical details and subscribers can be limited by their capabilities so that they cannot be exposed or provided access to critical details uploaded by a publisher. In this way a publisher or subscriber can interact with the system while exposing only as much information as they wish to third parties.

Conventional web services have been limited to static client server arrangements and statically defined user policy for accessing data of the web service. However when many publishers and subscribers are contemplated according to constantly changing and evolving complex business and other relationships such conventional web services model fail to be flexible or secure enough. Accordingly in various embodiments late binding is enabled such that publishers and or owners of data and content can change access privileges to encrypted content based on who the subscriber s are based on their capability ies and based on what they are looking for e.g. based on the keyword s employed in a request for data. Thus what a subscriber can selectively access changes dynamically consistent with changes to the access privileges by the publishers and or owners since subscriber capabilities are encoded in the key information provided by the key generator on the fly. Thus subscriber privileges are defined for a given request at the time of key generation for the request and thus always reflect current policy with respect to request from the subscriber.

Similarly an administrator of a server of a trustworthy cloud service can be permitted to observe the log of activity and data transactions handled by the server but can also be restricted from seeing any customer names or credit card information. The identity of the subscriber can thus be the basis for limiting the kind of data the subscriber can access.

Various non limiting embodiments of a trustworthy ecosystem are presented herein in the context of building trust for a cloud service however the trust building of the ecosystem provided herein is much more general and not limited to application to cloud services. Rather the embodiments described herein are similarly applicable to different servers or participants within enterprise data centers. Thus while the data may never leave a given entity the techniques for building trust as described herein are equally applicable where different processes within an enterprise operate within separate regions of control. Without visibility across all enterprise processes similar mistrust issues can develop as if the participants were external to the enterprise. For instance a Server could be breached within the enterprise even though it is in the control of the administrator or the administrator could be careless or malicious.

In addition to applying to encrypted data in the cloud the various techniques of the subject disclosure can also apply to data stored on a laptop or other portable device since the laptop may be lost or stolen. In such a case the device could end up in the possession of an overly curious or malicious entity however the same techniques described herein that apply to protecting data in the cloud can also be applied to protect data on servers or laptops. If the local data is encrypted without proper subscriber credentials a thief will not be able to understand the local encrypted data being able to show no proper role or capabilities to access the data.

For instance administrators can be a specialized set of permissions over data to help maintain the operation of trustworthy data store and auditor entities can help maintain the integrity of certain data within scope of the audit. For instance an auditor could subscribe to messages of data containing offensive keywords in which case the auditor if permitted according to capabilities granted would be alerted when messages of data contained such offensive keywords but unable to read other messages. In this regard a myriad of scenarios can be built based on the ability to place publisher data into digital escrow such that keys can be handed out enabling selective access to that data.

For instance a publisher authenticates to the ecosystem and indicates a set of documents to upload to the ecosystem. The documents are encrypted according to a searchable encryption algorithm based on cryptographic key information received from a separate key generator that generates the cryptographic key information. Then the encrypted data is transmitted to a network service provider for storage of the encrypted data such that the encrypted data is selectively accessible according to late binding of selected privileges granted to a requesting device based on identity information of the requesting device. Separating the cryptographic technology provider from the storage of the encrypted data additionally insulates the encrypted data from further compromise.

In this regard is a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary non limiting method for publishing data according to the trustworthy cloud services ecosystem. At a publisher authenticates to the system e.g. publisher logs in with username and password Live ID credentials etc. . At key information is generated by key generator such as a center for key generation as described in one or more embodiments below. At a separate cryptographic technology provider encrypts a set of publisher documents based on the key information. At the encrypted documents are uploaded with capabilities to network service provider e.g. storage service provider such that the encrypted document s are selectively accessible with late binding of selected privileges granted based on identity information of a requesting device subscriber .

On the subscriber side for example a subscriber authenticates to the ecosystem and indicates a request for a subset of data e.g. a query for a subset of documents containing a given keyword or set of keywords. In response to a request for a subset of searchably encrypted data from at least one subscriber device a key generation component generates cryptographic key information based on identity information associated with the subscriber device. Then the subset of encrypted data is decrypted as a function of privileges granted the subscriber device as defined in the cryptographic key information.

In one embodiment the identity information of the subscriber device includes a role of the subscriber. For instance an auditor role or administrator role or other pre specified role can be used by publishers owners as a basis for restricting or granting access to various portions of the searchably encrypted data store.

In general each of CKG CTP or CSP can be subdivided into subcomponents depending on a given implementation however the overall separation is preserved to maintain trust. For instance CKG entities such as master public key MPK delivery client library downloader secret key extractor trust verifier or other subcomponents can be provided separately in subsets or together as an integrated component. CTP entities such as client app for encoding and decoding alternative encryption techniques an application for interfacing with the CKG other crypto building blocks etc. can also be provided separately in subsets or together. Moreover CSP can be thought of as many separate service providers such as CSPs hosting storage service and service hosting respectively or such services can be provided together.

It can be appreciated that the CKG or CKG instance s hosted by one or more participants in the trustworthy ecosystem is not required to be a single monolithic entity. Rather the CKG can be separated into a number of redundant entities that cooperate to generate keys so that operation can continue even if a small subset of the participants are offline. In one embodiment optionally a set of participants can be trusted in aggregate even if a small subset of these participants have been compromised by an adversary or otherwise become unavailable or untrusted.

In this regard to publish data a publisher obtains public parameters for encrypting data based on the output from CKG . Based on the public parameters the data is encrypted by the publisher device at using an independent cryptographic technology provider. The encrypted data is uploaded to a storage abstraction service which hides the storage semantics in connection with storing the encrypted data by one or more CSPs such as CSPs or . On the subscriber device a request for data results in the generation of a private secret key from CKG . The private secret key includes information that enables the subscriber device to selectively access the searchably encrypted data by decrypting the data at . Again the semantics of retrieving the data from CSPs is hidden by the storage abstraction service . Also the privileges granted to the subscriber device are the current set of privileges due to late binding of capabilities granted by publishers owners.

It can be appreciated from that multiple data owners either enterprises or consumers can participate in a trustworthy ecosystem as described herein to establish trusted relationships. In such case each owner can host or control their own CKG e.g. CKG of organization so that requests or queries for data are forwarded to the corresponding CKGs to gather the necessary keys from all co owners of the requested data.

In this regard for the avoidance of doubt is directed to multiple situations. In one situation covers the disintermediation of storage providers abstracting them out as individuals through the Storage Abstraction Service also referred to sometimes as the Compute and Storage Abstraction CSA . In addition covers scenarios where data is segmented and or fanned out e.g. for redundancy to multiple back end storage providers which can be of the same or different type such that the original data can be reconstituted even is one or a small number of the back end Storage Providers accidentally or intentionally delete or alter their copies of the data.

Then another organization e.g. behaving as a publisher can encrypt data based on the key information obtained from CKG at which point computer and storage abstraction component of a second data center handles the details of storing the searchably encrypted data at a third data center e.g. in CSP . On the flip side when a subscriber of organization requests data private or secret key information is delivered to subscriber as part of extraction . Next based on the private key information which includes capabilities defined for the subscriber data requested by the subscriber is decrypted at assuming the subscriber has privileges and again abstraction layer handles the details of the underlying storage .

On top of abstraction layer is the layer that ties into various more specific platform technologies e.g. SDS Azure Backup Archive RMS STS etc. . On top of the layer that ties into various specific platform technologies are the various SaaS applications that use the trusted digital escrow . The exemplary non limiting illustration shows that the digital escrow apps can be implemented by a single company or by partners or by both. For instance company may implement services such as high performance computing HPC eDiscovery and Legal Discovery Live Services e.g. DBox backup archive as a service audit log business process and monitoring or other cloud services . In turn partners could implement services such as eLetterOfCredit HPC as a service for verticals eHealth services secure extranet compliance litigation support etc.

Any type of application can be realized in the cloud due to the increased trust inherent in the division of key generator crypto provider and cloud service provider and other technique s described herein. In this regard having enabled such a trustworthy cloud services ecosystem a set of rich services and scenarios can be realized that take advantage of one or more of the benefits of the trustworthy ecosystem described herein.

For instance is a flow diagram of an exemplary non limiting process for publishing documents to a digital safe application in a way that provides publisher controlled selective access to the data with late binding as described above. At a device is authenticates e.g. the device logs in with a username and password password credentials biometric credentials Live ID credentials etc. . At the document s are uploaded and tags are entered. The tags are sent to an escrow agent at and hashed tags are received from the escrow agent in response. In this regard the tags can be supplied as mentioned or alternatively can be automatically extracted from the payload record document e.g. through full text indexing. At the client encrypts the documents with the publisher s key information and the document s are sent to a secure digital cloud storage provider along with capabilities for subscribers with respect to the document s . At the secure digital cloud storage provider sends the encrypted blob to a storage service e.g. vis vis a storage abstraction layer.

In this regard in a trustworthy cloud services ecosystem when a subscriber using the desktop seeks information selectively accessible and encrypted from storage a security token service can deliver some information to identify the subscriber and the CKG can be consulted via interfaces of the CKG layer of a first data center as shown by . The CKG returns key information which can then be used to selectively access data as shown by held by data service via storage abstraction service . Any type of data can be therefore be shared across an enterprise and selectively according to the roles of the subscribers in the enterprise.

The method can include a step of receiving a conjunctive query or otherwise initiating a conjunction query. In this regard optionally conjunctive queries can also be cryptographically protected so that no recipient of a trapdoor or capability either the client or the service provider can decompose the conjunctive query and determine its constituent parts.

In an exemplary non limiting interaction initially a request from a computing device is provisioned and the hoster of the CKG requests an instance of the CKG from the CKG factory at . Next user authentication takes place at . Next any usage based billing can be applied by billing system for use of the CKG factory . Next the tenant CKG is materialized at by CKG factory which may include MPK delivery component client library downloader secret key extractor and trust validator verifier .

MPK delivery component delivers MPK to the CDN at . Client library downloader downloads crypto libraries to requesting clients which can be used in connection with encrypting data to be published or decrypting data to which the device is subscribed. Next the client makes request to extract a given set of documents based on key information received from secret key extractor which cooperates with trust verifier which can validate that the subscriber has certain capabilities based on verifying the STS thumbprint of the subscriber at e.g. based on communication with different STSs of organizations involved in the request. As in other embodiments a storage abstraction service can be provided to abstract storage details of database services e.g. SQL .

In the Trustworthy Data Store or the Service Provider or Hoster of the data store performs the proving step whereas the owner of the data e.g. the subscriber device performs the validation. Data Store is trusted because the users can have confidence that it provides strong guarantees though it is understood that physical entities actually host that data and some participants are not fully trusted.

In many cases it is desirable to be able to execute PDP POR over encrypted data without needing to decrypt it. Optionally the key information needed for PDP can be encoded within the metadata that was protected with Searchable Encryption. While this is an effective way of managing the keys used for PDP POR it is noted there are many high value scenarios where PDP POR can be performed on encrypted data without needing access to the cleartext contents.

The validation generally illustrated in is known as private PDP though it is noted there is also a Public version where a third party is provided with a key a public key so the third party acts as the Verifier according to a similar protocol without coming to know anything about the actual data. POR an example of verification is different from PDP in that it provides proof that the data is retrievable despite any corruptions modifications but as illustrated in below the basic protocol is the same though the structure of the documents and the actual algorithms are different. Various implementations of a trustworthy ecosystem herein combine Searchable Encryption and POR PDP to benefit the system and bolster trust. In this regard before submitting the data to the Service Provider the data is searchably encrypted and post processing of the data can include POR and or PDP.

In addition a data dispersion technique can optionally be overlaid on any one or more of the above embodiments if there is a need to provide even stronger guarantees. With data dispersion data is distributed to several Service Providers for resilience against massively bad behavior or catastrophic loss in any single Service Provider. Using the trust mechanisms described herein this dispersion is performed in a way that makes it difficult for independent Service Providers to collude and corrupt the data. This is similar in concept to the above described distributed CKG embodiment.

Blind Fingerprints represent another kind of cryptographic technique that extends network de duping techniques such as Rabin Fingerprints which are typically used for minimizing the exchange of redundant data over a network. In various embodiments herein fingerprinting is applied such that a participant in the protocol e.g. the CSP in the case of storage of data is unaware of the actual contents of the data that they are hosting.

For some additional context regarding Blind Fingerprints any large exchange of data across wide area networks WANs including the maintenance of a data will desire techniques for de duping over the wire or making sure that unnecessary data is not sent over the wire. This is accomplished by fingerprinting segments of the data and then exchanging fingerprints so that senders know what they have that the receivers do not have. Also the receivers know for what data they need to ask the senders. Distributed File Service Replication DFS R can be used for optimizing data exchanges in scenarios such as branch office backups and distributed file systems over a WAN.

In the case of Exchange there is significant duplication of data and it is possible that up to 50 or more of data on the wire could be duplicates at any given time. The fingerprints can be obtained at the block level or at an object level e.g. e mail calendar items tasks contacts etc. The fingerprints can be cached at both the primary and secondary data centers. Thus if there is a failure at a primary data center then the secondary data can be restored to the primary data center along with fingerprints. The encryption of data at the primary data center should nonetheless allow the fingerprints to be visible to the secondary data center operator despite being obscured. This can be achieved for example by storing fingerprints as keywords metadata with searchable encryption so that other than authorized entities agents in the secondary data center no other entity would be able to detect patterns.

In the context of data services when sending up a full or an incremental the primary data center can examine each item segment block in the logs or EDB and consult the local copy of the fingerprints. If there is a match then the primary data center replaces the item segment block with the fingerprint. The term blind fingerprints is referred to as such herein because of the manner in which fingerprinting is applied. In one embodiment the selection of cryptographic technologies to achieve blind fingerprinting includes a size preservation cryptographic technique.

The system thus includes data stores that include as an abstraction data stores . . . for storing selectively accessible data or metadata . Publishers can publish the data or the metadata representing at least one resource to the data stores and a first independent entity performs generating of access information applicable to the data or the metadata as published and a second independent entity distributes the data or the metadata as published across a set of data stores of the data stores while maintaining knowledge of the set of data stores that store the data or the metadata as published.

This knowledge is thus a secret that cannot be revealed without the access information. The data or metadata can be published via network service s that provide selective access to the data or the metadata as published for a given request to the network service based on late bound selected privileges granted by the publisher s or owner s of the at least one resource and represented by the access information. The data stores include a plurality of containers of same or disparate container type and the data or the metadata as published is automatically distributed across at least one container of the plurality of containers. The distribution can be based on any algorithm known to the data distributor e.g. based on a real time analysis of the storage resources represented by the plurality of containers based on characteristics of the data or metadata or any other parameters that are appropriate for the given application.

Accordingly when subscribers make a request for the data or metadata the network service s consult with the independent entities and or to determine whether the subscribers are permitted to have access information that enables reassembly of the data. For instance a data map can be the secret that permits reassembly of the data. This embodiment can be combined with other mathematical transformations such as encryption in order to provide additional protection over the data. Such additional mathematical transformations can be overseen by further independent entities for additional distribution of trust for further comfort that the data remains invisible except to authorized parties.

Herein described are a variety of exemplary non limiting embodiments that illustrate the delivery of trustworthy data services. These embodiments are not standalone but rather can be combined with one another where appropriate. In addition any of the above described embodiments can be extended in a number of alternative ways. For instance in one embodiment the trustworthy data services provide for the expiry and revocation of trapdoors or capabilities for greater degree of security over the access to the data. In another optional embodiment a rights management layer is built into the provision of trustworthy data services e.g. to preserve rights attached to content as part of encryption decryption or to prevent acts with respect to copyrighted data in digital escrow that are more easily recognizable or detectable in the clear. Accordingly any combinations or permutations of embodiments described herein are contemplated as within scope of the subject disclosure.

An exemplary implementation of the digital escrow pattern is referred to as a Federated Trust Overlay FTO . Attached in Appendix A are some additional non limiting details about FTO implementations.

In this regard the Digital Escrow Pattern is just an example of many possible patterns and variations. Furthermore this pattern which involves publishers subscribers administrators and auditors and possibly other specialized roles as described above is layered over another underlying FTO pattern which performs the church state separation of CTP CSP CKG etc. to maintain trust. There can also be multiple independent FTOs and DEPs that could co exist without interfering with each other and without even knowing about the existence of each other. Also it is possible to overlay DEP and FTO patterns over Cloud storage without the Cloud Storage service provider co operating or even coming to know about the existence of these patterns overlays.

In more detail an FTO is a set of services that is independent of the data services in the cloud. These services are operated by parties other than the operator of the data services and are able to provide strong guarantees regarding confidentiality tamper detection and non repudiation for the data hosted by the cloud services.

Any partner can construct and host these overlay services e.g. a Mediator Service the validation service Storage Abstraction service etc. These partners might choose to host a reference implementation or construct their own implementation based on openly available formats and protocols.

Due to the open nature of the formats protocols and the reference implementations it would be straightforward to maintain a separation of control among parties such as the operators of the FTO and the Data Owners.

While encryption is an element of this solution the orchestration of services that are federated across different parties is also a part of the solution. While conventional encryption techniques are compelling for many scenarios they preclude enabling many of the scenarios like tamper detection non repudiation building trust by orchestrating multiple untrusted services searching data repositories etc.

For some additional non limiting context as described above a trustworthy set of cloud offerings enables an application ecosystem for the cloud that builds on the trust. Various terminology used herein includes CKG Center for Key Generation an entity that hosts a multi tenant key generation center e.g. any of Microsoft VeriSign Fidelity A Sovereign Entity Enterprise Compliance Entity etc. could host the CKG. In this regard multi tenancy is optional e.g. desirable but not mandatory . Other terminology includes CTP Crypto Technology Provider an entity that provides encryption technologies for use with the trustworthy ecosystem e.g. any of Symantec Certicom Voltage PGP Corp BitArmor Enterprise Guardian Sovereign Entity etc. are example companies that could be CTPs.

In addition the term CSP Cloud Service Provider is an entity that provides cloud services including storage. A variety of companies can provide such data services. A CIV Cloud Index Validator is a second repository to validate returned indices. A CSA Compute and Storage Abstraction abstracts the storage back end. STF Storage Transfer Format is a universal format for transferring data metadata across repositories.

In this regard as mentioned some enterprise scenario s includes engineering extranet using data service technologies or applications design and engineering analysis defining data relationships among manufacturer and supplier s etc. A unique ecosystem is thus enabled for a whole variety of scenarios by distributing trust across multiple entities so that no uber trusted entity or single point of compromise exists.

With respect to some supplemental context regarding searchable encryption a user typically has or gets capabilities or trapdoors for keyword s and then sends a request using the capabilities presenting them to the server. The server combines capabilities and indices to find relevant documents or data. The user is then given access only to documents that result from the search though the user may have access to more than just those documents .

As mentioned no single algorithm should be considered as limiting on the provision of a searchably encrypted data store as described herein however the below generally outlines some of the theory behind an exemplary non limiting algorithm and provides a primer for the Searchable Symmetric Encryption SSE Pattern 

While again not to be considered limiting on any embodiment described herein the following is a primer regarding public key encryption w keyword search PEKS pattern.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the various embodiments of methods and devices for a trustworthy cloud services framework and related embodiments described herein can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment and can be connected to any kind of data store. In this regard the various embodiments described herein can be implemented in any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units. This includes but is not limited to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or a distributed computing environment having remote or local storage.

The computing objects or devices etc. and computing objects or devices etc. can communicate with one or more other computing objects or devices etc. and computing objects or devices etc. by way of the communications network either directly or indirectly. Even though illustrated as a single element in network may comprise other computing objects and computing devices that provide services to the system of and or may represent multiple interconnected networks which are not shown. Computing objects or devices etc. or etc. can also contain an application such as applications that might make use of an API or other object software firmware and or hardware suitable for communication with or implementation of a trustworthy cloud computing service or application as provided in accordance with various embodiments.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems can be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks though any network infrastructure can be used for exemplary communications made incident to the techniques as described in various embodiments.

Thus a host of network topologies and network infrastructures such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures can be utilized. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the illustration of as a non limiting example computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as clients and computing objects or devices etc. can be thought of as servers where computing objects or devices etc. provide data services such as receiving data from computing objects or devices etc. storing of data processing of data transmitting data to clients such as computing objects or devices etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate the improved user profiling and related techniques as described herein for one or more embodiments.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet or wireless network infrastructures. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the user profiling can be provided standalone or distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the computing objects or devices etc. can be Web servers with which the clients such as computing objects or devices etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . Servers such as computing objects or devices etc. may also serve as clients such as computing objects or devices etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

As mentioned various embodiments described herein apply to any device wherein it may be desirable to implement one or pieces of a trustworthy cloud services framework. It should be understood therefore that handheld portable and other computing devices and computing objects of all kinds are contemplated for use in connection with the various embodiments described herein i.e. anywhere that a device may provide some functionality in connection with a trustworthy cloud services framework. Accordingly the below general purpose remote computer described below in is but one example and the embodiments of the subject disclosure may be implemented with any client having network bus interoperability and interaction.

Although not required any of the embodiments can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the operable component s . Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that network interactions may be practiced with a variety of computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to an exemplary remote device for implementing one or more embodiments herein can include a general purpose computing device in the form of a handheld computer . Components of handheld computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media such as but not limited to digital versatile disks DVDs flash storage internal or external hard drives compact disks CDs etc. and can be any available media that can be accessed by computer including remote drives cloud storage disks etc. The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface . In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments have been described in connection with various computing devices networks and advertising architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any network system and any computing device or system in which it is desirable to provide trust in connection with interactions with a cloud service.

There are multiple ways of implementing one or more of the embodiments described herein e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use a trustworthy cloud services framework. Embodiments may be contemplated from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that provides pointing platform services in accordance with one or more of the described embodiments. Various implementations and embodiments described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. For the avoidance of doubt the subject matter disclosed herein is not limited by such examples. In addition any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other aspects or designs nor is it meant to preclude equivalent exemplary structures and techniques known to those of ordinary skill in the art. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has contains and other similar words are used in either the detailed description or the claims for the avoidance of doubt such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as an open transition word without precluding any additional or other elements.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. As used herein the terms component system and the like are likewise intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on computer and the computer can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

The aforementioned systems have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It can be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or specified sub components some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components and according to various permutations and combinations of the foregoing. Sub components can also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components hierarchical . Additionally it should be noted that one or more components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality or divided into several separate sub components and any one or more middle layers such as a management layer may be provided to communicatively couple to such sub components in order to provide integrated functionality. Any components described herein may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein but generally known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the exemplary systems described supra methodologies that may be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter will be better appreciated with reference to the flowcharts of the various figures. While for purposes of simplicity of explanation the methodologies are shown and described as a series of blocks it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of the blocks as some blocks may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other blocks from what is depicted and described herein. Where non sequential or branched flow is illustrated via flowchart it can be appreciated that various other branches flow paths and orders of the blocks may be implemented which achieve the same or a similar result. Moreover not all illustrated blocks may be required to implement the methodologies described hereinafter.

While in some embodiments a client side perspective is illustrated it is to be understood for the avoidance of doubt that a corresponding server perspective exists or vice versa. Similarly where a method is practiced a corresponding device can be provided having storage and at least one processor configured to practice that method via one or more components.

While the various embodiments have been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function without deviating therefrom. Still further one or more aspects of the above described embodiments may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

