---

title: Investor personality tool
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to a computer system comprising at least one computer programmed to provide a user interface to a user via a first computer device. The user interface may comprise a first axis describing a desired level of involvement of the user in investment decisions and a second axis describing a risk tolerance of the user. The user interface may also comprise a first icon representing a first position on the first and second axes and a second icon representing a second position on the first and second axes. When the first or second icons are activated, the interface may display a description of respective example investors having investment characteristics corresponding to the respective first and second positions on the axes. The user interface may also comprise first and second slider bars corresponding to the respective axes. The slider bars may be movable in response to a signal from a first input device in communication with the computer system. The computer system may be further programmed to receive from the user, via the user interface, an indication of a user position on the first and second axes; and store first data describing the user position on the first and second axis in association with an identifier of the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08423444&OS=08423444&RS=08423444
owner: The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
number: 08423444
owner_city: Pittsburgh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100702
---
Many financial institutions offer investment services including for example retirement related investment services. The predominant model for marketing and providing investment services caters to the needs of high net worth individuals who are often referred to as wealth management clients. The wealth management model is highly dependent on relationships between individual investors and their advisors. Although this business model works well for high net worth investors it has certain problems that become apparent when applied to investors with less money to invest e.g. mass affluent investors . For example it is difficult for financial institutions to reach out to potential new clients who do not have regular contact with financial advisors either in their personal or professional lives. Also the individual nature of the financial planning business makes it difficult for financial institutions to build a brand or reputation for sound financial advice that might draw additional clients.

Some investment service providers have attempted to address these problems with mass media advertising. For example some providers now advertise their investment management services on radio television and billboards. These advertisements however are typically general in nature touting abstract concepts about the strength or history of the provider with little information about the investment services to be provided. The Internet is another marketing medium used by providers of investment services. Internet web pages can give providers the ability to show detailed information about their services to a wide group of potential consumers. Even these tools however are designed to draw investors to build relationships with one or more advisors leaving clients level of business and level of satisfaction with investment services highly dependent on the resulting relationship or relationships.

Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for providing investment services across multiple media and multiple locations. For example a financial institution may facilitate investment services via a computer generated user interface. The interface may be provided to current as well as potential investment clients of the financial institution. The interface may provide the clients with various investment related services. For example the interface may provide clients and potential clients with investment related tools such as a retirement lifestyle planning tool and or an investor personality tool. A retirement lifestyle planning tool may be used by a client to estimate the client s retirement expenses and income. This information may be utilized by the client to develop a retirement savings and spending plan. An investor personality tool may be utilized to classify a client and determine a type or types of investments that may be of interest to the client.

In addition to the retirement lifestyle planning tool and the investor personality tool the interface may in various embodiments also provide clients and potential clients with access to investment advice in the form of prepared research prepared written advice live chats with financial advisors and or functionality for scheduling an in person meeting with a financial advisor. In addition certain embodiments of the interface may also have functionality allowing a client to execute transactions to buy and sell investment products electronically.

The interface may be served by a host system implemented for example by the financial services firm. According to various embodiments the host system may be designed to provide the user interface at different locations via different access media. According to various embodiments at least some aspects of the user interface may be made available at public locations such as branch offices of the financial institutions kiosks located at shopping centers automated teller machines ATM s etc. Branch devices positioned at the public locations may provide the interface to clients and potential clients. Via the branch devices potential clients may be able to access some functionality of the interface. For example potential clients may be able to access investment tools such as the retirement lifestyle tool and or the investor personality tool referenced above. Also the interface may be accessible to clients and or potential clients via their own user devices e.g. over the Internet at home or other locations. User devices may include any sort of computing device including for example personal computers laptop computers personal digital assistants mobile phones etc. According to various embodiments the user interface may be implemented with transition mechanisms that allow a user e.g. a client or potential client to access the interface at a branch device and then re access the interface from a branch device or user device all while maintaining information that was originally entered and or derived at the public location.

According to various embodiments the retirement lifestyle planning tool may provide functionality allowing the user to estimate the user s expenses income and general financial condition during retirement. The tool may be used according to various embodiments to develop an investment plan that will leave the user with sufficient funds to live an envisioned retirement lifestyle and or leave the user with a realistic expectation of the retirement lifestyle possible with their current and future savings.

According to various embodiments the retirement lifestyle planning tool may be provided with two or more levels of detail. For example different levels of detail may require different levels of input information from the user and may generate results at a corresponding level of detail and or accuracy. According to various embodiments lower levels of detail may be suitable for access at public locations via branch devices. For example a user may be hesitant to enter detailed financial information at a branch device or may not have time to do so. By utilizing the lower level of detail the user may obtain meaningful results at a branch device without investing large quantities of time or giving up potentially personal information. The user may then re access the tool later at a higher level of detail through another branch device or a user device. It will be appreciated that in certain embodiments high levels of detail may be available through branch devices and lower levels of detail may be available through user devices. Also according to various embodiments higher levels of detail may be made available to registered users e.g. users who are already banking or investment clients of the financial institution instituting the interface . Additionally the level of detail accessible to a registered user may depend on their degree of registration. For example users who are banking clients of the financial institution may be provided with one level of detail while users who are banking and investment clients may be provided with a higher level of detail.

The screen may also comprise a field listing retirement expense categories. Example categories listed in include Location Home Travel Work Activities Every Day Family and Health. Information to estimate or model the expense categories for a given user may be received from the user or pre populated for example based on other characteristics or selections of the user e.g. the selections made at field . According to various embodiments the user may transition the tool to display different screens associated with different expense categories by selecting a desired category from the field .

It will be appreciated that the tool may include screens for additional expense categories including for example Travel Work Every Day and Family as shown in the field . Some or all of the screens for these categories may include basic input screens as well as high detail input screens. Also it will be appreciated that additional expense categories may be added and some of the disclosed categories may be omitted. The result of the retirement lifestyle planning tool may be an indication of the amount of money that the user will spend in retirement. This number may be presented to the user in any suitable form. For example the user may be presented with an indication of periodic e.g. monthly retirement expenses. In addition or instead the user may be presented with an indication of how much money is required at the outset of retirement to live the lifestyle indicated in the various expense categories.

As described above the retirement lifestyle planning tool may comprise multiple levels of detail. For example basic fields may make up a first basic level of detail. For example screens including these fields may be made available to users at branch devices and or at user devices to pique the user s interest in the tool . When the user has additional time they may access the high detail fields for example from a user device or from a branch device . According to various embodiments the user may utilize a transition mechanism such as those described herein to save their work and transition from a branch device or user device to another branch device or user device.

The basic Location field may comprise a menu for selecting a location and a field for indicating whether the location is rural or urban. The basic Home field may comprise a menu for indicating at type of home will be used and a field for indicating whether the mortgage will be paid off during retirement. The basic Travel field may comprise a slider bar for indicating the desired frequency of travel as well as an indicator field for indicating whether the desired travel will be mostly international. The basic Income field may comprise a slider bar for indicating an amount of post retirement income. The basic Every Day field may comprise a slider bar for indicating a periodic cost of every day expenses such as food shopping and transportation. The basic Activities field may comprise a slider bar for indicating a periodic cost of activities. The basic Family field may comprise a slider bar for indicating a periodic amount provided to family. The basic Health field may comprise fields for receiving an indication of whether the user s current health benefits will apply during retirement an indication of whether the user wants to plan for additional insurance and an indication of whether the user wants to plan for assisted living. According to various embodiments the screen may also comprise an Add Category field . This may allow a user to add an additional category of retirement spending not covered by the other categories.

As illustrated in each of the basic fields may comprise an Advanced button . When the user selects the Advanced button a high detail field may be displayed for the relevant category. For example illustrates one embodiment of the screen showing a high detail Home field . The high detail Home field may comprise a Current Home field that may be utilized by users who desire to remain in their current home during retirement. The Current Home field may comprise areas for receiving the type of the user s home and details of the user s current mortgage. A Different Home field may comprise fields for receiving information about the kind of house that the user desires to purchase during retirement. A Multiple Homes field may allow the user to describe an additional home or homes that they intend to purchase in retirement. As described herein higher detail screens such as the high detail Home field may be accessible to users at user devices and may also be accessible only to users having a predetermined degree of registration.

Referring back to in various embodiments the screen may indicate results of the retirement lifestyle planning tool for example at fields and . Investment Projection field may indicate a projected amount of assets that the user will have at retirement. This may be received for example from other tools implemented through the user interface. Lifestyle Plan Goal field may indicate an amount of money necessary for the user to meet the expenses indicated at the various fields . In this number is indicated as an amount of money necessary at retirement though it will be appreciated that any suitable form may be used e.g. monthly expenses lump sum necessary for retirement etc. . Difference field may indicate a difference between the investment projection and the lifestyle plan goal. The difference may indicate either a surplus or an additional amount that the user will need to save prior to retirement in order to meet the indicated expenses. According to various embodiments the screen may comprise an Add Another Retirement Phase button . The user may select this button in order to set expense parameters for a second or additional phase of retirement. For example the user may intend to be very active during the early years of retirement but reduce their activity and expenses in later years.

The screen may also comprise a summary field . The summary field may comprise a stacked bar chart . The bar chart may comprise a plurality of elements with each element corresponding to an expense category. The height of an element may correspond to an amount of retirement spend indicated by the user in the corresponding expense category. The total height of the bar chart may correspond to the user s total estimated retirement spend also indicated in by a Your Goal line . A Retirement Income line may likewise indicate the user s income if any in retirement. The distance between the Income line and the Your Goal line may be filled with retirement assets savings.

The user may select a screen corresponding to a particular expense category in any suitable manner. For example selecting an element from the bar chart corresponding to an expense category may cause a screen for editing information about the selected expense category to appear. Results of the retirement lifestyle planner tool may be provided via the bar chart or in various embodiments may be provided in the context of the user s investment projections as shown in . According to various embodiments the summary field may be reproduced on a paper card or other medium and provided to the user. For example the summary field or a similar field showing similar information may be reproduced on a card also including transition or re access information such as for example the card described herein.

According to various embodiments users of the tools described herein may enter information for each expense category by hand. In certain embodiments however one or more of the tools may comprise a mechanism allowing the user to pre populate values for some or all of the expense categories. The host system implementing the user interface and tool may pre populate expense categories in any suitable manner. For example when the user is a pre existing customer of the financial institution implementing the host system the host system may utilize information about the user that is already known to the financial institution as described above with respect to the tool . In addition as described above with respect to the tool the host system may retrieve information about the user from publicly available sources.

According to various embodiments the host system may request basic classification information from the user and then pre populate the expense categories by extrapolating from that basic data. Basic classification information may include information that indicates how much a user may desire and or be able to spend in retirement. For example basic classification information may include a current annual income a current age and a desired retirement age. illustrates one embodiment of an Auto Fill window for receiving basic classification information. The window or a similar form may be displayed as a part of any of the retirement lifestyle planning tools described herein. For example referring to the tool the window may be displayed when the user selects the Auto Fill your LifeStyle Plan button shown in .

In certain embodiments of the retirement lifestyle planning tools the host system may be programmed to pre populate various expense categories based on a user s selection of a example individual or couple having retirement plans and goals similar to their own. For example illustrates one embodiment of a screen describing example couples and their retirement plans. Each example couple may be a real couple or hypothetical fictional couples. A description of a first example couple indicates an extravagant retirement. A description of a second example couple indicates a comfortable retirement. A description of a third example couple indicates a simple retirement. When presented with the screen or a similar screen a user may select the couple whose retirement best matches the user s own expectations for retirement. The host system may then populate the expense categories based on the selection. illustrates one embodiment of a screen describing example individuals and their retirement plans. For example the screen may be shown to users planning their retirement as an individual instead of as a couple. For example the screen shown in describes three example individuals each planning a different type of retirement. The example individuals may be real individuals or hypothetical fictional individuals. Upon receiving a selection of one of the example individuals the host system may populate the expense categories for the relevant retirement lifestyle planning tool based on the described retirement.

According to various embodiments the screen may also comprise Print Send and Store buttons . These buttons may trigger various functionality for presenting results to the user and or transitioning to a different branch device or user device . For example selecting the Print button may cause the user device or branch device showing the screen to print results of the retirement lifestyle planning tool. In certain embodiments the printed results may also comprise a human and or computer readable code such as the code representations described herein to allow the user to re access the information entered through the screen . A Send button may cause information entered through the screen to be sent to the user s e mail address. A store button may cause information entered via the screen to be saved by the host system e.g. to one or more of the databases .

According to various embodiments the host system via the user interface may provide an investor personality tool in addition to or instead of the retirement lifestyle planning tools described above. The investor personality tool may be utilized to classify a user and determine the types of investments that may be of interest to the user. In various embodiments the investor personality tool may define an investor s personality type based on the user s position on an interest axis and a confidence axis. illustrates one embodiment of a coordinate plane for plotting investor personality. The interest axis may represent a user s degree of interest in the management of their investments e.g. the user s desired level of involvement . High interest may be represented on the right of the axis while low interest may be represented on the left of the axis . The confidence axis may represent a user s confidence in their understanding and management of investments. Lower portions of the confidence axis may represent lower levels of confidence. Likewise higher portions of the confidence axis may represent higher levels of confidence. In various embodiments the confidence axis may be replaced with a risk tolerance axis indicating the user s tolerance for financial risk.

The coordinate plane also illustrates three example investor types and their relative positions on the axes . For example a simple rules type investor may an investor who quickly and effectively evaluates new propositions based on a short list of internalized metrics. Such an investor may be uncomfortable with the time and effort necessary to learn new things manage complexity and decide between conflicting options. A questioning worrier type investor may have some knowledge of financial basics but may not be confident about how to move forward. Such an investor may be uncomfortable determining which questions to ask may easily experience information overload and may not know which sources of information to trust. A narrow comfort zone type investor may prefer proven product categories. Such an investor may be uncomfortable seeing the big picture with comparing options against each other and with overcoming investing inertia.

According to various embodiments the host system via the user interface may implement the investor personality tool at multiple levels. For example the investor personality tool may have a basic level where the user is classified according to simple input such as the user s self analysis of their interest and confidence and or a short series of basic questions. At a high detail level the user may be asked a series of detailed questions and or the user s current investment history may be analyzed to more accurately place the user on the axes . According to various embodiments the basic level tool may be designed for provision at a branch device. For example it may be relatively simple allowing the user to provide the necessary information with a minimum of spent time and effort. Information entered and results generated by the basic level tool may then be re accessed for example at a user device utilizing a transition device such as those described herein.

The one or more branch devices may be provided at public locations including for example branch offices of the financial institution shopping centers and may allow clients or potential clients e.g. users to access the interface. The branch devices may comprise various computer hardware including for example a processing unit various input output I O devices . The processing unit may comprise any suitable type of computer device including for example a personal computer a server a central processing unit CPU etc. The I O devices may comprise any suitable type of I O devices allowing the user to access the interface via the branch device . Example I O devices may include monitors touch screens keyboards track balls or other pointing devices etc. In various embodiments branch devices may also comprise a printer and or a card reader . The printer and or card reader may be utilized by one or more transition mechanisms described below which allow the user to re access data entered into and analysis received through the interface at the branch devices . It will be appreciated that depending on the transition mechanism or mechanisms utilized the printer the card reader or both may be omitted and or replaced with alternative hardware. It will also be appreciated that in certain embodiments branch devices may be or may comprise an automated teller machine ATM .

The user device may be any suitable type of computer device owned by or accessible to users that allows the users to access the user interface . Example user devices may include any suitable network enabled devices such as for example personal computers PC s automated teller machines ATM s palmtop computers mobile phones etc. Each user device may be associated with one or more users and may allow the users to access the user interface denoted as . According to various embodiments user devices may be configured to transmit and receive information via the communication network using a wired or wireless connection and may include a suitable browser software application including for example MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER MOBILE MOZILLA FIREFOX PALM BLAZER etc. for enabling the customer to display enter and interact with information exchanged via the communication network . The user devices may thus access and navigate static and or dynamic HTML documents of the user interface . According to various embodiments some or all of the user devices may comprise a camera not shown or other code reading or image capturing devices.

Advisor devices may be similar to user devices and may also communicate via the communications network . Advisor devices may be utilized by financial advisors in various capacities relative to the user interface . For example advisor devices may be used by financial advisors to upload research and other written material to be accessed by users via the interface. Also for example advisors may utilize advisor devices to conduct live chats with users regarding investments.

A second tier of the host system may comprise an application server . The application server may communicate with the Web server and the data base server e.g. Tier via the application firewall and an internal firewall respectively. The application server may host one or more Internet banking applications for executing the business logic associated with the user interface including for example the investment related tools described herein. The application server may receive user entered information from the user interface of each user device and or branch device via the Web server . Such information may include for example a user name and password customer requests to access particular investment features information for use with the investment related tools etc. Based on this and other information received from the user devices via the Web server the application server may perform transactions e.g. execute investment products purchases and sales transfer funds between investment accounts retrieve investment account balances etc. and generate corresponding informational content e.g. transfer confirmations account balance information etc. . Information regarding such transactions may be communicated to the Web server and subsequently presented to the customers using for example a dynamic Web page of the user interface . The application server may also implement the investment related tools described herein and provide investment advice including for example prepared written advice or live advice from an investment advisor via an advisor device .

The third tier of the host system may comprise a database server which may communicate with the application server via the internal firewall . The database server may manage one or more databases containing data necessary for supporting one or more investment services features. Such databases may include for example an account information database a customer information database a customer preferences settings database as well as other databases for storing additional settings and or configurations. Such information may be retrieved processed and updated as needed by the application server based on the particular Internet banking features s being used. According to various embodiments for example when the financial institution also provides general banking services the databases may also comprise information regarding a user s general banking activities. Also according to various embodiments the databases may comprise data used to pre populate all or a portion of the retirement lifestyle planning tool and or investor personality tool as described herein.

The host system may further comprise a branch server in communication with the application server for enabling access to the user interface via the branch devices . The branch devices may be in communication with the host system e.g. the branch server via a communications network and firewall . Although the communication network is depicted separately from the communication network it will be appreciated that the communication networks may be components of the network described above.

According to various embodiments the host system may also comprise a transaction server in communication with the application server . The transaction server may enable investment transactions between users and investment product managers e.g. via network . For example the transaction server may implement functionality allowing users to purchase investment products sell investment products receive estimates for the purchase of investment products etc. The investment product managers may include for example mutual fund transfer agents etc. Transactions with the investment product managers may be communicated to and from the investment product managers to the transaction server via communication network which may be a component of the network . In various embodiments however the network may be implemented as a secure proprietary network. A transaction firewall may be present between the transaction server and the communication network .

It will be appreciated that according to various embodiments the host system may also have additional functionality. For example when the financial institution implementing the host system also provides general banking services the host system may comprise additional functionality and or additional components to facilitate general banking services including for example deposit transactions withdrawal transactions electronic bill payment transactions balance inquiries fund transfers etc.

According to various embodiments the branch devices and or user devices may comprise one or more transition mechanisms. The transition mechanisms may allow a user to access the user interface at a branch device and then later re access the interface either via another branch device or via a user device without losing information originally entered at the first branch device . This functionality may allow the interface as described below to serve as a marketing tool. For example users investment clients or potential investment clients may be drawn to the branch devices at public locations. The users may enter for example basic high level information about themselves into one or more investment related tools provided through the user interface . The interface via the branch devices may be configured to provide the user with basic financial services sufficient to entice the user to re access the interface later for example via another branch device or a user device e.g. in a more private setting . When re accessing the interface the user may build on the basic information previously entered by entering more detailed information. This may enable the interface to provide additional information and results through the investment related tools. The interface for example as provided through the user devices may provide functionality allowing users to receive more detailed financial advice speak directly to a financial advisor execute investment transactions etc.

Various types of transition mechanisms may be used. For example all or a portion of the branch devices may comprise a card reader similar to the card reader at an automated teller machine ATM . Of course in embodiments where a branch device is or includes an ATM it may not be necessary to include an additional card reader. Users who are existing customers of the financial institution may access the user interface at a branch device by providing their ATM card to the reader e.g. by depositing the card swiping the card etc. . The branch device may be in communication with the host system . Accordingly the host system may store some or all of the information entered by the user through the user interface e.g. at one or more of databases . When the user logs in and authenticates him or herself to the user interface via a user device or using their ATM card at another branch device the host system may recall information stored by the user via the first branch device .

While the ATM card mechanism described above may be most useful for users who are already customers of the financial institution in some capacity it will be appreciated that other transition mechanisms may be used in addition to or instead of the ATM card mechanism in order to facilitate users who are not pre existing customers of the financial institution. For example according to one mechanism the branch device may comprise a card reader with the capability to scan a non ATM identification card such as for example a drivers license or a credit card. The host system may then store information entered by the user via the branch device in a manner associated with the scanned drivers license or credit card. When the user later re accesses the user interface e.g. via a user device the user may re scan and or enter information about the drivers license or credit card used. This may allow the host system to retrieve the user s previously entered information.

In addition to or instead of the card reader mechanisms described above certain embodiments of the user interface may be configured to prompt the user for an e mail address or other identifying information e.g. a name an address user name etc. . Information entered by the user may be stored at the host system in association with the identifying information. When the user re accesses the user interface e.g. via a user device the host system may prompt the user for the identifying information entered at the branch device and may retrieve the associated stored information.

According to yet another embodiment in addition to or instead of any of the transition mechanisms described above the branch devices may provide users with a card paper or other generated medium comprising a human or computer readable code that may be used to retrieve the information entered by the user at the branch device . When the user accesses the user interface via the branch device the host system may be configured to store received information in association with the code. For example information received and or generated from a user session with a branch device may be stored at one of the databases and indexed in a searchable manner by the code. At the conclusion of the user session with the user interface the branch device may generate e.g. via printer a medium comprising the code in human and or computer readable form.

The computer readable representation of the code may be any representation readable by a computer. For example the computer readable representation may comprise a bar code or some other type of visual code. The example representation shown in comprises a grid where each location on the grid may have one of multiple visual states. illustrates one embodiment of a grid corresponding to the computer readable code representation . The grid may comprise a plurality of elements. Each element may be identified by one of a plurality of rows and one of a plurality of columns . Each element may take one of a discrete number of visual states e.g. colors with each discrete state corresponding to a value. According to various embodiments the number of potential values of the code representable by the representation may be equal to the total number of discrete visual states raised to the power of the number of elements. For example if there are sixteen elements and three possible element colors the total number of possible combinations may be 3 or 4.3 10. According to various embodiments a user device may comprise a camera or other image capturing device for capturing an image of the computer readable representation . The user device may decode the resulting image and derive the code. The code may then be provided to the host system which may return data previously entered by the user for example at a branch device .

A user may access the interface via the entry point . For example at the entry point the host system or other component may authenticate the user. In certain embodiments the host system may also determine which features and or pages of the interface are available to the user based on authentication performed at the entry point . From the entry point the example interface shown in comprises three sections an Overview section an Investing section and a Planning section .

In the Summary tab is selected causing the Summary screen to be displayed. As illustrated the Summary screen may comprise an account summary field . The account summary field may be applicable to users who also utilize the financial institution implementing the host system for general banking services. For example the account summary field may list the user s balances in various general banking accounts such as for example checking accounts savings accounts certificates of deposit etc. An Investing field may provide a summary of the user s current investments with the financial institution. For example the Investing field may provide information relating to investment transactions entered and or managed via the Investing section described herein. A Planning field may provide a summary of an investment related tool provided by the user interface for retirement planning that may include for example one or a combination of the various retirement lifestyle planning tools described herein. A Notebook field may provide a summary of a notebook investment related tool provided to the user via the interface and described in more detail below in conjunction with the Notebook screen . The embodiment of the summary screen shown in may also comprise a Key Questions field . The host system may populate the Key Questions field with investment related questions. The user may select questions from the Key Questions field to view answers that may be helpful for investing. Also for example an Ask an Investment Guide field may be provided to allow the user to engage in live chats with investment advisors of the financial institution. The advisors for example may access the host system and thus the interface via one or more advisor devices . It will be appreciated that the Notebook field the Key Questions field and or the Notebook field may appear in various screens throughout the interface as illustrated.

Figure illustrates one embodiment of the Investing section of the interface with an Invest screen displayed e.g. via tab . The Invest screen may provide functionality allowing the user to purchase one or more investment products. For example the Invest screen may be configured to receive purchase orders or sale orders for particular investment products. The host system may execute such orders for example utilizing the transaction server . A Recently Viewed field may display investment products that were recently viewed by the user for example via the Compare screen and or the Browse screen . Selecting an investment product from the Recently Viewed field may cause the investment product to be displayed at an Investment Purchase field . At the Investment Purchase field the user may elect to make a single investment purchase of the selected investment product and or an ongoing periodic purchase. A Contact Your Advisor field may allow a user to contact their advisor prior to making a purchase. For example the field when selected may allow the user to schedule an appointment with the advisor initiate a telephone call with the advisor and or conduct a live chat with the advisor e.g. via an advisor device .

A Planned Life Events field may list life events provided by the user. Each life event may represent a planned expense or income such as for example the purchase of a car a child s education an expected inheritance etc. Selecting the Edit button may allow the user to change and or enter additional life events. For example illustrates one embodiment of the Future Financial View screen showing a Planned Life Events window . Via the Planned Life Events window the user may add new life events and or modify existing life events. Information received regarding life events may include for example the frequency of the expense and or income the amount of the expense and or income and the timing of the expense and or income.

Referring back to a graphical display field may show the output of the future financial view including the life events. For example the field may comprise a chart of assets over time. A Goal Line may indicate the required level of assets necessary in order to meet the user s retirement lifestyle and planned life events. An area graph may indicate the user s actual and projected level of assets. An example life event is indicated by line while an example retirement phase divider is indicated by line . The relationship between the Goal Line and the area graph may indicate whether the users assets match their retirement and life event goals. The screen may also comprise an investments field which may illustrate representations of investment products owned by the user that may for example be arranged according to the groups illustrated in . A Recommendations field may list recommendations to the user for improving their financial position. For example the Recommendations field may comprise recommendations generated by the host system automatically based on the user s currently entered investment information such as for example income investments retirement lifestyle etc. Also for example the Recommendations field may comprise recommendations entered manually by an advisor for example via an advisor device .

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer system host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

In general it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that various embodiments described herein or components or parts thereof may be implemented in many different embodiments of software firmware and or hardware or modules thereof. The software code or specialized control hardware used to implement some of the present embodiments is not limiting of the present invention. For example the embodiments described herein may be implemented in computer software using any suitable computer programming language such as .NET SQL MySQL or HTML using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. Programming languages for computer software and other computer implemented instructions may be translated into machine language by a compiler or an assembler before execution and or may be translated directly at run time by an interpreter. Examples of assembly languages include ARM MIPS and x86 examples of high level languages include Ada BASIC C C C COBOL Fortran Java Lisp Pascal Object Pascal and examples of scripting languages include Bourne script JavaScript Python Ruby PHP and Perl. Such software may be stored on any type of suitable computer readable medium or media such as for example a magnetic or optical storage medium. Thus the operation and behavior of the embodiments are described without specific reference to the actual software code or specialized hardware components. The absence of such specific references is feasible because it is clearly understood that artisans of ordinary skill would be able to design software and control hardware to implement the embodiments of the present invention based on the description herein with only a reasonable effort and without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

The computer network may be characterized based on functional relationships among the elements or components of the network such as active networking client server or peer to peer functional architecture. The computer network may be classified according to network topology such as bus network star network ring network mesh network star bus network or hierarchical topology network for example. The computer network may also be classified based on the method employed for data communication such as digital and analog networks.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may employ internetworking for connecting two or more distinct electronic computer networks or network segments through a common routing technology. The type of internetwork employed may depend on administration and or participation in the internetwork. Non limiting examples of internetworks include intranet extranet and Internet. Intranets and extranets may or may not have connections to the Internet. If connected to the Internet the intranet or extranet may be protected with appropriate authentication technology or other security measures. As applied herein an intranet can be a group of networks which employ Internet Protocol web browsers and or file transfer applications under common control by an administrative entity. Such an administrative entity could restrict access to the intranet to only authorized users for example or another internal network of an organization or commercial entity. As applied herein an extranet may include a network or internetwork generally limited to a primary organization or entity but which also has limited connections to the networks of one or more other trusted organizations or entities e.g. customers of an entity may be given access an intranet of the entity thereby creating an extranet .

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

In various embodiments computers and computer systems described herein may have the following main components arithmetic and logic unit ALU control unit memory and input and output devices I O devices . These components can be interconnected by busses often comprising groups of wires or cables. The control unit ALU registers and basic I O and often other hardware closely linked with these sections can be collectively considered a central processing unit CPU for the computer system. The CPU may be constructed on a single integrated circuit or microprocessor.

The control unit control system or central controller directs the various components of a computer system. The control system decodes each instruction in a computer program and turns it into a series of control signals that operate other components of the computer system. To enhance performance or efficiency of operation the control system may alter the order of instructions. One component of the control unit is the program counter a memory register that tracks the location in memory from which the next instruction is to be read.

The ALU is capable of performing arithmetic and logic operations. The set of arithmetic operations that a particular ALU supports may be limited to adding and subtracting or might include multiplying or dividing trigonometry functions sine cosine etc. and square roots. Some may be programmed to operate on whole numbers integers while others use floating point to represent real numbers for example. An ALU may also compare numbers and return Boolean truth values e.g. true or false . Superscalar computers may contain multiple ALUs to facilitate processing multiple instructions at the same time. For example graphics processors and computers with SIMD and MIMD features often possess ALUs that can perform arithmetic operations on vectors and matrices. Certain computer systems may include one or more RAM cache memories configured to move more frequently needed data into the cache automatically.

Examples of peripherals that may be used in connection with certain embodiments of the invention include input output devices such as keyboards mice screen displays monitors printers hard disk drives floppy disk drives joysticks and image scanners.

Embodiments of the methods and systems described herein may divide functions between separate CPUs creating a multiprocessing configuration. For example multiprocessor and multi core multiple CPUs on a single integrated circuit computer systems with co processing capabilities may be employed. Also multitasking may be employed as a computer processing technique to handle simultaneous execution of multiple computer programs.

In various embodiments the computer devices described herein e.g. the host system the branch devices the user devices the advisor devices etc. may be configured and or programmed to include one or more of the above described electronic computer based elements and components. In addition these elements and components may be particularly configured to execute the various rules algorithms programs processes and method steps described herein.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

