---

title: Systems and methods for generating sitelets using information assets
abstract: A definition of an information category a user wishes to publish to the Internet is received from a user. At least one information asset comprising a link to an information data object is received and assigned to the information category. Sitelet generation parameters are received from the user, including a sitelet category comprising the information category, and optionally, other sitelet generation parameters such as data feed types and additional information categories. A sitelet is then generated using the sitelet category and any other supplied sitelet generation parameters. The sitelet comprises a data feed of a first data feed type comprising a representation of the information assets assigned to the sitelet category and any additional information categories. The data feed type can be in any standard format, such as RSS or ATOM, or any custom format, such as iFrame HTML, XML or JSON. If the user specifies more than one data feed type, sitelets are generated for each data feed type.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08631316&OS=08631316&RS=08631316
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08631316
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate in general to systems that publish information over the Internet and more particularly systems that publish data feeds over the Internet.

The Internet provides a vehicle for individuals corporations and other types of organizations to publish information that may be of interest to a wide audience. For example 

One method of publishing such information to the Internet is via sitelets. As the term is used herein sitelets are data feeds that can utilize either industry standard formats such as RSS ATOM or non standard custom formats such as for example iFramed HTML XML or JSON.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

The present disclosure relates to systems and methods that enable individuals corporations and other types of organizations to publish information to the Internet via sitelets.

In one embodiment a sitelet service provider provides sitelet services to enable corporations to publish information assets over the Internet in the form of sitelets directed to for example other corporations individual consumers and or feed aggregation services . In one embodiment the sitelet service provider has one or more servers and databases that support sitelet development and publication services. In one embodiment the sitelet servers provide a user interface accessible over the Internet to enable users to define and upload individual information assets define information categories for information assets and categories and define sitelets using information categories. In one embodiment the sitelet servers further provide automated processing to generate and publish sitelets using such sitelet definitions and information assets.

It should be understood that the above configuration is purely exemplary and that other configurations are possible. For example the sitelet servers and sitelet server databases could be owned and controlled by a corporation .

In one embodiment information assets and are each assigned to one or more information categories. For example in the illustrated embodiment assets and are assigned to information category A and assets and are assigned to information category B and asset is additionally assigned to information category D. An information category need not have any information assets assigned to it as shown for example for category C . Note that the categorization of information assets in the information model may be different from the categorization of such assets in corporate information systems. For example a restaurant may organize its menu as Breakfast Brunch Lunch Dinner Appetizers Chefs Picks Seafood and so forth but may create categories for publishing such as Weekday menu Weekend specials Christmas feast. 

In one embodiment sitelets and are each assigned to a single information category. For example in the illustrated embodiment sitelet 1 is assigned to information category A and sitelet 2 is assigned to information category C . An information category need not have any sitelets assigned to it as shown for example for categories B and D . By implication when a sitelet is assigned to an information category all information assets assigned to that information category are incorporated into the sitelet. Thus for example in the case of sitelet 1 information assets and are assigned to information category A and are thus incorporated into sitelet 1.

In one embodiment additional information categories may be assigned to a sitelet for example information category B is assigned to sitelet 1 and sitelet 2 . In one embodiment when a category is assigned to a sitelet all information assets assigned to that information category are incorporated into the sitelet. Thus sitelets 1 and 2 incorporate information assets and .

In one embodiment where a sitelet is assigned more than one additional category the sitelet can include category selection criteria. In the illustrated example sitelet 2 includes category selection criteria . In one embodiment category selection criteria can be used to specify that assets included in the sitelet appear in some combination of the list of additional categories assigned to a sitelet. For example sitelet 2 is assigned to information category C and is assigned additional categories of information categories B and D . In one embodiment if the category selection criteria is ANY information assets in any of additional categories are assigned to the sitelet. In this case information asset c assigned to information category B and information asset d assigned to information category B and D are assigned to the sitelet. In one embodiment if the category selection criteria is ALL only information assets in all of the additional categories are assigned to the sitelet. In this case only information asset d assigned to both information category B and D is assigned to the sitelet.

While the illustrated embodiment shows a limited number of categories information assets and sitelets it should be understood that the information model can support any number of such entities.

In block of a user sets up one or more information categories. illustrates one embodiment of a user interface that allows a user to delete and add categories. In one embodiment an information category is a free form text string that describes a category of information such as for example Weekday menu. The user will typically choose categories that are relevant to the user s information assets and the feeds to be published. Note that in the illustrated embodiment the user interface displays the name of the corporation for which the categories are being created. In one embodiment if the sitelet services are provided by a third party such as shown in the sitelet service can provide a secure login not shown to allow the user to log into the sitelet service and identify his or her corporate affiliation.

In block of the user then defines a sitelet using one or more of the information categories set up in block . illustrates one embodiment of a user interface that enables the user to set up a sitelet. In one embodiment the sitelet service automatically assigns an ID to the sitelet and creates a URL to access the sitelet . In one embodiment the user interface enables a user to assign a main category to the sitelet. The sitelet service automatically includes all unexpired information assets assigned to this information category if any in the sitelet when the sitelet is generated. In one embodiment the user interface enables a user to assign an editor a title and a description to the sitelet. In one embodiment the user interface enables the user to assign a optional description and an image to the sitelet that identifies the feed .

In one embodiment the user interface enables more complex asset selection criteria for assets in multiple categories. In one embodiment category selection criteria enables the user to select up to 3 additional categories for the sitelet although it is understood that in other embodiments a sitelet could be assigned any number of categories. In one embodiment additional category selection criteria enable a user to instruct the sitelet service to include information assets belonging to all of a set of categories or any of a set of categories in the sitelet. In one embodiment additional category selection criteria allow the user to include more complex asset selection criteria by adding logical operators such as AND OR NOT IN SET EQUAL ALL NONE not shown . For example a restaurant may define a sitelet for Chefs Dinner Special to include menu items that belong to Chefs Special AND Dinner categories.

In one embodiment the user interface enables a user to instruct the sitelet service to publish information assets having active dates within a specific date range publication date and or expiration date . For example a Holiday Coupons sitelet may select information assets whose published date and expiry date fall in the month of November Nov. 1 2010 and December Dec. 31 2010 . In one embodiment the user interface additionally allows the user to specify the sort order of information assets in the sitelet and numbering of the assets in the sitelet not shown .

In one embodiment the user interface enables the user to select one or more formats and for sitelet publication. Such formats could include standard publication formats for example RSS 1.0 RSS 2.0 and ATOM standard formats. Such formats could include non standard publication formats such as iFramed HTML JSON and or XML. In one embodiment the user interface enables the user to specify formatting for non standard feeds for example by uploading for example XSL style sheets for iFramed HTML JSON or XML feeds.

In one embodiment if the user does not choose a publication format a default publication format is selected by the sitelet service e.g. RSS 2.0 . In one embodiment if the user chooses multiple formats the sitelet service generates a sitelet for each format and provides a unique URL for each. For example if the user selects all of the format types in the illustrated embodiment the sitelet service generates the following URLs 

It should be understood that the formats shown on the user interface are illustrative and not limiting and that in other embodiments the system could support any other type of publication formats now known or later to be developed.

In block of information assets are then added to one or more of the information categories published by the sitelet i.e. the main sitelet category and any additional categories . illustrates one embodiment of a user interface that allows a user to define assets. In one embodiment the sitelet service automatically assigns an asset ID to the asset. In one embodiment a main information category is assigned to the asset. In one embodiment the user interface enables the user to define a title for the asset provide a description for the asset and optionally provide a URL to related media.

In one embodiment the user interface enables the user to provide an external link to a source file for the information asset. In one embodiment the sitelet service uses the link to upload a source file for the asset from a user s computer system. In one embodiment such a source file is uploaded when the sitelet is generated. In one embodiment the source file is uploaded when the asset is defined. In one embodiment the user interface enables the user to assign the asset to multiple information categories . For example in the illustrated embodiment the user can assign the asset to a maximum of 4 categories. In one embodiment the user interface enables a user to specify that an asset should be published on or after a specific date and will expire on a specific date .

In one embodiment the user can use the user interface to update as well as add information assets. In one embodiment the system can additionally accept information asset additions and updates via automated file uploads.

In block of in one embodiment the system determines if the sitelet definition specifies that data feeds generated using the sitelet definition are in standard format or custom format. If the sitelet definition specifies standard formats Yes the system generates the sitelet in one or more standard formats e.g. RSS and or ATOM format as shown in block of . If the sitelet definition specifies non standard formats No the system generates the sitelet in one or more non standard formats e.g. iFramed HTML JSON and or XML using XSL style sheets as shown in block of . In one embodiment the system can generate a sitelet in both standard and non standard formats. In one embodiment the system selects information assets using the sitelet definition and generates sitelets to include a representation of the information data objects linked to such information assets. illustrates two examples of generated sitelets and . In one embodiment if the sitelet is generated using standard feeds such as RSS or ATOM feeds the sitelet service can publish such feeds to feed aggregation services.

In the data processing system includes an inter connect e.g. bus and system core logic which interconnects a microprocessor s and memory . The microprocessor is coupled to cache memory in the example of .

The inter connect interconnects the microprocessor s and the memory together and also interconnects them to a display controller and display device and to peripheral devices such as input output I O devices through an input output controller s . Typical I O devices include mice keyboards modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art.

The inter connect may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O controller includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

The memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory and non volatile memory such as hard drive flash memory etc.

Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be RAM.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In one embodiment the sitelet servers of are implemented using one or more data processing systems as illustrated in . In some embodiments one or more servers of the system illustrated in are replaced with the service of a peer to peer network or a cloud configuration of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing systems. The peer to peer network or cloud based server system can be collectively viewed as a server data processing system.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented via the microprocessor s and or the memory . For example the functionalities described above can be partially implemented via hardware logic in the microprocessor s and partially using the instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the microprocessor s without additional instructions stored in the memory . Some embodiments are implemented using the instructions stored in the memory for execution by one or more general purpose microprocessor s . Thus the disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of hardware and or software.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system middleware service delivery platform SDK Software Development Kit component web services or other specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community as an API Application Programming Interface . The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer which when read and executed by one or more processors in the computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media and optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs among others.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides e.g. stores information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

