---

title: Shopping assistant
abstract: Various embodiments are disclosed herein that relate to the dynamic calculation and presentation of efficient travel routes for in-person shoppers. For example, an adaptive shopping server system is configured to generate, for display on a shopping client device, an efficient travel route to a location of one or more user-requested merchandise items, the efficient travel route being advantageously distinct relative to other potential travel routes in consideration of a route efficiency selection criterion received from the shopping client device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150741&OS=08150741&RS=08150741
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08150741
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100315
---
Neighborhood shopping districts shopping malls and stores may retail competing goods at different locations within the district mall or store. In some scenarios in person shoppers may compare features and or prices of competing goods before making a purchase. In such scenarios shoppers may visit more than one retail location prior to making a purchase. It may be difficult for busy shoppers to locate a prospective purchase travel to a retail location and make comparisons in a given amount of time.

Accordingly various embodiments are disclosed herein that relate to the dynamic calculation and presentation of efficient travel routes for in person shoppers. For example an adaptive shopping server system is configured to generate for display on a shopping client device an efficient travel route to a location of one or more user requested merchandise items the efficient travel route being advantageously distinct relative to other potential travel routes in consideration of a route efficiency selection criterion received from the shopping client device.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. Furthermore the claimed subject matter is not limited to implementations that solve any or all disadvantages noted in any part of this disclosure.

The disclosed embodiments of shopping efficiency system are directed at exposing in real time inventory information for requested merchandise items facility information for requested merchandise locations and efficient travel routes to those requested merchandise locations. Such information may be provided by one or more participating merchants and or merchant locations and stored in shopping database for exposure to shopping client device via network and shopping server system .

Some embodiments of shopping efficiency system may utilize a user configured route efficiency selection criterion. The route efficiency selection criterion may be used as a key for filtering the facility and inventory information when calculating the efficient travel route. In some embodiments the route efficiency selection criterion may include one or more selection parameters. The selection parameters may comprise a time parameter a distance parameter a cost parameter etc.

For example in a first scenario a shopper in a hurry may want the efficient travel route prioritized on a time basis as indicated by a time parameter. Thus in a scenario where a requested DVD movie is available at locations B and D if customer in line wait times at location D are longer than customer in line wait times at location B a potential travel route including a stop at location B may be prioritized over a route including a stop at location D.

In a second scenario a shopper on a budget may want the efficient travel route prioritized on a cost basis. Thus in a scenario where a requested DVD movie is available at locations B and D if the DVD movie is less expensive at location B than at location D a potential travel route including a stop at location B may be prioritized over a route including a stop at location D.

In a third scenario a shopper may want to reduce a distance traveled while shopping. Thus consider a scenario where a requested DVD movie is available at locations B and D. In this scenario Route A originating at current location and including a stop at location B is depicted as a longer potential travel route in while route B originating at current location and including a stop at location D is depicted as a shorter potential travel route. Thus route B may be prioritized over route A in this scenario.

Thus various embodiments of shopping efficiency system are configured to provision shopping database with facility and inventory information for one or more merchandise locations. Shopping server system is configured to receive a request for a requested merchandise item from shopping client device to calculate the efficient travel route originating at a current location of shopping client device and including a stop at a selected requested merchandise location identified within shopping database from one of a plurality of possible merchandise locations having the requested merchandise item and to send the efficient travel route to shopping client device for display.

For illustrative purposes method may be divided into three phases. In a first phase a shopping server system is configured to provision a shopping database with facility and inventory information for one or more merchandise locations. In a second phase the shopping server system is configured to receive from the shopping client device a request for a merchandise item. In a third phase the shopping server system is configured to calculate an efficient travel route and send it to the shopping client device for display. The details of each phase are described in detail below though it will be appreciated that tasks may be organized into other suitable phases and other suitable orders of tasks may be employed in other embodiments.

At step method comprises at the shopping server system provisioning the shopping database with the facility and inventory information for one or more merchandise locations. Inventory information may include any suitable information about merchandise in a participating merchant s inventory. In some embodiments the inventory information may include an identity of a merchandise item which may be determined in some embodiments from a universal product code UPC associated with the item. Similarly some embodiments of inventory information may include a price for the merchandise item a location for the merchandise item within a merchant s showroom or stockroom a quantity of a particular merchandise item in stock etc. Such example inventory information may be provided in some embodiments via an interface with a participating merchant s internal stock keeping system or via interface with a suitable point of sale data aggregator. Thus in one example three participating stores A B and C may upload information about price location and availability for a DVD title stocked at three merchandise locations B C and D to the shopping database.

Facility information is configured to include any suitable information about a facility where the merchandise may be located. In some embodiments the facility information may include the locations of one or more infrastructure features e.g. parking lots stairs elevators restrooms etc. geographic points of interest e.g. food courts meeting places transit stops etc. and the like. Further the facility information may include path information such as mall or neighborhood maps including path segments for those maps as well as metadata for the path information such as average travel times for a path segment crowd densities along a path segment etc. Further still the facility information may include data about the infrastructure features e.g. parking availability within the parking lots whether an elevator is closed for repair etc. . Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the facility information may include information about a merchant s showroom e.g. how many check stands are open how long customers wait in line at those check stands etc. .

It will be appreciated that the facility and inventory information may be monitored aggregated and tracked by any suitable method and that various embodiments of method may employ for example radio frequency identification RFID tags sensors point of sale data aggregators etc. to generate the information dynamically for real time provisioning of the shopping database.

In some embodiments the shopping database may be provisioned with facility and inventory information pushed to the shopping database by one or more participating merchants and or merchant facilities. For example in a first scenario a shopping mall may send to the shopping database a number of available parking spots at shopping mall and a location for each available spot as the spots are occupied or vacated. In a second scenario one or more participating stores may upload to shopping database on a continuing basis customer in line wait times for a check stand derived from transaction frequency measurements and or frequency of identification of an RFID tag attached to the merchandise being checked out at the check stand.

Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the shopping database may be configured to poll participating merchants and merchant facilities for updated facility and inventory information pulling the facility and inventory information into the shopping database. Thus in one scenario shopping database may request inventory figures from one or more participating stores at preset intervals so that shopping database has current inventory information for that merchant.

Continuing with method comprises at receiving a request for a first merchandise item from the shopping client device. For example schematically shows an embodiment of shopping client device having a user interface . User interface includes a merchandise request interface and a selection parameter interface . Merchandise request interface is configured to receive user input text descriptions of one or more requested merchandise items. For example as depicted in a shopper has input DVD MOVIE into merchandise request interface which will be sent to shopping server system via message transmitted via network .

In some embodiments step of method may include at receiving a route efficiency selection criterion from the shopping client device. The route efficiency selection criterion may be a user specified criterion used by the shopping server system as a key for filtering facility and inventory information when calculating the efficient travel route. In some embodiments the route efficiency selection criterion may include a selection parameter. Example selection parameters may include a time parameter a distance parameter a cost parameter etc. A selection parameter may be specified by a user via the shopping client device.

In the example depicted in a shopper has specified a time selection parameter via selection parameter interface . The selected parameter may be transmitted to shopping server system . Example scenarios employing various embodiments of the route efficiency selection criterion and selection parameters are described in detail below with respect to .

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments a plurality of selection parameters may be included in route efficiency selection criterion the plurality of selection parameters including at least two of a time parameter distance parameter or cost parameter. Accordingly in one example a user may choose to prioritize time and cost and may choose to deprioritize distance when specifying a plurality of selection parameters. Further it will be appreciated that in some embodiments a single selection parameter may be specified and that in some embodiments a user configured selection parameter may be employed. For example a user may create and configure selection parameters specified to prioritize kid friendly travel routes disabled friendly travel routes etc.

Continuing with in some embodiments step may include at receiving a current location of the shopping client device from the shopping client device. For example shopping client device may include current location in a request for a requested merchandise item sent to shopping server system . The current location may be determined in any suitable manner. For example in some embodiments global positioning system GPS or other device tracking architecture included in the shopping client device may provide current location information. Alternatively or additionally in some embodiments a user may supply current location information via entry into user interface .

At step method allows a user to provide additional merchandise requests. When additional merchandise requests are provided the method returns to step if no additional merchandise requests are provided the method continues to step . Thus it will be appreciated that a second requested merchandise item a third requested merchandise item etc. may optionally be received from the shopping client device in some scenarios. It will be appreciated that identification of merchandise locations for a requested merchandise item may be performed for each requested merchandise item. Thus if a user requests a second third etc. merchandise item the shopping server system may be configured to identify merchandise locations for the second third etc. requested merchandise items and provide an efficient travel route with stops for all requested merchandise items.

At step method includes identifying within the shopping database a first merchandise location for the first merchandise item. In some embodiments the shopping server system may be configured to look up from a table of location information included in the facility and inventory information of the shopping database identification and location information for the requested merchandise item. For example if a shopper inputs a DVD title into the shopping client device the shopping server system may look up corresponding merchandise location information. schematically illustrates a portion of an example shopping database including location information for DVD and BLU RAY movie titles for example location B has one copy of a requested movie title in DVD format and one copy of the movie title in BLU RAY format. Additionally or alternatively some embodiments may employ one or more suitable search techniques or search engines to identify the merchandise location information for the requested merchandise items. Further it will be appreciated that in some embodiments a store may have a plurality of possible merchandise locations for the requested merchandise item. For example locations A and B of store A may correspond respectively to a retail showroom and an inventory closeout showroom of store A wherein each location may contain a copy of a requested DVD title.

In some embodiments the shopping server system may be configured to verify that two or more merchandise items at different merchandise locations are the same. For example the shopping server system may discriminate between a theatrical release version of DVD movie available at one location and a director s cut version of the same title available at another location. Further in some embodiments the shopping client device may be configured to receive user specification of what constitutes an acceptably comparable merchandise item. For example depicts a portion of shopping database and a map for a neighborhood including one or more participating stores and shopping mall that participate in shopping efficiency system and provide facility and inventory information to shopping database . In one scenario user specification that both DVD and BLU RAY formats for a movie title are acceptable may result in the shopping server system identifying locations A B C and D as locations having one or both formats of the movie title. In a second scenario user specification that the DVD format alone is acceptable may result in the shopping server identifying locations B C and D as having DVD versions.

In some embodiments step may include at identifying within the shopping database a recommended merchandise location for a recommended merchandise item identified within the shopping database. A recommended merchandise item is a merchandise item recommended to a user of the shopping client device based on other merchandise items the user has requested and or has purchased. In some embodiments once a recommended merchandise item is identified the recommended merchandise location identification may proceed similarly to the above described identification of the requested merchandise location.

The recommended merchandise item may in some embodiments be identified by comparison of merchandise items in the shopping database to online shopping data such as a history or a wish list associated with an online shopping database. Thus in one scenario a user of the shopping client device may elect to receive in person purchase recommendations based on the user s online shopping history. In some embodiments online shopping data may be obtained from an online shopping database or a social network database . For example a shopper s friend may provide gift ideas via social network database so that the in person shopper may find gifts for the friend that the friend will like.

Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments the recommended merchandise item may represent a merchandise item automatically identified and recommended to a user based on correlations between the requested merchandise item and the recommended merchandise item formed from aggregated information collected by the shopping efficiency system. For example in a first scenario the shopping server system may determine that a sale of a DVD player correlates with a sale of a DVD movie from the inventory information included in the shopping database. In a second scenario the shopping server system may determine that a visit to location A or C where DVD players are sold correlates with a visit to location B or D where DVD movies are sold. Thus in an example where a DVD player is requested a DVD movie may be recommended and a list of possible merchandise locations having DVD movies may be identified.

In some embodiments the shopping server system may be configured to identify one or more recommended merchandise items based on a comparison of the current location of the shopping client device to locations for the recommended merchandise items. For example the shopping server system may recommend a DVD movie about World War II at location D to a user at current location based on the user s online purchases of a number of books about World War II and based on the user s proximity to location D.

Continuing with method includes at calculating an efficient travel route including a stop at the first requested merchandise location using the facility and inventory information within the shopping database and at sending the efficient travel route to the shopping client device for display on the shopping client device. Calculation of the efficient travel route may be performed in some embodiments by one or more algorithms configured to build route permutations between the merchandise locations for each of the requested merchandise items. For example shows three potential travel routes Route A Route B and Route C to locations having a requested DVD movie. Each potential travel route originates at current location and extends to a merchandise location having the requested title. Further in some embodiments each potential travel route may have facility and inventory information corresponding to the merchandise location and or the requested merchandise item associated therewith. For example Route A may include path information for the travel route customer in line waiting times for a check stand of location B and price information for the title at location B associated with the travel route.

Thus in some embodiments step may include at using the route efficiency selection criterion as a key for filtering the facility and inventory information wherein the efficient travel route is advantageously distinct relative to other potential travel routes in consideration of the route efficiency selection criterion.

For example in a first scenario a shopper in a hurry may want the efficient travel route to prioritize on a time basis. In this scenario the route efficiency selection criterion may include a time parameter as a selection parameter. Further the route efficiency selection criterion may comprise an instruction to filter potential travel routes according to a calculation of a time to obtain the requested merchandise item wherein a potential travel route having a shorter total time may be prioritized over a potential travel route having a longer total time. Thus in the example shown in a requested DVD movie is available at locations B C and D. Based on the facility information stored in shopping database it is calculated that Route A is a 10 minute walk from current location that Route B is a 2 minute walk from current location and that Route C is a 5 minute walk from current location . Thus Route B may be prioritized over Route C and Route C may be prioritized over a Route A.

Further in some embodiments estimates of customer in line wait times for a plurality of possible merchandise locations having the requested merchandise item may be included in the calculation of the time to obtain requested merchandise item. Thus continuing with the example shown in the 5 minute customer in line wait at location B and the 15 minute customer in line wait at location D may be included in the calculation of the overall route time for each potential travel route. Accordingly Route C may be prioritized over Route A and Route A may be prioritized over Route B. Thus in this scenario Route C may be sent to the shopping client device for display such as shown in as the time prioritized display.

In a second scenario a shopper on a budget may want the efficient travel route to prioritize on a cost basis. In this scenario the route efficiency selection criterion may include a cost parameter and may comprise an instruction to filter potential travel routes according to a calculation of a cost of requested merchandise item which may be derived from the inventory information stored in the shopping database. Thus a potential travel route including a stop at a merchandise location where the requested merchandise item has a lower cost may be prioritized over a potential travel route including a stop at a merchandise location where the requested merchandise item has a higher cost. For example consider a scenario like that shown in where a requested DVD movie is available at locations B C and D. If the DVD movie is more expensive at location C than at location D or B Route A which is a potential travel route including a stop at location B may be prioritized over Route C or Route D. Thus in this scenario Route A may be sent to the shopping client device for display such as shown in as the cost prioritized display.

In a third scenario a shopper may want to reduce a distance traveled while shopping. In this scenario the route efficiency selection criterion may comprise an instruction to filter potential travel routes according to a distance of each potential travel route wherein a shorter potential travel route may be prioritized over a longer potential travel route. For example consider a scenario like that shown in where a requested DVD movie is available at locations B C and D. Route A originating at current location and including a stop at location B is depicted as a longer potential travel route than Route B originating at current location and including a stop at location D. Thus route B may be prioritized over route A in this scenario and Route B may be sent to the shopping client device for display such as shown in as the distance prioritized display.

It will be appreciated that in some embodiments potential travel routes may be configured to include various geographic points of interest determined from the facility information of the shopping database.

In some embodiments audible signals cues or speech may be associated with one or more stops path segments or points of interest of the potential travel routes and or the efficient travel route so that a visual display of the efficient travel route may be supplemented with audio information. Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments such audio elements may be triggered based on dynamically updated location information for the shopping client device. For example in one scenario if a first requested merchandise item is located at location B and if Route A represents the efficient travel route turn by turn audio instructions for Route A may be played by the shopping client device as the shopper traverses Route A. Thus in this scenario an audio instruction for the shopper to proceed to the intersection may be followed by an audio instruction to turn right at the intersection upon arrival at the intersection as detected by geolocation architecture of the shopping client device.

Furthermore in some embodiments potential travel routes may include two or more recommended merchandise locations. For example if a first requested merchandise item is located at location A and location B and a second requested merchandise item is located at location C and location D then the following travel routes include stops that allow a shopper to purchase both the first and second requested merchandise items 1 A C 2 C A 3 A D 4 D A 5 B C 6 C B 7 B D and 8 D B . The travel route that is most aligned with a chosen route selection efficiency criterion may be sent to the shopping client device for display.

Continuing with in some embodiments step may include at step including in the efficient travel route a stop at one or more recommended merchandise locations. For example in one scenario the potential travel routes may include suggested stops at one or more recommended merchandise locations for the same recommended merchandise item located along each potential travel route. In another scenario a suggested stop at a recommended merchandise location on a first potential travel route may be for a recommended merchandise item that is different from the recommended merchandise item with a suggested stop located on a second potential travel route. For example if the shopping database determines that the user may enjoy a snack with the DVD movie Route A may include a suggested stop at a first recommended merchant location while Route B may include a suggested stop at a second recommended merchant location. Such selections may be made based on the proximity of a potential recommended merchandise location to a route between requested merchandise locations for example.

In some embodiments the efficient travel route may include a location of an empty parking stall in a vicinity of the current location of the shopping client device. For example in one scenario as the shopper approaches a merchandise location in a car the shopping server system may update the efficient travel route to include the location of an empty parking stall nearest to the current location based on parking information of the shopping database and may further update the efficient travel route as parking stalls become available or occupied.

Calculation of the potential travel routes and determination of the efficient travel route may be by any suitable algorithm. In some embodiments the algorithm may include a linear or a non linear programming objective function a heuristic objective function derived from aggregated data obtained by the shopping efficiency system etc. Further it will be understood that in some embodiments calculation of potential travel routes may be performed adaptively to respond to real time changes in retail conditions at various participating merchants.

In some embodiments a weighting factor for scaling a relative calculation importance of each of the plurality of selection parameters may be assigned to each of the plurality of selection factors. Thus in one scenario a budget and time conscious shopper may specify that potential travel route is to be prioritized on a cost basis first and on a time basis second. Accordingly a larger weighting factor may be applied to a cost function of the route calculation and a smaller weighting factor may be applied to a time function of the route calculation. It will be appreciated that in some examples the algorithm may apply weighting factors for any suitable selection parameter. For example weighting factors may be applied to calculate kid friendly travel routes disabled friendly travel routes etc.

In some embodiments calculation of the efficient travel route may include an optimization routine configured to determine for example a shortest travel route having the smallest distance travelled a cheapest travel route having stops at selected requested merchandise locations having the lowest cost requested merchandise items a fasted travel route having the lowest customer in line wait times etc. Thus in one scenario a shopper pressed for time to purchase gifts for family members may input desired book and movie titles into shopping client device for purchase on a visit to neighborhood . Because the shopper is in a hurry the shopper may select a fastest route option. Shopping server system identifies possible requested merchandise locations for each of the titles and generates potential travel routes to those locations based on shopping database . Calculation of a fastest travel route may be based on one or more weighting factors and based on customer in line wait times for each of the possible requested merchandise locations. The shopping server system then sends the fastest travel route including stops at the selected merchandise locations for each title to shopping client device for display.

In some embodiments the above described methods and processes may be tied to a computing system. As an example schematically shows an embodiment of a shopping efficiency system that may perform one or more of the above described methods and processes. The shopping efficiency system includes shopping server system and shopping client device . Shopping server system and shopping client device are configured to communicate via network . Network may be any suitable network for facilitating communications between shopping server system and shopping client device . For example in some embodiments network may comprise the Internet and shopping server system and shopping client device may use wired or wireless technology to communicate via the Internet. Network may include additional and or alternative public and or private networks in some embodiments.

Shopping server system includes a logic subsystem and a data holding subsystem . Shopping server system may be configured as any suitable server computing device and may include various suitable application programming interfaces web services and or other mechanisms configured to facilitate the provisioning of the shopping database described above. Further in some embodiments the shopping server system may be a server in a network cloud environment.

Additionally or alternatively in some embodiments shopping server system may be configured as an adaptive shopping server system. For example the adaptive shopping server system may be configured as described above in reference to to receive updates from participating merchants and merchant locations continuously or at preset intervals.

Logic subsystem of shopping server system may include one or more physical devices configured to execute one or more instructions. For example the logic subsystem may be configured to execute one or more instructions that are part of one or more programs routines objects components data structures or other logical constructs. Such instructions may be implemented to perform a task implement a data type transform the state of one or more devices or otherwise arrive at a desired result. The logic subsystem may include one or more processors that are configured to execute software instructions. Additionally or alternatively the logic subsystem may include one or more hardware or firmware logic machines configured to execute hardware or firmware instructions. The logic subsystem may optionally include individual components that are distributed throughout two or more devices which may be remotely located in some embodiments.

Data holding subsystem of shopping server system may include one or more physical non transitory devices configured to hold data and or instructions executable by the logic subsystem to implement the herein described methods and processes. When such methods and processes are implemented the state of data holding subsystem may be transformed e.g. to hold different data . Data holding subsystem may include any suitable computer readable removable media and or built in devices. Data holding subsystem may include optical memory devices semiconductor memory devices and or magnetic memory devices among others. Data holding subsystem may include devices with one or more of the following characteristics volatile nonvolatile dynamic static read write read only random access sequential access location addressable file addressable and content addressable. In some embodiments logic subsystem and data holding subsystem may be integrated into one or more common devices such as an application specific integrated circuit or a system on a chip.

Shopping client device includes logic subsystem data holding subsystem and display . Shopping client device may be configured as any suitable client computing device. For example in some embodiments shopping client device may be a mobile phone a laptop computer a personal digital assistant etc. Further in some embodiments shopping client device may include suitable geolocation architecture configured to provide a current location of shopping client device to shopping server system . Logic subsystem and data holding subsystem of shopping client device may be configured in any way described above with reference to the logic and data holding subsystems of shopping server system .

Shopping client device is configured to include display . Display may be used to present a visual representation of data held by data holding subsystem e.g. a visual representation of an efficient travel route . As the herein described methods and processes change the data held by the data holding subsystem and thus transform the state of the data holding subsystem the state of display may likewise be transformed to represent visually changes in the underlying data. Display may include one or more display devices utilizing virtually any suitable type of technology. Such display devices may be combined with logic subsystem and or data holding subsystem in a shared enclosure or such display devices may be peripheral display devices.

In some embodiments shopping client device may be configured to include suitable audio components that provide an audio capability for playing various audible signals cues and or speech associated with one or more stops path segments points of interest etc. of the efficient travel route.

It is to be understood that the configurations and or approaches described herein are exemplary in nature and that these specific embodiments or examples are not to be considered in a limiting sense because numerous variations are possible. The specific routines or methods described herein may represent one or more of any number of processing strategies. As such various acts illustrated may be performed in the sequence illustrated in other sequences in parallel or in some cases omitted. Likewise the order of the above described processes may be changed.

The subject matter of the present disclosure includes all novel and nonobvious combinations and subcombinations of the various processes systems and configurations and other features functions acts and or properties disclosed herein as well as any and all equivalents thereof.

