---

title: Visual meme tracking for social media analysis
abstract: A system and method for analyzing visual memes includes identifying visual memes associated with at least one topic in a data source. The visual memes propagated over time are tracked to extract information associated with identified visual memes. The information associated with the visual memes is analyzed to determine at least one of generation, propagation, and use of the identified memes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09552442&OS=09552442&RS=09552442
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 09552442
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101021
---
This application is related to commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 909 094 filed currently herewith and incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to video content analysis and more particularly to systems and methods for tracking duplicated video in social media and other environments.

Real world events leave a significant trace on news and social media creating buzz e.g. large amounts of activity openly accessible online. This buzz may be on almost any subject. Ease of publishing and sharing seem to outpace even the rapid progress of modern search engines collaborative tagging and content aggregation services. This leaves users seeing only small portions for their topics of interest. Buzz overload becomes a problem and is particularly prominent for linear media e.g. audio video animations where at a glance impressions are hard to get and often unreliable.

One of the long standing challenges in media analysis and applications research is to be able to capture a large amount of content for any topic and then characterize a repository accordingly. Such a system can be useful in many different domains such as brand and image monitoring event spotting trend prediction better retrieval for both videos and their creators or even better sampling storage and transmission systems.

A system and method for analyzing visual memes includes identifying visual memes associated with at least one topic in a data source. The visual memes propagated over time are tracked to extract information associated with identified visual memes. The information associated with the visual memes is analyzed to determine at least one of generation propagation and use of the identified memes.

A system in accordance with the present principles includes a processor and a memory coupled to the processor. The memory stores an analysis module configured to identify and track visual memes associated with at least one topic in a data source. The analysis module further includes a tracking module configured to collect information associated with identified visual memes as the visual memes are propagated over time and a trend determination module configured to discover trends by analyzing the information associated with the visual meme to determine at least one of generation propagation and use of the identified memes.

These and other features and advantages will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with the present principles visual memes are employed for analyzing video buzz. A meme is a cultural unit e.g. an idea value or pattern of behavior that is passed from one person to another in social settings. For video analysis in a social network in particular a visual meme is a short segment of video that gets remixed and reposted openly e.g. frequently reposted keyframes of video shots. Visual memes in social media buzz are massively duplicated visual snippets in videos and images such as a memorable video clip or a canonical photo. Making original visual content such as images and videos needs significant effort and time commitment from an author producer. Posting a video meme may be considered a deeper stamp of approval or may imply higher awareness than leaving a comment giving a high rating or sending a twitter on the same subject.

Large amounts of massively duplicated memes may lead to determinations such as how the memes are produced how many memes there are who produces the memes and what do the memes mean for their original creators and disseminators. In accordance with the present embodiments several steps are provided towards determining whether sense can be made for an event and its associated social network from the memes. A large scale content acquisition system is developed and deployed using generic text queries as a pre filter for content creation on a given topic. Then meme a.k.a. near duplicate images and video detection is performed on many videos e.g. tens of thousands of videos and more e.g. millions video shots and images. A meme can be regarded as either a visual word that expresses meaning in multimedia documents or a link between the content the meme is from and the people who created the meme.

The present embodiments can be implemented on a large scale and provide event based social video monitoring and visual content analysis. Visual memes are employed as a tool to characterize on topic video content and implement a scalable system that can extract all memes from e.g. over 1 million images in just a few hours on a single CPU. A dual model of memes for both network and collection analysis are provided. A new cross modal matching CM method is provided for annotating memes and illustrating words.

Empirical analysis may be performed on several large scale event datasets to provide insights. For example in one illustrative case between 50 70 of the videos in an event collection may not be original. Memes can be reposted within an hour or less of their appearance. In one example over 70 are duplicated in the first day and a large portion tends to resurge after a week or longer. There are apparent content originators and disseminators in a community measured by a diffusion influence index on memes. The role of transitional news media and citizen journalists vary from event to event and can also be measured quantitatively among other things.

The present embodiments may be employed for applications such as brand monitoring social buzz tracking event spotting ranking content and people by influence among others. In particularly useful embodiments two systems were constructed as a foundation of a monitoring method and an application. These included a large scale event based social video collection and monitoring system and a scalable method for extracting visual memes with high accuracy. Visual memes were modeled from two perspectives as links in people content networks and as words in multimedia collections. The visual memes or frequently reposted short video segments were employed for tracking and monitoring real world events in social media.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C python or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent the same or similar elements and initially to a system method for tracking and analyzing visual memes is illustratively shown. In this example image and video memes are represented in a static keyframe format or dynamic video clip format. Visual memes are frequently re posted images or video segments in a variety of appearances including resolutions formats background caption overlays etc. Despite lots of variations in the videos that contain the visual memes such as size coloring caption editing etc. each meme instance is semantically consistent and they often become iconic representations of the events from which they are produced.

For repositories content hosting sites and sharing web sites e.g. YouTube Metacafe etc. video content of almost every type may be provided. Monitoring all content is infeasible therefore a given topic or set of topics may be employed to narrow the field. In block constant querying of event media streams may be performed. For example global warming could be a topic to consider. Then text queries may be constructed such as e.g. global warming climate change COemission etc. and these videos are collected from a video source in block such as a repository or website e.g. YouTube Metacafe etc. . For each video entry a number of structured and semi structured metadata fields are obtained in block including the author and date on which this video was published uploaded. Many returned videos from such generic text queries may not be relevant to the topic but by identifying visual memes in block and performing analyses such as author influence scoring or other analysis in block highly relevant videos can be identified and the evolution of the topic can be tracked. In block observations and applications may be performed using the information obtained in the tracking and analysis.

In accordance with one embodiment a social network measurement study is performed using system . Random or category specific content acquisition characterizes the entire social network and observes collective behavior and content distributions. Topic specific continuous querying in block and monitoring on social streams is performed. Visual memes are employed to reveal implicit or explicit common interest among a large user group. The originators and disseminators are determined using the history of the visual memes.

The visual memes may be employed for tracking and monitoring real world events. By employing a scalable method for extracting visual memes with high accuracy trends events topics of interest etc. can be studied in an objective way. In accordance with the present principles formal models have been developed for leveraging visual meme networks and multi modal topics. Identification and quantification measurements of influence of video content originators and disseminators in a community can be determined.

Referring to a volume of videos acquired according to their upload date by a system in accordance with the present principles is illustratively shown in a chart . General trends can be seen in the example topic shown. The volume and evolution of meme videos that include one or more memes may also be tracked. The volume of meme videos is very significant several hundred to more than a thousand per day and there are three prominent peaks and on the timeline covering June to August. A clear correlation between each peak can be tracked with an important event in the real world illustrated with a sample of visual memes. For example the first peak of activity occurs in mid June after a first event was announced. Another culmination point peak is reached when another event occurs. A third peak occurs about a month later for yet another event. Memes may be represented as both clusters and icons with the clusters being a group of images with various appearances that are near duplicates near dups of each other.

Referring again to in block data application programming interface API may be employed to query and extract entries e.g. 1000 or more for each query. A simple de duping may be performed against a query history using a hash string or other mechanisms. For each video shots are segmented keyframes are extracted and visual features are extracted from each keyframe in block . The selection of keyframes and visual features visual memes depends upon the accuracy desired the type of query and any other application specific properties. Also information may be extracted from the associated metadata in XML json or other formats such as author publish date view counts and free text title and descriptions with stop word removal and stemming in block .

Scalable meme detection is performed in block . Visual memes are frequently reposted video segments or images and they are quite common due to the nature of visual content. It is much harder to generate original visual content as compared to text for example. Users therefore frequently repost content by others usually with little or no intentional editing but with the intention to promote the content or to express their own views. Re posting is a much stronger endorsement than simply viewing commenting on or linking to the content. Identifying the most re posted bits of visual content can therefore be a very strong indicator of the content s interestingness more so than the content view count which can be quite non indicative of relevance. Therefore the number of times a piece of content is reposted may be employed as a way of identifying interesting content.

Since duplication occurs at the level of video shots rather than entire videos it is necessary to look for matches at the shot level. Even if the analysis is restricted to videos related to a single topic only we still may have millions of shots generated from topic monitoring over relatively short time periods. The approach of comparing every shot s keyframe to every other keyframe has a complexity of O N where N is the number of keyframes. Instead an approximate nearest neighbor search may be employed which runs roughly in O N square root over N time followed by a linear time set merge operation to compute the near duplicate equivalence classes. So potential misses are permitted but not false alarms during the frame near duplicate queries and the potential misses are compensated for by performing transitive closure on pairs of identified keyframe near duplicate matches.

In one embodiment a frame similarity metric is based on a color correlogram which captures the local spatial correlation of pairs of colors and is a second order statistic on the color distribution. The color correlogram is rotation scale and to some extent viewpoint invariant. A cross layout formulation of the correlogram may be adopted which extracts a descriptor from horizontal and vertical central image stripes emphasizing the center portion of the image and disregarding the corners. The cross formulation improves robustness with respect to text logo overlay borders crops and shifts etc. An auto correlogram is extracted in a 166 dimensional perceptually quantized hue saturation value HSV color space resulting in e.g. a 332 dimensional overall descriptor length. Prior to extracting the correlogram descriptor we normalize frames by detecting and removing borders normalizing aspect ratio performing de noising and a contrast limited histogram equalization to normalize contrast and gamma. We also remove frames with low entropy to avoid trivial duplicate matches.

Once descriptors are extracted for all keyframes they are indexed for a fast k nearest neighbor k NN lookup. Fast Library for Approximate Nearest Neighbor FLANN may be employed which automatically selects the best indexing data structure e.g. a k means tree kd tree or other methods may be employed and associated parameters for a given dataset. A maximum number of nodes m to be checked is set when doing a nearest neighbor search which bounds the query run time to O m . Running N queries against the entire set of N keyframes can be accomplished in O Nm time where values of m on the order of square root over N produce approximate k NN results that have e.g. over 0.95 precision and 2 3 orders of magnitude speed up versus an exact nearest neighbor search.

Query adaptive thresholding based on the Ldistance of correlogram features was employed to determine near duplicates. For a given query frame q and correlogram feature f we retrieve up to 50 nearest neighbors from the FLANN index and threshold the list to keep only matches within a distance of

Given the incomplete set of pairwise near duplicate matches transitive closure is performed on the set of pairwise near duplicate matches to find the equivalence classes of near duplicate sets. An efficient set union find method may be employed which runs in amortized time that is effectively O E where E is the number of pairwise edges. Near duplicate set criteria may be user selected set as a similarity score threshold etc. to be able to identify the nearest duplicate images to a subject image.

In block visual meme modeling is performed. In this illustrative example two complementary views are presented on visual memes to build models for this large scale media gist in networked social interactions. In one view memes are treated as links where videos and people are interacting entities nodes in a dynamic network. Each re posted meme image is an explicit statement of mutual awareness or a relevance statement on a mutually interested subject just like hyperlinks on the world wide web. Here visual memes behave like the RT twitter tags retweet verbatim for inferencing relationships between authors. In the other view we treat visual memes as words where videos are documents that contain the words and memes are part of a shared vocabulary that people use around the same event and that visual memes behave like words statistically. The visual meme vocabulary expresses additional concepts not captured in words text . The memes visual words and textual words jointly define the topics and trends in an event through which summarization monitoring and exploration are possible. Here meme phrases are presented as a set of streams flowing over time.

By defining notations to represent the event media stream to facilitate modeling in both views begin by using notations from the document view and then adapt the notations to represent the network view. Denote a video as a multimedia document din event collection with m 1 . . . M. Each video is authored uploaded by a user a d at time t d where a d takes its value from the set of users a r 1 . . . R. Each document dincludes a collection of words w w . . . w each of which can be textual terms from the title description comments tags wand visual terms w from the respective word and meme dictionaries and . In the networked view the nodes include distinct documents d m 1 . . . M or individual authors a r 1 . . . R and memes are treated as time sensitive edges ewith creation time t e where i j are over the dimensions of the graph.

Referring to meme graphs and influence scores for content and authors are illustratively shown see also block . Two graphs are constructed over the videos and the authors respectively. The graphs reveal the overall content structure and propose a diffusion influence measure to quantify the importance of nodes. We define the video graph G with the video documents as nodes. There is a directed edge e if documents dand dshare at least one visual meme and dprecedes din time. The presence of emerely represents a probability that dcan be influenced by d when there is no further evidence from the video collection alone whether or not this has indeed happened. We denote the number of shared visual memes as v d d . The edge weights can relate to vand the time elapsed between the posting time of the two videos denoted as t t d t d . Here we adopt two simple recipes for computing the first one Equation 1 assigns a weight proportional to the number of common memes and the second one Equation 2 further scales the weight by a power law memory factor. The power law decay is similar to known behaviors and our own content freshness study while the first model can accommodate multiple modes in t for content re mixing. 1 2 

The constant factors can be omitted without loss of generality. We use estimated from experimentation. Other factors such as the popularity index number of views rating score etc. can also be taken into account although they are also inconclusive unless we have evidence about a true source that a meme shot comes from.

The author graph H is defined with the set of distinct users as nodes and the common visual memes posted by a pair of users aand aas edges. We compute the edge weights as the aggregation of those edges in the video graph G that go between documents authored by aand a. 3 

Note that graph H is undirected and time insensitive since authors often repost memes from each other. Also we look at the accumulated interaction in time since most authors post no more than a handful of videos and there may not be enough data to estimate instantaneous activities.

In an example of video G and author H graphs generated over a dataset are illustratively shown. Note that each meme induces a complete diffusion tree in video graph G and a clique in graph H. We show all nodes videos authors that have a connection and a subset of the edges computed using a minimum spanning tree algorithm to avoid cluttering the display. We can see that there is one densely connected topic community in each graph with a number of smaller groups in the periphery. Note that the author graph H tends to have fewer isolated components since aggregating over videos from the same authors lessens the effect of meme clusters that were split apart and is more robust to incidental off topic posting from each author.

Memes tend to connect content and people that contribute to the same topic in an event and here we examine the converse outliers in both graphs. For example visual meme 052834 is shared only between two videos from two authors X and Y who only share this meme with each other.

Diffusion influence index A diffusion influence index is defined to identify the most influential content and topic hubs in a social network. This is done via computing the in and out degrees of a node i in a diffusion subgraph induced by visual meme win video graph G. The subgraph induced by wincludes all video nodes that have meme w d s.t.w d as well as the edges within this subset of nodes. Note that the subgraph edge weighting factor v is set to one since it concerns a single meme. The in degree and out degree of node i in are computed as follows 4 

I is the indicator function that takes a value of 1 when its argument is true and 0 otherwise. Time varying and node varying weights can also be easily added. Intuitively is the number of videos with meme wthat precede video d potential sources and is the number of videos that posted wafter d potential followers . The video influence index is defined as the ratio of out degree over in degree aggregated over all meme subgraphs Equation 5 and the author influence index is obtained by aggregating over all videos from author a Equation 6 .

Note that the 1 in the denominator is a smoothing factor to account for video ditself. The normalized author influence index is the un normalized counterpart divided by the number of videos this author posted which can also be interpreted as an average video influence per author.

Topics across memes and words Seeing the structures of large data collections both locally and globally is one long standing challenge. A holistic graph visualization presented above is very useful for examining local structures but is difficult to scale without an advanced interactive visualization and exploration tools. Topic models may be built on video collections over both the visual memes and available text descriptions to model global structures and to facilitate applications such as annotation and retrieval.

Topic models are useful tools for clustering and summarizing large document collections. A set of topics z 1 . . . K are learned on the multimedia corpus d m 1 . . . M using latent Dirichlet allocation LDA . LDA models each document as a mixture of topics modeled as a document dependent Dirichlet distribution each topic drawn from the resulting multi nomial and each word drawn from a topic dependent multi nomial distribution. We obtain the following quantities from the LDA model 1 The conditional distribution of word given topic for each element p w v z k . 2 The Dirichlet parameters of topics given a document which can be normalized to give expectations of topic posterior for a document circumflex over p z k d . The estimation and inference may be conducted with variational expectation maximization EM or other methods.

We derive Cross modal matching CM methods on top of LDA modeling to automatically explain the meanings of visual memes. Not all words are universally known in multimedia documents new words or acronyms e.g. H1N1 can emerge in social media. Some words and names may be relatively unknown before a certain event e.g. entekhabat election in Persian and iconic visual memes may appear without clear context of emergence. This can be formulated as a cross modal matching problem and can aim to estimate how well a textual or visual word candidate result w can explain another word query w . This is achieved by estimating the conditional probability of seeing wgiven that wis in the document i.e. p ww D where w w . We call this estimation process Cross Modal Matching CM and employ its application for content annotation and retrieval.

Referring to a derivation sketch for CMis illustratively shown and depicts co occurrence counting and CM. D K W and 1 denote matrix dimensions denotes matrix multiplication and denotes inner product. Under the context of document collection D and the topic model 

Equation 7 follows from the fact that the scaling factor p w D is a constant for a given query wand collection D Equation 8 holds since we can use an empirical sum over document collection in place of integration over all possible values of Equation 9 approximates the point posterior probability of the Dirichlet parameter as 1. This model assumes conditional independence of w wwith Dgiven as well as that of wand wgiven following from the LDA generative process.

Note that the two terms in Equation 9 are symmetric and can be simply written out below by integrating over all topics z. We use Xto denote the i j th element in matrix X is obtained by matrix multiplication.

Examining the estimation equations 7 10 we note that CMcan be interpreted as a soft co occurrence measure for w wover the entire document collection with the topic model. illustrates this connection. One baseline method is co occurrence where the score of wis obtained by counting the number of times that wis seen in the same document as w. The CMmodel on the other hand first computes a smoothed count of wover document D by weighting the document topic posterior with the rcolumn of word topic posterior . The smoothed count is then weighted by the weights of w. In a sense co occurrence counting is a special case where p w uses the counts from the subset of documents with w with weight .

It is easy to connect this interpretation with the graph view when wis a visual meme. Here document co occurrence counts over all directly connected nodes neighbors in the graph view via w and CM accumulates over an entire graph entire graph in the graph view with document and topic dependent weights. We can restrict this soft counting to only part of the graph e.g. via connected components for a cleaner result . Here CMalso connects to known network based approaches such as e.g. the known HITS algorithm.

CMhas several applications depending on the choice of wand w. Such as 1 Visual Meme annotation in context. We use visual memes as queries w and return the top entries of w sorted by p w w D . The motivation of this task for event monitoring is that the keywords are often specialized subjective semantic and non visual e.g. freedom. 2 Keyword illustration. We can illustrate a keyword e.g. H1N1 as in the flu virus with a set of most related images. We take w and yield the top entries of w sorted by p w w D . We focus on application 1 for illustrative purposes.

In block of dataset summary observation and applications are employed. Using the querying collection and extraction procedures in illustrative examples we collected more than 200K videos over 22 topics in a three month period during 2009.

Content freshness A memory experiment was conducted to evaluate the age of the returned videos for a query i.e. content freshness. This can be used to determine the extent of influence on video remixing from past entries. We ran the querying and content extraction during one single day d 2010 04 04 across a set of seven diverse topics spanning environment health economics and international politics. shows the unique video entries returned for each topic. An interval between the video s upload date and d averaged over multiple topics is employed as an age. We note that the content volume is significant for any of these topics 1800 6500 and that the age distribution is approximately a power law. Illustratively we can obtain a power law regression fit for the content volume versus age f d dt 0.0581t. The constant 0.7654 represents a YouTube memory factor that affects the temporal influence of videos for meme creation. This is used to scale graph weights as explained above e.g. Eqs. 1 and 2 .

Meme detection performance The performance of the visual near duplicate detection method described herein was evaluated. Multiple versions of near duplicate detection runs were run the union of detected near duplicates was taken and a sample of the equivalence classes was manually reviewed to explicitly mark correct and incorrect near duplicates especially near the decision boundary. In some cases manually augmentation was performed on the detected near duplicate sets by performing visual content based queries and manual thresholding of the results. Overall we collected approximately 15 000 examples of positive near duplicate pairs and another 25 000 examples of non near duplicate pairs which serves as a test set for evaluation purposes.

When measuring performance the near duplicate equivalence classes are computed as described ignoring any pairs of frames for which we do not have either positive or negative ground truth and calculating precision and recall on the remaining edges. The results are shown on for varying values of the threshold parameter . We note that the performance is generally quite high including several notable operating points on the precision recall curve. For a low false alarm run we can obtain 99.7 precision with 73.5 recall or for a more balanced run we can obtain 98.2 precision with 80.1 recall which also produces the maximum harmonic mean F score of 0.88. For the remaining experiments and datasets we use 11.5 which produces the highest recall rate of 80.7 with precision of 96.6 on this set.

Meme frequency distribution In addition to detection performance we evaluate the quality of detected memes by studying their frequency distribution and comparing the meme frequency distribution with the word frequency distribution. shows the textual word and visual meme frequencies shown in a log log scale. Performing a regression fit we obtain the following Zipf s power law distributions 

The exponent s for words in the title and description is close to that of English words 1.0 . For visual memes s 1.959 suggesting that the diversity of visual memes is less than that of words at the lower frequency end. Still validates that the visual memes form a vocabulary with a proper distribution and can be used as visual words for topic modeling jointly with the textual words. It should be understood that the relationships observation and applications described herein are for illustrative purposes to demonstrate possible data analysis for a given topic and data collection. However other observations analyses and applications may be employed in accordance with the present principles.

Meme onset and reposting interval shows the expected time interval before a new visual meme is discovered and re posted after its initial upload. The left y axis shows a number of meme videos that were first reposted in a given time interval and the right y axis shows a cumulative percentage. The statistics are computed for a topic dataset based on approximately 2300 meme videos that have at least 10 duplications by other authors. The results show that more than half of the memes are re posted within 3 hours of their initial upload and over 70 are re posted the same day. The graph of also shows a secondary peak at the granularity of a week.

Observations on meme graphs and topics In one embodiment we filter the set of memes from a detection system by removing those belonging to a single video or a single author. For a diffusion calculation we do not consider memes that occurred less than 10 times as they often tend to be pieces from larger meme clusters which are incorrectly fragmented by our near duplicate detection system. For topic modeling we threshold the meme and word frequency so that we are left with about 1500 to 3000 visual words and about 2000 to 4000 text words.

Referring to a diffusion index graph for content and authors is illustratively shown. We compute the author diffusion index according to Equation 6. We plot the total diffusion influence circumflex over and normalized index over the number of videos containing memes versus author productivity i.e. number of videos. Two distinct types of contributors may include a maven who posts only a few videos which tend to be massively remixed and reposted. A second group can be dubbed citizen buzz leaders who tend to produce a large number of videos with high total diffusion factor yet relatively low influence per video. One reason is that the contributors may be aggregating and come relatively late in the timeline. This is penalized by the influence factor which includes a response metric such as view count or comment.

Content originators and aggregators The role of traditional media versus social media and citizen journalism can vary substantially across topics. The authors diffusion score and therefore overall influence is only partially correlated to the number of videos they produce. In other words an author can become influential by producing a small number of original videos that induce many follow on memes e.g. the maven user or an author can become influential by discovering and re posting many pieces of other people s content early in the meme lifecycle. Both types of authors have an important role in the overall evolution and influence of a piece of content. We call these hypothetical author types content originators and content aggregators and we attempt to discriminate between them using an author originality index defined as the fraction of video memes first originated by a given author over the total number of video memes the author participates in originated or re posted . shows a fraction of videos originated in plotted against number of videos. As can be seen network news posts the fewest videos but may be the most influential source of information. Individuals activists and advocates seem to post more videos. is shown for illustrative purposes. Other plots and graphs are also contemplated and may be employed in accordance with the present principles.

To compute the author originality index we consider all meme clusters on a dataset. We exclude clusters without a clear originator i.e. when multiple videos including the same meme are posted within the first hour the meme is observed . This excludes some legitimate memes from the analysis but reduces noise due to incorrect meme cluster fragmentation. The remaining memes are used to tally up votes for each author in terms of how many times they were first to post a meme versus they re posted a known meme. In our example this produced a set of originators and aggregators . Author originality index may be compared against author productivity to identify content originators and content aggregator users based on this index.

Observations on topics characterization An LDA model is based on a joint vocabulary of words and memes constructed using a threshold on the term frequency in the collection. A joint vocabulary size was around 6000 and the number of topics was set to be 25 or 30 by trial and error although cross validation could be used. We use the term topic probabilities p w z to label a topic using both text words and visual memes. We adopt a term frequency inverse document frequency tf idf like re weighting scheme to come up with term score for ranking words and memes. This is to suppress very popular words and yet not overly favor rare words and memes.

Meme in context We examine the CMmodel for retrieving memes in context. Here we consider using one visual meme as the query while multi meme query can be easily accommodated and retrieve the top ranked words and memes using scores computed with Equation 7. We limit the return to at least 3 words and up to 10 memes and look at the memes in comparison with those retrieved by top co occurrence.

The temporal evolution of a meme and a topic may be determined. The meme evolution clearly points out a source video it also reveals that there are multiple waves of remixes and re postings around the same theme. The topic evolutions on the other hand segment out sub events from the broader unfolding of many themes.

A social network measurement study may include varying methods and objectives. Random or category specific content acquisition helps characterize the entire social network and observes collective behavior and content distributions. Continuous querying and monitoring on social streams is topic specific and visual memes reveal the implicit common interest among a large user group who tend to be personally aware. We also note that the originators and disseminators defined in this study can be seen as an implicit version of the well known authorities and hubs.

The use of visual memes for tracking and monitoring of real world events has been provided in accordance with the present principles. An illustrative large scale event based social video monitoring and analysis system has been described to demonstrate a scalable method for extracting visual memes with high accuracy e.g. in an example case 98 precision and 80 recall . Formal models have been developed for leveraging visual meme networks and multi modal topics. A number of observations have been extracted from several large scale event datasets. Illustratively we note that in one case between 50 70 of the videos in typical event collections are not original most videos that become memes are discovered and reposted in a matter of hours e.g. 30 in the first hour and over 70 within the first day . Meme volume correlates well to real world events and can be used as indicator of importance for events content or people. We can identify and quantitatively measure the influence of video content originators and disseminators in the community and the role of traditional news media and citizen journalists can vary dramatically from event to event.

Referring to a system method for analyzing visual memes is illustratively shown. In block visual memes are identified in a data stream of other data source library repository web site etc. . The visual memes identified are those associated with a topic or query. In block the visual memes propagated over time are tracked to extract information associated with the identified visual meme. The information may include number of views the number of posting and reposting frequency of reposting etc.

In block tracking may include performing visual feature matching including employing one or more of color correlograms local interest points thumbnail vectors or other techniques. The matching may include matching visual memes using a high dimensional indexing method such as e.g. a kd tree a k means tree a ball tree and or an approximate nearest neighbor method. In block content trends may be tracked using a multimodal topic analysis such as CM co occurrence etc. or combinations thereof. In block content distribution may be tracked using topic graphs created on visual memes. In block the information associated with the visual meme is analyzed to determine trends for the visual memes including identifying relative importance of content and relative influence of users. The relative importance may be a function of the number or frequency of the visual memes but may also consider who the poster or reposter is influence among other things. The relative influence may be based on the source and the source s posting history etc. In block an influence score may be determined for pieces of content based on meme graphs constructed on at least one of authors and content. The influence score may be determined by identifying influential users based on timing and popularity of posted memes. In block influential users may be identified based on a diffusion index on meme graphs constructed on one of authors and content.

In block the visual memes and their related information are applied to solve a problem characterize data discover a data source etc. Visual memes may be automatically tagged with words in text or other memes that were derived from one or more of graph and topic analyses. Applications for employing visual meme analysis may include applications in advertising marketing public relations intelligence monitoring security or any other field.

Referring to a system for analyzing visual memes is illustratively shown. System includes a processor a memory a user interface and a display . The memory is coupled to the processor and stores an analysis module . The analysis module is configured to identify and track visual memes associated with at least one topic in a data source . The data source may include a library data stream or streams a web site or other video repository e.g. YouTube . The analysis module includes a tracking module which is configured to collect information associated with identified visual memes as the visual memes are propagated over time. A trend determination module is configured to discover trends by analyzing the information associated with the visual meme and identify relative importance of content and relative influence of users. Trend determination module may further include any data or statistical analysis tools or applications which may be useful in analyzing visual memes.

The tracking module performs visual feature matching by employing one or more of color correlograms local interest points and thumbnail vectors and preferably includes a high dimensional indexing method for matching visual memes. The high dimensional indexing method may include one or more of a kd tree a k means tree a ball tree and an approximate nearest neighbor method. The tracking module may perform a multimodal topic analysis for tracking content trends. The tracking module tracks content distribution using topic graphs created on visual memes.

The trend determination module may compute an influence score for pieces of content based on meme graphs constructed on at least one of authors and content and may compute a diffusion index on meme graphs constructed on one of authors and content for identifying influential users. System may be employed to analyze visual memes for any number of applications including e.g. advertising marketing public relations intelligence monitoring etc.

Having described preferred embodiments of systems and methods for visual meme tracking for social media analysis which are intended to be illustrative and not limiting it is noted that modifications and variations can be made by persons skilled in the art in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that changes may be made in the particular embodiments disclosed which are within the scope of the invention as outlined by the appended claims. Having thus described aspects of the invention with the details and particularity required by the patent laws what is claimed and desired protected by Letters Patent is set forth in the appended claims.

