---

title: Systems and methods for voting
abstract: Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for facilitating voting. A first computer system may select a voter data pack for a first voter. The first computer system may also store an indication of the voter data pack and encrypt the voter data pack. A second computer system may receive the encrypted voter data pack and consolidate the encrypted voter data pack with checkable data. The second computer system may also store an association between the encrypted voter data pack and the checkable data, and encrypt the consolidated encrypted voter data pack and checkable data to generate a consolidated voter authorization for the first voter.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09536366&OS=09536366&RS=09536366
owner: DEMOCRACYONTHEWEB, LLC
number: 09536366
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100831
---
Voting in large and small scale elections has traditionally been conducted according to a patchwork of manual mechanical and electronic methods. One manual method commonly in use is the optical scan ballot. According to optical scan ballot methods each voter marks a paper ballot in a location corresponding to the desired vote usually with a pen. The paper ballots are then fed into automated scanners equipped with specialized software that allows the votes to be read and tallied electronically. Mechanical methods although not widely in use at the present time typically involve direct recording mechanical devices that keep a running tally of votes cast. Electronic methods include direct recording electronic systems. According to these systems voters enter their vote through an electronic interface often a touch screen . Through the interface the voter is presented with an on screen ballot and votes for candidates electronically. An electronic computer or other device keeps a tally of votes cast through the interface. Some direct recording electronic systems have been implemented to generate a physical ballot indicating each selection for recount purposes.

It is desirable for voting methods to maximize ease of use counting accuracy re counting accuracy system security and voter privacy. For example it is desirable for voting systems to be capable of use without unnecessary confusion or burden by voters lacking any sophisticated knowledge. It is also desirable for voting systems to accurately and correctly count all votes that are properly cast. For re counting accuracy it is desirable to provide access not only to total votes recorded for each candidate or position but also to individual ballot records so that each individual ballot may be recounted. For system security it is desirable that systems prevent the counting of false votes as well as the removal or modification of properly cast votes. For voter privacy it is desirable to maintain the secrecy of the ballot by minimizing or eliminating any connection between a voter s completed ballot and the voter s identity.

Many existing systems focus narrowly on counting accuracy recounting accuracy and system security at the expense of the other factors described above. For example counting accuracy and system security are enhanced by authenticating voters with a unique voter identification prior to voting. Many of these systems encrypt a voter s identification to prevent it from being viewable from the voter s ballot. Even these systems though generally fail to create an adequate barrier that separates the voter s voting data from the voter s personal information data. Even when a voter s identification is encrypted it is possible to trace back from the use of an ID to the personal identity of the voter by breaking the encryption and or hacking into a single system showing encrypted identifiers and associated voters. This fails to protect voter privacy which is fundamental to the concept of a secret ballot system of voting.

Further current and proposed recount methods have focused on the markings on each physical ballot. These schemes are designed to provide a basis for keeping or discarding a particular ballot. They do not ensure an accurate count of the markings on the ballot. They also do not help recover the votes entered on ballots that have been physically lost or damaged during or after the election.

Accordingly there is a need for systems and methods of secure voting that better balance the concerns described above.

Various embodiments are directed to systems and methods for facilitating the voting process utilizing voter identifications that are sequentially encrypted by separate computer systems. For example a voter rolls system may assign a unique voter data pack to each voter e.g. each registered voter . A record may be kept of each unique voter data pack that has been assigned to a voter. Depending on the desired degree of voter anonymity the voter rolls system may also store an association between each voter and his or her assigned voter data pack. The voter rolls system may additionally encrypt each assigned voter data pack according to any suitable encryption technique e.g. symmetric or asymmetric . The encrypted voter data pack may be transmitted to a second system which may augment the voter data pack with additional checkable data. The second system may also store an association between the checkable data and its associated voter data pack. Additionally the second system may encrypt the voter data pack in conjunction with its checkable data to generate an encrypted consolidated voter authorization for each voter.

Prior to an election each voter may be provided with a consolidated voter authorization for example on a card or other similar paper or electronic medium. Before the voter is permitted to cast a ballot the voter may be required to produce his or her consolidated voter authorization which may be verified using the first and second systems. For example the second system may decrypt the voter s consolidated voter authorization to produce the encrypted voter data pack and the additional checkable data. The second system may then verify the previously stored association between the encrypted voter data pack and the checkable data. In this way the second system may ensure that the consolidated voter authorization corresponds to a consolidated voter authorization issued by the second system.

After extraction by the second system the encrypted voter data pack may be provided to the voter rolls system. The voter rolls system may decrypt the voter data pack and verify that it corresponds to a voter data pack assigned to a voter by the voter rolls system. Provided that the voter data pack is verified either the voter rolls system or the second system may initiate an authorization message indicating that the voter who produced the consolidated encrypted identification is authorized to cast a ballot. Upon authorization the voter may cast a ballot according to any suitable manual mechanical or electronic method. After a voter s ballot is cast an image of the voter s ballot may be captured and associated with the voter s consolidated voter authorization. For example the consolidated voter authorization may be physically or electronically reproduced in the image. Ballot images generated as described may be utilized for recount purposes should a recount become necessary.

The degree of association established between the voter and the voter data pack may be determined based on the desired degree of voter anonymity. For example in embodiments where a high degree of voter anonymity is desired associating the voter and voter data pack may merely comprise storing an indication that the voter has been assigned a voter data pack and storing an indication that the voter data pack has been assigned to a voter. In embodiments where a lesser degree of voter anonymity is acceptable the specific voter data pack or an indication thereof may be stored in association with an indication of the voter .

At the voter rolls system may encrypt the voter data pack. It will be appreciated that the voter data pack may be encrypted according to any suitable encryption hardware or software method. For example the voter rolls system may encrypt the voter data pack according to a symmetric single key encryption method such as for example forms of the Advanced Encryption Standard AES Data Encryption Standard DES RC2 RC4 etc. Any suitable block size may be used. Also according to various embodiments an asymmetric or public key infrastructure PKI encryption method may be used. For example the voter rolls system may have a public key used to encrypt the voter data pack and a private key that may be used to decrypt the data packet. The public key may be generally available while the private key may not be shared with any other systems. In some embodiments symmetric and asymmetric encryption methods may be used together. For example an asymmetric method may be used to transmit a symmetric key that may then be used for further communications.

The encrypted voter data pack may be provided directly or indirectly to the vote tally system which may receive the same at . The vote tally system may select checkable data at and consolidate the encrypted voter data pack and checkable data at . The checkable data may be any sort of data that may be used by the vote tally system to later test for validity. For example the checkable data may be a date and time that the voter data pack was received associated with the checkable data or encrypted e.g. at described below . The vote tally system may store an association between the encrypted voter data pack and the checkable data which may be stored at checkable data store . In this way the vote tally system may later validate the consolidated encrypted voter data pack and checkable data by verifying that the appropriate association exists. In embodiments where additional security is desired the checkable data may be associated with the voter . For example the checkable data may comprise an identifier of the voter including for example an address Social Security or other identifying number fingerprint or other biometric etc. It will be appreciated however that associating the checkable data to the voter may reduce the strength of voter anonymity.

At the vote tally system may encrypt the consolidated voter data pack and checkable data to generate the consolidated voter authorization for the voter . The encryption may be performed according to any suitable symmetric or asymmetric method including combinations thereof. According to various embodiments the process flow may be performed for each voter indicated at the voter registration records . In this way a unique consolidated voter authorization may be generated for each voter. According to various embodiments each consolidated voter authorization may be used for a single election e.g. a unique voter authorization may be used to vote only once .

When generated consolidated voter authorizations may be communicated to voters in any suitable paper or electronic form. According to various embodiments each voter may be provided with a card listing the voter s consolidated voter authorization. For example the consolidated voter authorization may be represented on the card in alphanumeric form and or as a bar code or other machine readable format. Also according to various embodiments voters may be provided with consolidated voter authorizations on magnetic scan cards smart cards e.g. cards with onboard computer memory or other computer readable media. In some embodiments a voter s consolidated voter authorization may be provided electronically e.g. via e mail . The voter may then record the consolidated identifier on paper or electronically.

According to various embodiments the consolidated voter authorization may be utilized by any suitable manual mechanical or electronic voting process. For example illustrates one embodiment of a system for receiving a vote using a consolidated voter authorization generated as described herein. The system may generally describe embodiments where the voter physically travels to a polling place to cast a vote. The polling place may utilize any sort of manual mechanical or computerized voting methods as will be described herein. For example the polling place may comprise any suitable equipment for receiving recording and or counting votes as well as for communicating with one or more of the vote tally system and the voter rolls system .

Provided that the consolidated voter authorization is verified the polling place may provide the voter with a ballot and receive a completed ballot at . The ballot may be any suitable type of ballot. For example if the polling place is utilizing a direct recording electronic device the ballot may be provided to the voter via a computer device such as a touch screen . If the polling place is utilizing a manual method such as an optical scan method the ballot may be a paper ballot configured to be tallied by an optical scanning or other similar device. After the ballot is received from the voter the polling place may submit the completed ballot and the consolidated voter authorization to the vote tally system and or the voter rolls system at . The consolidated voter authorization may be marked as voted at e.g. at one or both of the vote tally system and the voter rolls system .

According to various embodiments the polling place may also capture an image of the completed ballot and the consolidated voter authorization. For example when the polling place is using a paper type ballot a representation of the consolidated voter authorization may be physically affixed to the ballot and an image captured. Also for example the representation of the consolidated voter authorization may be electronically affixed to the image utilizing any suitable technology. In some cases e.g. upon failure of a paper ballot scanning machine the consolidated voter authorization may be hand written to a ballot prior to image capture. The image may be captured and or stored according to any suitable electronic image format including for example .jpg .bmp .gif .tif etc. According to various embodiments the image may be grayscale or color and may be of a suitable resolution to distinguish between markings used to indicate votes on the ballot.

The ballot may be tallied at . It will be appreciated that the ballot may be tallied by any suitable component of the system . For example the polling place or precinct may tally the ballot e.g. utilizing a Direct Recording Electronic device optical scanner or other suitable mechanism . Results of the tallying may be stored at a vote tally data store and provided to a central location when the polls close. In addition to or instead of tallying by the polling place the ballot may be tallied by the vote tally system for example as described herein with respect to .

If the association between the voter data pack and the checkable data is valid the encrypted voter data pack may be provided to the voter rolls system at . The voter rolls system may decrypt the voter data pack at and determine if the voter data pack is valid. Determining if the voter data pack is valid may comprise verifying that a the voter data pack was previously assigned to a voter and b the voter data pack has not been previously used to authorize a vote. Provided that these conditions are true the voter may be authorized to cast a ballot and a message to that effect may be provided to the polling place or proxy server via any suitable communication format or route. It will be appreciated that additional validation conditions may also be applied. For example in embodiments when the voter data pack is directly associated with a voter the voter rolls system may perform a further check to ensure that the voter requesting authorization to cast a ballot is the same voter that was originally associated with the voter data pack.

According to various embodiments the systems and methods described herein may be adapted to support secure secret ballot voting over the Internet or other suitable network. illustrates one embodiment of a system for receiving a vote over a network using a consolidated voter authorization generated as described herein. The voter may access the Internet or other network via a network device . The network device may be any suitable device capable of communication on a network including for example a personal computer a laptop computer a personal digital assistant a mobile telephone etc. The network device may communicate with a proxy server which may be in communication with the vote tally system and or the voter rolls system . As described herein the proxy server may be configured to strip indications of the voter and or the network device before providing communications to the vote tally system and or the voter rolls system . This may allow the voter to remain anonymous to the vote tally system and or the voter rolls system .

The network device e.g. via the interface may provide the consolidated voter authorization to the proxy server which may receive the same at . At the consolidated voter authorization may be verified. For example the consolidated voter authorization may be verified in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the process flow . It will be appreciated that in embodiments where voter anonymity is prioritized the proxy server may strip communications to the vote tally system of any indication of the voter or the network device e.g. Internet Protocol IP address Media Access Control MAC address etc. .

Provided that the consolidated voter authorization is verified at the ballot may be presented to the voter at for example via the network device . The voter may complete the ballot in any suitable manner and return it to the proxy server via the network device. According to various embodiments the proxy server may generate and or store an image of the completed ballot in association with the consolidated voter authorization of the voter e.g. in one or more of the formats described above . For example the proxy server may electronically affix an indication of the consolidated voter authorization to an image of the completed ballot and store the same for future access e.g. in the case of a recount . According to various embodiments the proxy server may capture the image by performing a screen capture from the network device . At the votes indicated by the received ballot may be tallied. In some embodiments the proxy server itself may maintain a tally of votes cast through the proxy server e.g. at a vote tally data store . At the conclusion of a voting period results from the vote tally data store may be provided to a central location e.g. the vote tally system to determine the outcome of the election. According to other various embodiments votes may be tallied directly at the vote tally system e.g. at vote tally data store .

According to various embodiments the systems and methods described herein may facilitate recounts. For example if a recount is desired the images of each cast ballot e.g. as captured at and may be recalled. For example the images may be stored on any sort of non volatile data storage. According to various embodiments the non volatile data storage may reside off line to prevent hacking be durable and have a large capacity e.g. large enough to store all of the ballots expected to be cast at a voting location or proxy server . Examples of non volatile data storage include for example writable compact disks CD s or digital video disks DVD s . When the images are recalled each ballot may be reviewed manually or automatically. Also because each ballot may indicate a consolidated voter authorization of the voter who cast the ballot it may be possible to also re validate each voter during the recount.

According to various embodiments multi sweep recounts may be performed. For example at a first sweep image files may be automatically re counted. For example when the image files show optical scan paper ballots the images themselves may be provided to optical scan vote counters for re count. In other embodiments utilizing optical scan or electronic ballots the images may be analyzed by any suitable image processing algorithms for determining the location of markings on each ballot indicating the vote or votes thereon. At a second sweep of the re count each image may be individually and manually analyzed. According to various embodiments the two sweeps may be combined for example by using the first sweep for uncontested ballots and the second sweep for those ballots that are contested and therefore require additional scrutiny.

According to various embodiments the systems and methods described herein may be robust enough to handle contingencies that may occur during the voting process. For example it will be appreciated that communications may be lost between the polling place proxy server and the vote tally system and or voter rolls system . In this case the voter may be provided with and may fill out a ballot. Ballots filled out during a communications failure may be kept at the polling place or proxy server until communication is restored at such time the stored votes may be verified and if proper cast as described herein. The systems may respond similarly upon a failure of communications between the vote tally system and the voter rolls system . The vote tally system may continue to operate provisionally accepting and separately tallying ballots. When communication is restored the vote tally system may verify held ballots and if proper cast them as described herein.

It will also be appreciated that hackers may attempt to access various components of the systems in order to improperly tamper with votes and or voter authorization. The systems may be robust so as to avoid or mitigate such attacks. For example if a voting machine at the polling place is hacked the ballot images may be utilized to accurately re generate any lost votes. If a proxy server is hacked ballot images may be used in the same way to recreate any lost ballots. Additionally if hacking causes a proxy server to shut down requests to vote may be shunted to other proxy servers not shown in communication with the vote tally system and or the voter rolls system .

Steps may be taken to prevent hacking of the voter rolls system or the vote tally system . For example these systems may not be connected to any network or other outside communication source until voting begins. Additionally they may be examined each day to determine that they are in operation and to check for compromise due to hacking. Additionally the systems may be set up to accept commands only from voters with valid consolidated voter authorizations.

An additional security feature of the systems may arise from the dual nature of the voter rolls system and the vote tally system . For example in order to nefariously generate a consolidated voter authorization a hacker would be required to separately hack into both systems which may pose a considerable challenge. Also because vote totals may be kept at multiple locations e.g. the polling place or proxy server and the vote tally system it may be necessary to hack into two separate systems in order to change vote totals. Additionally any changed vote totals may be detected in a recount based on ballot images. Should it be determined that the decryption key of either of the systems has been stolen or compromised the systems may generate new decryption keys and replace any consolidated voter authorizations created during the time that the decryption key or keys was compromised.

The various systems described herein may represent a complete voting system or in some embodiments may represent one component of a larger system. For example the system or systems may be implemented by a single precinct county congressional district etc. with other subdivisions implementing similar or different voting systems. Also it will be appreciated that the networked nature of the systems may facilitate the addition of new polling places designed to handle smaller number of voters. For example referring to the system a network device may be set up by a voting authority and may act as a polling place. Voters may cast their ballots at the network device in the manner described by the process flow . The cost of such network device polling places may be minimal making it cost effective to have more of them.

Different computer systems the systems of etc. are described herein as communicating with one another. It will be appreciated that this communication may take place in any suitable method. For example according to various embodiments some or all of the computer systems described herein may be in communication with one another via a network or networks. The network or networks may operate according to any suitable wired or wireless communication protocol and may utilize any suitable hardware or software. In some embodiments the network or networks may include a wide area network WAN such as the Internet a local area network LAN etc.

When communications between the systems the systems of etc. take place over the Internet or other public network it will be appreciated that these communications may be encrypted. For example one or more of the systems may utilize an asymmetric or public key infrastructure PKI method. According to a PKI system each system may have a public key that may be used for encrypting messages and a private key that may be used for decryption. The public key may be provided to any systems having need to send data to the first system. The data may be encrypted with the public key such that it may only be decrypted with the private key which may be kept secret by the receiving system. In this way all communications between the various systems may be decrypted only by their intended recipients.

According to various embodiments the systems may each be implemented on exclusive hardware. For example the system may not share any hardware with the system . Also for example the system may not share any hardware with the system . This may increase security as it may make it more difficult for a potential hacker to access the sensitive operations of both system and or system as would be necessary to tamper with the election process. In other embodiments though the systems may share common hardware. For example the systems may be implemented on a single computer device or a common set of computer devices. Hardware or software tools may be utilized to provide segregation between the systems in order to increase the difficulty of hacking both systems to tamper with an election. For example a firewall may be implemented to limit the types and security of electronic communications between the system . It will be appreciated that the systems may also be implemented with overlapping hardware for example as described herein.

The examples presented herein are intended to illustrate potential and specific implementations of the present invention. It can be appreciated that the examples are intended primarily for purposes of illustration of the invention for those skilled in the art. No particular aspect or aspects of the examples are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the present invention. For example no particular aspect or aspects of the examples of system architectures methods or processing structures described herein are necessarily intended to limit the scope of the invention.

It is to be understood that the figures and descriptions of the present invention have been simplified to illustrate elements that are relevant for a clear understanding of the present invention while eliminating for purposes of clarity other elements. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize however that these sorts of focused descriptions would not facilitate a better understanding of the present invention and therefore a more detailed description of such elements is not provided herein.

In various embodiments modules or software can be used to practice certain aspects of the invention. For example software as a service SaaS models or application service provider ASP models may be employed as software application delivery models to communicate software applications to clients or other users. Such software applications can be downloaded through an Internet connection for example and operated either independently e.g. downloaded to a laptop or desktop computer system or through a third party service provider e.g. accessed through a third party web site . In addition cloud computing techniques may be employed in connection with various embodiments of the invention.

Moreover the processes associated with the present embodiments may be executed by programmable equipment such as computers. Software or other sets of instructions that may be employed to cause programmable equipment to execute the processes. The processes may be stored in any storage device such as for example a computer system non volatile memory an optical disk magnetic tape or magnetic disk. Furthermore some of the processes may be programmed when the computer system is manufactured or via a computer readable memory medium.

It can also be appreciated that certain process aspects described herein may be performed using instructions stored on a computer readable memory medium or media that direct a computer or computer system to perform process steps. A computer readable medium may include for example memory devices such as diskettes compact discs of both read only and read write varieties optical disk drives and hard disk drives. A computer readable medium may also include memory storage that may be physical virtual permanent temporary semi permanent and or semi temporary.

A computer computer device host engine or processor may be for example and without limitation a processor microcomputer minicomputer server mainframe laptop personal data assistant PDA wireless e mail device cellular phone pager processor fax machine scanner or any other programmable device configured to transmit and or receive data over a network. Computer systems and computer based devices disclosed herein may include memory for storing certain software applications used in obtaining processing and communicating information. It can be appreciated that such memory may be internal or external with respect to operation of the disclosed embodiments. The memory may also include any means for storing software including a hard disk an optical disk floppy disk ROM read only memory RAM random access memory PROM programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable PROM and or other computer readable memory media.

In various embodiments of the present invention a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. Except where such substitution would not be operative to practice embodiments of the present invention such substitution is within the scope of the present invention. Any of the servers or computer systems described herein for example may be replaced by a server farm or other grouping of networked servers e.g. a group of server blades that are located and configured for cooperative functions. It can be appreciated that a server farm may serve to distribute workload between among individual components of the farm and may expedite computing processes by harnessing the collective and cooperative power of multiple servers. Such server farms may employ load balancing software that accomplishes tasks such as for example tracking demand for processing power from different machines prioritizing and scheduling tasks based on network demand and or providing backup contingency in the event of component failure or reduction in operability.

Various embodiments of the systems and methods described herein may employ one or more electronic computer networks to promote communication among different components transfer data or to share resources and information. Such computer networks can be classified according to the hardware and software technology that is used to interconnect the devices in the network such as optical fiber Ethernet wireless LAN HomePNA power line communication or G.hn. The computer networks may also be embodied as one or more of the following types of networks local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN virtual private network VPN storage area network SAN or global area network GAN among other network varieties.

For example a WAN computer network may cover a broad area by linking communications across metropolitan regional or national boundaries. The network may use routers and or public communication links. One type of data communication network may cover a relatively broad geographic area e.g. city to city or country to country which uses transmission facilities provided by common carriers such as telephone service providers. In another example a GAN computer network may support mobile communications across multiple wireless LANs or satellite networks. In another example a VPN computer network may include links between nodes carried by open connections or virtual circuits in another network e.g. the Internet instead of by physical wires. The link layer protocols of the VPN can be tunneled through the other network. One VPN application can promote secure communications through the Internet. The VPN can also be used to separately and securely conduct the traffic of different user communities over an underlying network. The VPN may provide users with the virtual experience of accessing the network through an IP address location other than the actual IP address which connects the access device to the network.

Computer networks may include hardware elements to interconnect network nodes such as network interface cards NICs or Ethernet cards repeaters bridges hubs switches routers and other like components. Such elements may be physically wired for communication and or data connections may be provided with microwave links e.g. IEEE 802.12 or fiber optics for example. A network card network adapter or NIC can be designed to allow computers to communicate over the computer network by providing physical access to a network and an addressing system through the use of MAC addresses for example. A repeater can be embodied as an electronic device that receives and retransmits a communicated signal at a boosted power level to allow the signal to cover a telecommunication distance with reduced degradation. A network bridge can be configured to connect multiple network segments at the data link layer of a computer network while learning which addresses can be reached through which specific ports of the network. In the network the bridge may associate a port with an address and then send traffic for that address only to that port. In various embodiments local bridges may be employed to directly connect local area networks LANs remote bridges can be used to create a wide area network WAN link between LANs and or wireless bridges can be used to connect LANs and or to connect remote stations to LANs.

In various embodiments a hub may be employed which contains multiple ports. For example when a data packet arrives at one port of a hub the packet can be copied unmodified to all ports of the hub for transmission. A network switch or other devices that forward and filter OSI layer 2 datagrams between ports based on MAC addresses in data packets can also be used. A switch can possess multiple ports such that most of the network is connected directly to the switch or another switch that is in turn connected to a switch. The term switch can also include routers and bridges as well as other devices that distribute data traffic by application content e.g. a Web URL identifier . Switches may operate at one or more OSI model layers including physical data link network or transport i.e. end to end . A device that operates simultaneously at more than one of these layers can be considered a multilayer switch. In certain embodiments routers or other like networking devices may be used to forward data packets between networks using headers and forwarding tables to determine an optimum path through which to transmit the packets.

As employed herein an application server may be a server that hosts an API to expose business logic and business processes for use by other applications. Examples of application servers include J2EE or Java EE 5 application servers including WebSphere Application Server. Other examples include WebSphere Application Server Community Edition IBM Sybase Enterprise Application Server Sybase Inc WebLogic Server BEA JBoss Red Hat JRun Adobe Systems Apache Geronimo Apache Software Foundation Oracle OC4J Oracle Corporation Sun Java System Application Server Sun Microsystems and SAP Netweaver AS ABAP Java . Also application servers may be provided in accordance with the .NET framework including the Windows Communication Foundation .NET Remoting ADO.NET and ASP.NET among several other components. For example a Java Server Page JSP is a servlet that executes in a web container which is functionally equivalent to CGI scripts. JSPs can be used to create HTML pages by embedding references to the server logic within the page. The application servers may mainly serve web based applications while other servers can perform as session initiation protocol servers for instance or work with telephony networks. Specifications for enterprise application integration and service oriented architecture can be designed to connect many different computer network elements. Such specifications include Business Application Programming Interface Web Services Interoperability and Java EE Connector Architecture.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described herein it should be apparent however that various modifications alterations and adaptations to those embodiments may occur to persons skilled in the art with the attainment of some or all of the advantages of the present invention. The disclosed embodiments are therefore intended to include all such modifications alterations and adaptations without departing from the scope and spirit of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

