---

title: Carbon nanotube electron gun
abstract: An electron gun, an electron source for an electron gun, an extractor for an electron gun, and a respective method for producing the electron gun, the electron source and the extractor are disclosed. Embodiments provide an electron source utilizing a carbon nanotube (CNT) bonded to a substrate for increased stability, reliability, and durability. An extractor with an aperture in a conductive material is used to extract electrons from the electron source, where the aperture may substantially align with the CNT of the electron source when the extractor and electron source are mated to form the electron gun. The electron source and extractor may have alignment features for aligning the electron source and the extractor, thereby bringing the aperture and CNT into substantial alignment when assembled. The alignment features may provide and maintain this alignment during operation to improve the field emission characteristics and overall system stability of the electron gun.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08536546&OS=08536546&RS=08536546
owner: Eloret Corporation
number: 08536546
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101207
---
The present application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 674 filed Jun. 11 2007 entitled CARBON NANOTUBE ELECTRON GUN naming Cattien V. Nguyen and Bryan P. Ribaya as inventors assigned to the assignee of the present invention which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 921 134 filed Mar. 30 2007 entitled CARBON NANOTUBE ELECTRON GUN naming Cattien V. Nguyen and Bryan P. Ribaya as inventors assigned to the assignee of the present invention. Those applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and for all purposes.

The present application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 729 124 filed Mar. 27 2007 entitled CARBON NANOTUBE ELECTRON SOURCE naming Cattien V. Nguyen as the inventor assigned to the assignee of the present invention. That application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

The invention described herein was made by non government employees whose contributions were made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 . This invention was made with Government support under contract NAS2 03144 awarded by NASA. The Government has certain rights in this invention.

A carbon nanotube CNT is one or more sheets of graphite rolled into a tube with a diameter on the order of a nanometer. Single walled carbon nanotubes SWNTs consist of a single sheet of graphite with a thickness of roughly one atom whereas multi walled carbon nanotubes MWNTs consist of multiple sheets of graphite rolled into concentric tubes. In general CNTs are an attractive option for electron emission given their robust physical chemical and electrical properties. And in particular CNTs perform well as cold field emitters due to their high aspect ratios providing low turn on fields.

Given the robust properties of CNTs and their ability to emit electrons CNTs can make very effective electron sources for electron field emission guns. However the performance of the electron gun is dependent upon the implementation of the CNT within the electron gun as well as the overall configuration of the electron gun itself. Most conventional electron guns utilize poor CNT implementation and electron gun configuration and as such exhibit poor field emission characteristics stability reliability and durability.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 7 151 268 to Fujieda et al. discusses a conventional electron gun using a conventional extractor to extract electrons from an electron source. The electron gun discussed in the 268 patent has no provision for aligning the CNT with the extractor thereby requiring complex and expensive focusing electron optics. Additionally the misalignment of the extractor and the CNT in conventional electron guns requires the use of large focusing electron optics. Accordingly conventional electron guns cannot be used in many miniaturized applications.

Accordingly a need exists to provide an improved electron source for use in electron guns. A need also exists for an improved extractor for use in electron guns. Additionally a need exists to provide an electron gun with improved alignment of the carbon nanotube and extractor. Embodiments of the present invention provide novel solutions to these needs and others as described below.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to an electron gun an electron source for an electron gun an extractor for an electron gun and a respective method for producing the electron gun the electron source and the extractor. More specifically embodiments provide an electron source utilizing a carbon nanotube CNT bonded to a substrate for increased mechanical and electrical stability reliability and durability. An extractor with an aperture in a conductive material is used to extract electrons from the electron source where the aperture may substantially align with the CNT of the electron source when the extractor and electron source are mated to form the electron gun. The electron source and extractor may have alignment features for aligning the electron source and the extractor thereby bringing the aperture and CNT into substantial alignment when assembled. The alignment features may provide and maintain this alignment during operation to improve the field emission characteristics and overall system stability of the electron gun.

In one embodiment an electron source includes a substrate and a conductive material disposed on the substrate. The electron source also includes a carbon nanotube coupled to the conductive material. The substrate may include a feature for accepting the carbon nanotube and wherein the carbon nanotube is coupled to a portion of the conductive material disposed on the feature. The substrate may also include at least one alignment feature for aligning the carbon nanotube with an extractor aperture of the electron gun.

In another embodiment a method of producing an electron source includes etching a substrate to create a feature for accepting a carbon nanotube. A conductive material is applied to the substrate. The carbon nanotube may be coupled to a portion of the conductive material disposed on the feature. The coupling may include applying an electric potential between the carbon nanotube and the conductive material and also welding the carbon nanotube to the portion of the conductive material disposed on the feature. The method may also include adjusting a length of the carbon nanotube using joule heating where the adjusting includes inducing stress in a region of the carbon nanotube to increase an electrical resistance of the region. A current is passed through the carbon nanotube to induce joule heating at the region. The current is adjusted until the joule heating causes the carbon nanotube to break at the region.

In yet another embodiment an electron gun includes an electron source including a carbon nanotube and a first conductive material electrically coupled to the carbon nanotube wherein the electron source is operable to emit electrons in response to an application of an electric potential to at least one of the carbon nanotube and the first conductive material. The electron gun also includes an extractor including a second conductive material with an aperture wherein the extractor is operable to at least one of extract and accelerate electrons emitted from the electron source in response to the application of the electric potential between the second conductive material and at least one of the carbon nanotube and the first conductive material. The electron source includes a first alignment feature and the extractor includes a second alignment feature and wherein the first and second alignment features are for substantially aligning the carbon nanotube with the aperture. The first and second alignment features may be operable to interface with one another when the extractor is mated with the electron source.

In another embodiment an array of electron guns includes a first electron gun including a first electron source including a first carbon nanotube wherein the first electron source is operable to emit electrons in response to an application of an electric potential to the carbon nanotube. A first extractor includes a first conductive material with a first aperture for at least one of extracting and accelerating electrons emitted from the electron source in response to the application of the electric potential between the first conductive material and the first carbon nanotube. The first electron source and the first extractor each comprise at least one alignment feature for substantially aligning the first carbon nanotube with the first aperture. The array of electron guns also includes a second electron gun located in proximity to the first electron gun where the second electron gun includes a second electron source comprising a second carbon nanotube wherein the second electron source is operable to emit electrons in response to an application of an electric potential to the carbon nanotube. A second extractor includes a second conductive material with a second aperture for at least one of extracting and accelerating electrons emitted from the electron source in response to the application of the electric potential between the second conductive material and the second carbon nanotube. The second electron source and the second extractor may each comprise at least one alignment feature for substantially aligning the second carbon nanotube with the second aperture.

In yet another embodiment a method of producing an extractor for an electron gun includes identifying a reference point common to both an electron source and an extractor when the extractor is mated with the electron source. A relative position of a carbon nanotube of said electron source is determined with respect to the reference point. An aperture is then created in a conductive material of the extractor at the relative position with respect to the reference point wherein the aperture is substantially aligned with the carbon nanotube when the extractor is mated with the electron source. The electron source and the extractor may each comprise at least one alignment feature for maintaining alignment of the electron source and the extractor when mated and wherein the reference point is associated with the alignment feature. The creating the aperture may include focused ion beam milling the conductive material of the extractor to generate the aperture. Additionally the method may include fabricating the extractor where the fabricating may include disposing the conductive material on a substrate and etching the substrate to create at least one alignment feature for aligning the extractor with the electron source.

In another embodiment a method of providing field emission current using an electron gun includes applying an electric potential between an electron source and an extractor of the electron gun wherein the electron source and the extractor each comprise at least one respective alignment feature for substantially aligning a carbon nanotube of the electron source with an aperture of the extractor. The method also includes extracting electrons from the carbon nanotube using the extractor to provide the field emission current. The method may also include using the field emission current to perform at least one of electron microscopy electron beam metrology and electron beam lithography.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the present invention will be discussed in conjunction with the following embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the present invention to these embodiments alone. On the contrary the present invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included with the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the following detailed description of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the present invention.

As shown in step involves etching a substrate to create a feature for accepting a carbon nanotube. For example as shown in substrate may be etched to form feature . Substrate may comprise a non conductive material in one embodiment. Alternatively substrate may comprise a semi conductive material such as silicon e.g. using a silicon wafer in another embodiment. Additionally feature may be formed by appropriately masking substrate and applying an etching process e.g. a reactive ion etch RIE to etch the unmasked portions.

Feature may be shaped to enable attachment of a carbon nanotube CNT and also to provide adequate mechanical and electrical stability for the CNT during operation. Additionally the dimensions e.g. length width diameter etc. of feature may be varied to control emission properties of the CNT. For example in one embodiment the size of feature may be increased to increase the turn on voltage of the CNT thereby decreasing the electric field at the CNT tip. And in one embodiment feature may comprise a post having a height and diameter of approximately 70 m.

As shown in step involves adding an alignment feature to the substrate for aligning an extractor to the completed electron source. For example substrate may be further etched in one embodiment to create alignment feature for aligning the electron source to an extractor of an electron gun. The extractor or any components disposed between the electron source and the extractor in the assembled electron gun may comprise one or more features for interfacing with feature of the electron source. As such the electron source may align with the extractor when the electron gun is assembled thereby substantially aligning the CNT of the electron source with an aperture of the extractor in one embodiment. Thus the electron gun utilizing the electron source produced in may exhibit improved field emission characteristics stability reliability and durability.

Alignment feature may be formed by appropriately masking substrate and applying an etching solution to etch the unmasked portions. In one embodiment alignment feature may be formed in accordance with MEMS fabrication technology. The mask applied to substrate may be based upon alignment features of an existing extractor such that feature may appropriately mate with one or more of the alignment features of the extractor after etching. Where substrate comprises silicon e.g. using a silicon wafer a KOH wet etch solution e.g. also comprising water and isopropyl alcohol may be applied to substrate to form surfaces and of feature . Surfaces and may have substantially equal angles e.g. with respect to base of substrate where the angles may be a result of orientation dependent etching of substrate . In one embodiment surfaces and may represent 111 planes at approximately 54.7 degrees from the 100 plane. Additionally in one embodiment the etching of substrate may produce upper surface with dimensions of approximately 170 m by 170 m and bottom surface with dimensions of approximately 300 m by 300 m.

Alternatively alignment feature may comprise a separate object added to substrate . For example feature may comprise any object e.g. a block post etc. coupled e.g. bonded press fit etc. to the substrate for interfacing with a feature e.g. edge surface object coupled to etc. of an extractor or any other object disposed between the electron source and the extractor in the assembled electron gun. And in other embodiments feature may comprise a portion removed from substrate e.g. to create a hole etc. where the removed portion may interface with a feature of the extractor or interfacing object may enable use of a tool for aligning the electron source and extractor etc.

As shown in step involves applying a conductive material to the substrate. For example conductive material may be applied to feature feature and base as shown in . The conductive material may comprise a material operable to bond to the substrate material. In one embodiment where the substrate comprises silicon conductive material may comprise nickel or another metal operable to form a strong interface with a CNT. Additionally application of conductive material to feature may create surfaces and which are substantially parallel to respective surfaces and as depicted in .

Although conductive material is depicted in to cover almost all of feature feature and base it should be appreciated that conductive material may only cover select regions of the substrate in other embodiments. For example in one embodiment material may form a pad e.g. on feature and an electrode e.g. disposed on feature feature base or a combination thereof coupled to the pad for applying an electric potential to the CNT e.g. to provide field emission current . Additionally although conductive material is depicted with a consistent thickness in it should be appreciated that the thickness of material may vary in other embodiments. Further it should be appreciated that the elements depicted in may comprise different shapes sizes etc. in other embodiments.

As shown in step involves coupling a CNT to a portion of the conductive material disposed on the substrate. For example CNT may be coupled to feature and or a portion of conductive material disposed on feature as shown in . The CNT e.g. may be coupled in a substantially perpendicular orientation with respect to base . Additionally CNT may be chosen based upon one or more physical characteristics e.g. length diameter etc. to vary or control field emission characteristics e.g. field enhancement energy spread brightness stability lifetime etc. of the electron source e.g. produced as a result of process and or electron gun utilizing the electron source.

The CNT e.g. may be coupled by welding the CNT to conductive material e.g. disposed on the electron source substrate e.g. . In one embodiment joule heating may be used. For example as shown in CNT may be welded to conductive material by applying electric potential to CNT e.g. the tip of CNT and conductive material e.g. forming an electrode coupled to CNT . Alternatively electric potential may be applied between CNT e.g. the tip of CNT and the electron source substrate e.g. feature feature base etc. as indicated by the dashed lines. Sufficient heat may be generated by the electrical resistance between the CNT e.g. and the conductive material e.g. to bond the CNT and the conductive material. In other embodiments other forms of welding and or bonding may be used to couple CNT to feature and or conductive material disposed thereon.

Step involves adjusting the length of the CNT. For example as shown in CNT may be shortened to form CNT . The length of the CNT may be adjusted by cutting shearing breaking joule heating e.g. in accordance with process of etc. Additionally any length adjusting procedure used to adjust the length of the CNT e.g. etc. may be repeated to further adjust the length. As such completed electron source may be produced upon adjusting the CNT e.g. to a predetermined length e.g. as represented by CNT . In one embodiment CNT may have a length of approximately 3 m. It should be appreciated that step may be optional where the CNT e.g. is of a desired length upon coupling it to the substrate e.g. feature and or conductive material e.g. disposed thereon.

Step involves passing a current through the CNT to induce joule heating at the region. The current may be passed through the CNT by applying an electric potential across the CNT or between a tip of the CNT and an electrode coupled to the CNT. In one embodiment the region in which stress was induced in step may produce more heat than surrounding regions of the CNT e.g. given the relatively higher resistance of the region with respect to the surrounding regions e.g. in which stresses were not induced . An inert and conductive material e.g. gold may be used to contact the CNT and pass the current thereby reducing the bonding between the CNT and the material during the heating.

As shown in step involves adjusting e.g. increasing and or maintaining the current until the joule heating causes the CNT to break at the region. The region e.g. that in which stress was induced in step may heat to a point such that the CNT e.g. degrades at the region thereby causing the CNT to break and form a shortened CNT e.g. . In one embodiment the break at the region may produce a shortened CNT e.g. with a sharp e.g. pointed convex etc. emitter tip. Additionally although the CNT may be shortened in step the CNT may still maintain a high aspect ratio e.g. length to diameter in one embodiment. Further in one embodiment process may produce a CNT e.g. with a length resolution of 500 nm.

As such embodiments provide convenient and effective means for varying characteristics of the CNT e.g. length diameter tube aspect ratio etc. to control field emission characteristics e.g. field enhancement energy spread brightness stability lifetime etc. of the electron source and or electron gun utilizing the electron source. Additionally varying the CNT properties may also adjust the geometry or other characteristics of the electron gun utilizing the electron source thereby enabling further control over field emission characteristics. For example the length of the CNT may be used to control the distance between the CNT tip and the extractor in an assembled electron gun where a longer CNT may equate to a shorter distance between the CNT tip and the extractor.

Turning briefly to shows set A of exemplary production stages of an electron gun extractor with a non uniform substrate in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention whereas shows set B of exemplary production stages of an electron gun extractor with a uniform substrate in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As shown in non uniform substrate comprises membrane disposed on substrate material . In one embodiment substrate material may comprise silicon. In another embodiment substrate material may comprise a metal e.g. where an insulating structure is used to substantially insulate the extractor from the electron source . Membrane may comprise SiN which may have a thickness of 200 nm in one embodiment.

Conductive material may be disposed on membrane where material may comprise metal in one embodiment. Material may form an extractor electrode for applying an electric potential e.g. which may also be applied to a CNT electrode where the electric potential may be used to provide field emission current from an electron gun utilizing extractor .

As shown in feature may be created in substrate material . Feature may comprise a recess for accepting one or more portions of an electron source e.g. CNT feature and feature of where surfaces and may form locating features for interfacing with features e.g. surfaces etc. of the electron source e.g. and or features of an object disposed between the electron source e.g. and the extractor e.g. . As such surfaces and may align or locate extractor with respect to an electron source e.g. when they are mated e.g. coupled directly coupled with one or more other components coupled between portions of the extractor and electron source etc. .

In one embodiment an angular relationship between surfaces and may be substantially equal to an angular relationship between alignment features e.g. surfaces etc. of a mating electron source. The angular relationship may be created by using a similar substrate material for both the electron source alignment features e.g. surfaces etc. and the extractor alignment features e.g. surfaces etc. where the substrate material e.g. comprises a material e.g. silicon that is amenable to an orientation dependent etch e.g. using a mixture of KOH water and isopropyl alcohol . Additionally membrane may be substantially resistant to the etching in one embodiment thereby forming a barrier between the substrate to be etched e.g. substrate material and the conductive material e.g. disposed on membrane . In other embodiments other methods e.g. non orientation dependent etching focused ion beam milling etc. may be used to produce a similar angular relationship between alignment features of the electron gun and the extractor.

As shown in uniform substrate comprises substrate material . Conductive material may be disposed directly on substrate material in one embodiment. Additionally similar to the discussion with respect to feature may be formed in substrate material where feature may accept one or more portions of an electron source e.g. CNT feature and feature of mated with extractor form alignment features e.g. surfaces and or for aligning an electron source to extractor etc.

Although depict feature with specific shapes it should be appreciated that the features e.g. may be alternatively shaped in other embodiments. Additionally although surfaces e.g. etc. of the features are described as locating or alignment features it should be appreciated that extractor and or may comprise alternative or additional alignment features in other embodiments. Further it should be appreciated that the alternative and or additional alignment features may be formed by adding to and or removing material from the extractors e.g. and or .

Referring back to step involves identifying a reference point common to both an electron source and the extractor when the extractor is mated to the electron source. As shown in assembled electron gun comprises extractor mated to electron source where the extractor and the electron source may share common reference point . The common reference point may be located at a point line or surface of the extractor e.g. and or the electron source e.g. in one embodiment. Alternatively a reference point may be common to both the extractor and the electron source if the reference point is identifiable with respect to both the extractor and the electron source individually. For example reference point may be used as a common reference point since it is identifiable with respect to extractor e.g. a distance away from surface of extractor and with respect to electron source e.g. a distance away from surface of electron source .

As shown in step involves determining a relative position of a CNT of the electron source e.g. with respect to the reference point e.g. determined in step . As shown in relative position of CNT e.g. axis may be determined with respect to reference point . Alternatively relative position of CNT e.g. axis may be determined with respect to reference point . In one embodiment an electron microscope e.g. a scanning electron microscope may be used to determine the relative position of the CNT e.g. with respect to the reference point e.g. etc. .

After a relative position is determined an aperture may be created in the conductive material of the extractor in step at the relative position e.g. determined in step with respect to the reference point. For example as shown in aperture may be created along axis of electron gun where axis may be located at a relative position e.g. etc. with respect to a reference point e.g. etc. . As such in one embodiment aperture may share an axis e.g. with CNT e.g. .

Further it should be appreciated that process enables aperture to be substantially aligned with the CNT e.g. regardless of the location and or orientation of the CNT mounting in the electron source e.g. thereby enabling the use of more lenient CNT alignment tolerances when manufacturing the electron source. Thus embodiments can reduce the cost and time associated with manufacturing the electron sources e.g. and or electron guns e.g. as well as reducing the failure rate of the manufactured electron sources and or electron guns. Further by improving the alignment of the CNT e.g. with the extractor e.g. extractor aperture embodiments enable the use of the smaller and less expensive focusing electron optics. And in other embodiments focusing electron optics may not be required given the alignment of the CNT e.g. with the extractor aperture e.g. 

Aperture may be created in conductive material and or membrane by using focused ion beam milling in one embodiment. The aperture may have a diameter ranging from approximately 20 nm to hundreds of microns in one embodiment. Although aperture is depicted in as a straight round hole it should be appreciated that aperture may be alternatively shaped in other embodiments.

Accordingly embodiments provide convenient and effective mechanisms e.g. surfaces and surfaces for aligning a CNT e.g. of an electron source e.g. with an extractor aperture e.g. thereby increasing the field emission characteristics and overall system stability of the electron gun during operation. Additionally the geometry or other characteristics of the electron gun e.g. by varying the length of CNT as discussed above with respect to prior figures by varying the position of CNT on feature by varying height of feature by varying height of feature by varying height of substrate material etc. may be varied to further control field emission characteristics. Further it should be appreciated that one or more components objects etc. e.g. an alignment component for aligning the extractor and electron source an interface component for further adjusting the geometry and or configuration of electron gun etc. may be disposed between extractor and in other embodiments.

In one embodiment at least one CNT electrode e.g. comprising or coupled to conductive material of electron guns may be coupled together to provide field emission current from a shared electric potential applied to the coupled electrodes. Similarly at least one extractor electrode e.g. comprising or coupled to conductive material of electron guns may be coupled together to provide field emission current from a shared electric potential applied to the coupled electrodes.

In other embodiments electron guns may be controlled independent of one another. For example separate electric potentials may be applied to one or more of the electron guns e.g. etc. where the separate electric potentials may be applied simultaneously and or sequentially. In one embodiment the separate electric potentials may comprise different magnitudes.

Although shows only three electron guns e.g. in array it should be appreciated that array may comprise a greater or smaller number of electron guns in other embodiments. Additionally it should be appreciated that the electrons guns of array may be arranged in a one dimensional array two dimensional array and or a three dimensional array in other embodiments. Further it should be appreciated that one or more electron guns of array may comprise different characteristics operating parameters configurations etc. in other embodiments.

As shown in step involves applying an electric potential between an electron source comprising a CNT and an extractor of an electron gun. As shown in electric potential may be applied between an extractor electrode e.g. conductive material and a CNT electrode e.g. of electron gun . In one embodiment electric potential may range from approximately 10 volts to hundreds of volts Extractor may be mated to electron source comprising CNT to form electron gun . The extractor e.g. and electron source e.g. may be mated directly as depicted in or alternatively may have at least one other component disposed between the two e.g. an alignment component for aligning the extractor and electron source an interface component for further adjusting the geometry and or configuration of electron gun etc. .

After the electric potential is applied to the electron gun e.g. electrons may be extracted and accelerated from the CNT using the extractor to provide the field emission current in step . As shown in electric potential applied between CNT e.g. coupled to the CNT electrode formed by conductive material and the conductive material e.g. of the extractor e.g. may cause CNT to emit electrons which may then be accelerated from electron gun through aperture e.g. in the direction indicated by arrow .

As discussed above the characteristics of the field emission current provided by electron gun may depend on the characteristics of electron source extractor the configuration or geometry of the electron source with respect to the extractor or a combination thereof. As such the field emission characteristics of electron gun may be conveniently and effectively controlled by varying characteristics of electron source e.g. the aspect ratio of CNT . Alternatively characteristics of extractor e.g. the location size shape etc. of aperture may be varied to change the field emission characteristics of electron gun . And in other embodiments the configuration or geometry e.g. the distance between the CNT tip and the extractor etc. of the electron source with respect to the extractor may be varied to change the field emission characteristics.

As shown in step involves using the field emission current to perform one or more tasks. In one embodiment electron gun may be used in electron microscopy. Alternatively field emission current from electron gun may be used in applications such as electron beam metrology or electron beam lithography e.g. with an array of electron guns providing relatively high throughput .

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is and is intended by the applicant to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

