---

title: Gastric restrictor assembly and method of use
abstract: A gastric restrictor assembly for positioning within the digestive tract, e.g., stomach, of a patient to treat obesity is disclosed. The gastric restrictor assembly includes an attachment mechanism for attaching the assembly within a body lumen and a valve assembly for adjusting the diameter of a throughbore defined by valve assembly. The gastric restrictor includes first and second actuators which can be actuated transorally for operating the attachment mechanism and the valve assembly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08114010&OS=08114010&RS=08114010
owner: Tyco Healthcare Group LP
number: 08114010
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100217
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 133 618 filed on May 20 2005 GASTRIC RESTRICTOR ASSEMBLY AND METHOD OF USE to Holsten et al. now U.S. Pat. No. 7 666 180 B2 issued on Feb. 23 2010 the entire content of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein.

The present disclosure relates to a surgical implant for treating obesity in a patient. More particularly the present disclosure relates to a surgical implant for constricting the stomach of a patient to treat obesity in a patient.

A variety of different approaches are known for the treatment of obesity in a patient. These approaches can be of the non surgical variety e.g. dieting or of the surgical variety e.g. gastric bypass small bowel bypass etc. Where non invasive non surgical procedures such as dieting rely on the will power of a patient and may not be effective invasive surgical procedures such as bypass surgery can be risky and have undesirable side effects. As such less invasive surgical devices for constricting or reducing the capacity of the digestive tract e.g. the stomach have been developed. These devices include gastric bands which are positioned about the stomach to constrict the stomach and devices such as inflatable balloons for reducing the reservoir capacity of the stomach. Each of these types of devices produce a sense of satiety in a patient to reduce the patient s desire to ingest food.

Although the above identified devices have had some success improvements to these devices would be desirable.

In accordance with the present disclosure a gastric restrictor assembly is provided which includes a housing a valve assembly and an attachment mechanism. In one embodiment the valve assembly is supported within the housing and includes a first member a second member and a plurality of vanes which define a throughbore. The plurality of vanes are pivotally supported about a pivot member on the first member and the first member is fixedly secured within the housing. The second member is rotatably secured to the first member and includes a plurality of cam members. Each of the cam members is positioned within a slot formed in one of the plurality of vanes. The second member is movable in relation to the first member to move the cam members within the slots to effect pivoting of the vanes about the pivot members. The second member is movable between a first position and a second position to move the vanes between a first position defining a minimum throughbore diameter and a second position defining a maximum throughbore diameter.

In one embodiment the first member includes a first ring or annular member and the second member includes a second ring or annular member. The second ring member includes gear teeth positioned at least partially about its periphery. An actuator is rotatably supported on the housing and includes gear teeth positioned to mesh with the gear teeth of the second ring member to move the second ring member between its first and second positions.

In one embodiment the attachment mechanism includes a plurality of arcuate fastening members or hoops and a drive ring. Each hoop can include a pointed or sharpened tip and an arcuate body having a plurality of threads formed thereon. The drive ring includes an inner surface having a plurality of gear teeth and an outer surface having a helical thread. The fastening members are positioned at least partially within the housing such that each fastening member extends through or is positioned to extend through an opening in the housing. The helical thread of the drive ring is positioned to engage the plurality of the threads on the arcuate body of each fastening member such that upon movement of the drive ring in relation to the fastening member each fastening member is moved between a retracted position and a deployed or advanced position.

In one embodiment the inner surface of the drive ring includes gear teeth which are positioned to mesh with the gear teeth of a drive ring actuator. The drive ring actuator is actuable to effect rotation of the drive ring in relation to the plurality of fastening members.

In one embodiment an attachment mechanism actuation tool is provided to actuate the drive ring actuator and a valve assembly adjustment tool is provided to actuate the second member of the valve assembly. Both the attachment mechanism actuation tool and the valve assembly adjustment tool can be configured and dimensioned for transoral actuation of the attachment mechanism and the valve assembly respectively.

Embodiments of the presently disclosed gastric restrictor assembly and its method of use will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings in which like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding elements in each of the several views.

Referring to valve assembly includes actuator a first member a second member and a multiplicity of vanes . First and second members and may be in the form of first and second rings which define a throughbore which is substantially coaxial with throughbore of housing . First member is rotatably fixed to a bottom inner wall of housing such as by pins . A plurality of pivot members are spaced about first member . Each pivot member is positioned and dimensioned to be received in a hole formed in a respective vane such that vanes are pivotally supported on first member . Each vane includes an elongated slot . It is envisioned that pivot members may be formed integrally with housing and first member can be eliminated from assembly .

Second member is rotatably mounted to first member . In one embodiment second member includes first and second half sections and which are fastened about first member . First member includes an annular recess which is dimensioned to receive an annular rib formed about an inner wall of second member . Positioning of rib within annular recess of first member rotatably fastens second member to first member .

Second member includes a plurality of cam members which are positioned on an inner wall of second member . Cam members are received in respective slots of vanes . Slots of vanes are configured such that rotation of second member in relation to first member effects movement of vanes either into or out from throughbore . Vanes define an iris valve for selectively adjusting the diameter or cross sectional area of throughbore . Although throughbore is illustrated as being circular other non circular configurations are envisioned e.g. rectangular square oblong etc.

In one embodiment the outer periphery of second member includes a series of gear teeth . Actuator also includes a series of gear teeth . Gear teeth are positioned to mesh with gear teeth such that rotation of actuator effects rotation of second member in relation to first member . Alternately gear teeth may only extend over a portion of the outer periphery of second member . As discussed above rotation of second member in relation to first member effects movement of vanes to selectively vary the diameter or cross sectional area of throughbore . It is envisioned that other types of actuators may be employed to operate valve assembly .

Actuator is rotatably mounted about a post formed on housing and includes engagement structure for engaging a valve assembly adjustment tool . Engagement structure may include a hexagonal recess. Alternately other engagement structure including internal and external interlocking configurations may be used.

Referring again to attachment mechanism includes a drive member or ring and a plurality of fastening elements or hoops which are spaced about ring . Ring is rotatably mounted on a circular rail formed on housing . Alternately ring can be rotatably secured to housing using other known fastening techniques. It is envisioned that fastening elements may comprise configurations other than hoops or alternately include a single element having one or more attachment surfaces. In one embodiment ring includes an inner gear surface and an outer surface defining a helical thread . Each hoop includes a tip which may be pointed and a series of teeth or worm gear segments positioned to engage helical thread of ring .

Actuator is rotatably mounted about a post formed on an outer surface of housing and includes gear teeth which are positioned to mesh with gear surface of drive ring . When actuator is rotated within housing drive ring is also driven in rotation by engagement of gear teeth with gear surface . As drive ring rotates helical threads engage teeth of each of hoops to advance tips of hoops through openings of housing along a substantially arcuate path. As will be discussed in further detail below hoops function to secure gastric restrictor assembly within a body lumen. An attachment mechanism actuation tool which can be configured for transoral use is provided to operate actuator .

Referring to FIGS. and during installation of gastric restrictor assembly into a body lumen e.g. the stomach gastric restrictor assembly is positioned within stomach transorally. Alternately gastric restrictor assembly can be positioned with a body lumen during an open surgical procedure. The outer wall of housing is positioned adjacent an inner wall of stomach . Next actuator is operated to rotate drive ring . As drive ring is rotated within housing helical threads which engage teeth of hoops advances each of hoops from within housing along an arc shaped path through a portion of inner wall of stomach . The arc shaped path or curvature of hoops should be such as to advance tips of hoops through only a portion of inner wall of stomach without fully penetrating wall of stomach . This will prevent gastric fluids from exiting the stomach into the abdominal cavity. It is envisioned that the shape of hoops may be changed to alter the path of travel of hoops to effect full penetration of a wall of a body lumen if desired. Engagement of hoops with wall of stomach secures gastric restrictor assembly to inner wall of stomach . Although a multiplicity of hoops are illustrated in two or more hoops need only be provided to secure assembly within the stomach.

When gastric restrictor assembly is secured within the stomach throughbore of valve assembly defines a passage through the stomach. The diameter of throughbore can be selectively intraorally adjusted from a maximum diameter shown in to a minimum diameter shown in using valve assembly adjustment tool . As discussed above adjustment tool operates actuation member to reposition vanes of valve assembly .

It will be understood that various modifications may be made to the embodiments disclosed herein. For example the actuation mechanism for the valve assembly and or the attachment mechanism not be gear driven but rather may include other types of drive mechanism e.g. cam mechanism etc. Further the gastric restrictor assembly may be positioned at any position in the digestive tract where restriction may be warranted or desired. Therefore the above description should not be construed as limiting but merely as exemplifications of embodiments. Those skilled in the art will envision other modifications within the scope and spirit of the claims appended hereto.

