---

title: Methods and apparatus for providing rotational movement and thermal stability to a cooled sample
abstract: A method of rotating a sample for use in a cryocooler, having the steps of mounting a sample in a sample mounting apparatus, the apparatus comprising a housing having an outer wall surface, an inner wall surface, a mount attached to the inner wall surface for supporting the sample, and a motor for rotating the sample, and an exchange gas to provide thermal communication between the moving sample and the inner housing surfaces; sealing the housing by applying a sealant to adjoining parts of the housing such that the joints are air tight; evacuating the housing; adding an inert gas to the housing; sealing the inert gas in the housing; attaching the outer wall surface of the housing to a cryocooler; and rotating the sample by engaging the motor. Also disclosed is a cryogenic apparatus having a sample holder; a cryo-cooler; a thermal link connecting the sample holder and the cryo-cooler; and a motor attached to the sample holder for rotating a sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08307666&OS=08307666&RS=08307666
owner: S2 Corporation
number: 08307666
owner_city: Bozeman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100329
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from Provisional U.S. Patent Application 61 202 690 filed on Mar. 27 2009 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 461 529 filed Aug. 14 2009 entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR IMPROVING VIBRATION ISOLATION THERMAL DAMPENING AND OPTICAL ACCESS IN CRYOGENIC REFRIGERATORS the disclosure of which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 621 306 filed Nov. 18 2009 entitled VIBRATION REDUCING SAMPLE MOUNT WITH THERMAL COUPLING the disclosure of which is entirely incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DASG60 03 C 0075 awarded by the US ARMY SPACE MISSILE DEFENSE COMMAND. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This disclosure relates to low temperature cooling devices. Particularly this disclosure relates to a cryogenic apparatus having a motor and method for using the motor for providing rotational freedom and movement to a mounted sample attached to a cold finger in a cryogenic cooler.

Cryogen free refrigerators also called cryo coolers or cryostats utilize a closed cycle circulating refrigerant often helium gas to extract heat from a cold finger at cryogenic temperatures and pump it away to a heat exchanger. The cold finger is a metallic heat sink which is actively cooled by the refrigerant. The cold finger can be temperature controlled and serves as a mounting point for an object. The main goal of attaching the object to the cold finger is that the object will be cooled so that a user can use or make measurements on a cold sample. Objects to be cooled can include semiconductor devices detectors mechanisms material samples or any other objects that require fixed cryogenic temperature operation.

In conventional cryo coolers measurements on mounted samples using a laser are performed by movement of a laser beam on a stationary object. However this method has drawbacks such as difficult alignment of optical beams. An ideal solution to this problem would be to keep the laser motionless while rotating the mounted sample that is kept in thermal communication with its cryogenic surroundings.

In order to provide rotational freedom and movement to a mounted sample attached to a cold finger in a cryogenic cooler the present disclosure describes a miniature cryogenic motor added inside a cryogenic apparatus such as a gas exchange box GXB for spinning a sample and thermally maintaining it at cryogenic temperatures.

To overcome the above mentioned problems this disclosure identifies a method of rotating a sample for use in a cryocooler comprising mounting a sample in a sample mounting apparatus the apparatus comprising a housing having an outer wall surface an inner wall surface a mount attached to the inner wall surface for supporting the sample and a motor for rotating the sample and an exchange gas to provide thermal communication between the moving sample and the inner housing surfaces sealing the housing by applying a sealant to adjoining parts of the housing such that the joints between the parts do not allow gas to enter or leave the housing evacuating the housing adding an inert gas to the housing sealing the inert gas in the housing attaching the outer wall surface of the housing to a cryocooler and rotating the sample by engaging the motor.

Also disclosed is a cryogenic apparatus comprising a sample holder a cryo cooler a thermal link connecting the sample holder and the cryo cooler and a motor attached to the sample holder for rotating a sample.

Additional advantages and other features of the present disclosure will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from the practice of the disclosure. The advantages of the disclosure may be realized and obtained as particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

As will be realized the present disclosure is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects all without departing from the disclosure. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

The drawing figures depict one or more implementations in accord with the present teachings by way of example only not by way of limitation. In the figures like reference numerals refer to the same or similar elements.

The present disclosure is directed toward a method of rotating a sample for use in a cryo cooler comprising mounting a sample in a sample mounting apparatus. As shown in the sample is mounted in the sample mounting apparatus which comprises a housing having an outer wall surface for connecting to the cryo cooler not shown and an inner wall surface a mount attached to the inner wall surface of the housing for supporting a sample or and substantially preventing vibrations from being transferred to the sample or from the cryo cooler.

the housing is sealed by applying a sealant to adjoining parts of the housing such that the joints between the parts do not allow gas to enter or leave the housing . As is shown in the top vacuum seal plate and the side vacuum seal plate are sealed to the main body of the housing .

The housing is then evacuated by a single fill drain tube soldered in place into the fill and drain port which allows an access point that can be used to fill the apparatus with inert gas. The drain tube can then be crimped to seal the inert gas in the housing . An outer wall surface of the housing is then attached to a cryocooler see wherein the sample is then rotated by engaging the motor .

In one embodiment as shown in a conventional motor is used to rotate sample . Examples of a conventional motor are model Nos. AM  and AM  Dr. Fritz Faulhaber GmbH Co. KG Sch naich Germany . In the present method a motor capable of operating at cryogenic temperatures ideally satisfies multiple design parameters including consistency of rotation operation at cryogenic temperatures of 4 K small size and large sample capability. The available sample space in many very low temperature 4 K cryostats is limited. For example in one cryostat the space is 2.375 in. diameter by 2.5 in. long. Differential contraction of all the different employed materials must be balanced for cooling from 300 K environments to 4 K or lower. Fine tolerances such as gaps between cooled sample surfaces or and copper walls of the housing have been optimized to maximize conductive transport while allowing slop for any remaining unbalanced differential thermal contraction.

Bearing lubrication methods must be able to avoid freezing or seizing at cryogenic temperatures. Any known lubricant capable of operating at cryogenic temperatures is acceptable. It is also possible to use no lubricant for light sample loads when the bearing surfaces are clean but not so perfectly clean as to promote undesirable cold welding and seizing. Electrical feedthroughs are needed to control the motor that needs to be vacuum sealed electrically conductive and have low wire resistance in cooled areas where minimal loads from resistive heating can also be a problem.

In another embodiment a custom motor designed for cryogenic conditions is shown in . As with any electrical motor this embodiment has a first and second stator to provide rotational energy. The stators are mounted stationary and hold electrical coils which produce a rotating magnetic field pattern. The rotor which is mounted to the motor shaft is pressed on with magnets not shown pressed into it. The motor shaft which serves as a mount is supported by a bearing which in turn is supported by the center motor support and rear motor support . The motor shaft in addition to supporting the sample supports the shaft clamp the rotor and the press on collars which are located at each end of the sample. The motor also comprises magnetic shielding placed between the first stator and a center motor support and between a second stator and rear motor support . The stators are connected with stator spacers which fit in grooves in the stators.

The moving magnetic fields used in the motor are weakened when eddy currents are induced in nearby copper or other conductive materials which produces an opposing magnetic field. The countering field weakens the magnetic fields used by the motor s stator s and rotor s which decreases the rotating torque of the motor.

As a motor gets colder the resistance of copper decreases which enables eddy current electrons to move more easily and produce stronger countering magnetic fields that weaken the motor still further possibly so much as to have inadequate torque for operation. Ideally the materials used in and nearby the motor should be non conductive and non magnetic otherwise less conducting materials are preferred to more conductive ones.

As such problems with stray electromagnetic effects are reduced with the proper choice of base materials. In one embodiment motor parts are constructed out of aluminum alloy 6061 which is more resistive than high purity copper. Base materials have been metals however many materials could work as base materials such as plastics composites or ceramics. In other embodiments motors made of non conducting materials insulating materials or non magnetic materials are used to avoid the problems with electromagnetic effects.

Both the copper and aluminum motor also retain magnetic shielding for the stators which reduces eddy currents by redirecting the stray magnetic flux away from the nearby surfaces where eddy currents may be generated. The shielding also minimizes the magnetic field effects seen by the spinning sample.

Three principal factors for tolerancing were identified for manufacturing a sample or so that the sample or will spin evenly without kinetic disturbance during testing. Longitudinal motion along the axis of the custom motor or conventional motor results in a Doppler shift error in optical testing along that axis while pure transverse motion is not of direct concern unless it induces large vibrations in the assembly.

An important factor is that the sample or be mounted perpendicular to the axis of rotation which runs along the linear axis of the shaft . If it is mounted with a residual tilt the edge of the sample or will be seen to wobble once per rotation and an equivalent sinusoidal longitudinal oscillation as seen from the perspective of the optical beam. As an example a sample that is mounted 5 arc minutes off perpendicular to the shaft will correspond to a maximum displacement of 15 m. This displacement can cause a worst case Doppler shift of 1.1 kHz.

Bearings are used for two important purposes in the motor . They are used to 1 allow for rotational movement and 2 to isolate the sample from vibrations such as those created by a cold head. All versions of the motor have in. stainless steel shafts supported by bearings . These have been mainly used for ease of finding compatible bearings. Other sizes can be used and is not limited to in. shaft size. All shafts have been precision ground although this is not required. Precision grinding will allow for tight straightness and roundness tolerances.

In one embodiment a motor has a large glass sealed electrical feedthrough while other embodiments use two surface mount miniature connectors both having 12 pins that are mounted to opposite sides of a circuit board not shown which allows 12 different electrical feed through connections.

The motor can be used with the gas exchange box such as that described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 621 306. In one embodiment as shown in the housing comprises a main body and a removable end plate and the endplate is sealed to the main body with a sealant that can create an air tight seal. Examples of sealants are indium epoxy and solder. An inert gas sealed inside the housing may be any inert gas suitable for heat transfer in low temperature applications. In certain embodiments the inert gas is helium. In other embodiments nitrogen is used as the inert gas.

Alternatively as shown in the vibration reducing connector comprises a conventional jewel bearing for rotatably mounting a shaft to the inner wall surface in .

In another embodiment of the present disclosure such as shown in the housing further comprises a transparent window portion for optical access to the sample. However the window portion may also be used with the housing as shown in . The window portion can be sealed to the housing with any known sealant suitable for low temperature operations. In some embodiments an indium seal epoxy seal or glue is used for sealing the window portion . Each of these seal materials have their advantages and drawbacks. For example solder can be hard to apply to large perimeter seals due to the elevated working temperature. Indium can be difficult to work with due to pressure requirements needed for an effective pressed indium seal. Epoxy should only be used in very thin layers otherwise shear driven cracking or fatigue of the base material may occur due to differential thermal expansion or contraction. In certain embodiments the apparatus uses a mix of all three sealing options in different locations.

To prevent damage to the window the housing contains a housekeeper seal to accommodate the differences in size of materials due to thermal expansion. Any suitable material for cold temperature applications may be used for the housing . One example of a suitable material is copper. Advantages of using copper include that copper is readily solderable has high thermal conductivity and is fairly readily machineable.

According to one embodiment of the present disclosure the apparatus is sealed with an exchange gas such as helium trapped inside. The gas in the apparatus allows cooling of the sample or . The apparatus has a flange for sealing with a purging port a safety blow off valve in case of over pressurization a fill drain tube as shown in from which to perform the final fill and sealing of the apparatus via the fill drain port a basis for mounting the sample or and windows for optical access.

The apparatus is alternatively made of other materials such as aluminum steel brass plastic molded epoxy or composite materials having sufficient thermal conductivity.

Conventional housings have been sealed using a single fill drain tube soldered in place into the fill and drain port which allows an access point that can be used to fill the apparatus with helium then vacuumed out and repeated until the purity of the atmosphere inside the apparatus is at a suitable level. In this manner the purity of helium inside the apparatus increases in a geometric progression after each evacuation and refilling multiplied by a reasonable number of repetitions.

Mounting of a window onto an apparatus allows for optical access to a cooled sample or device with minimal birefringence created by strain from differing coefficient of thermal expansion CTE . Various methods have been developed to allow for optical access including seals made from epoxy solder or indium.

According to one embodiment window mounting is performed with a thin mounting flange that is machined into the window seat to relieve stresses induced from the housing. This rim is machined in to create a ledge for a window to sit in thus reducing the stress and strain that occur on the window while thermally cycling between about 300 K to about 4 K see . This method of stress relieving is known as a housekeeper seal . If the metal is thick around the mounted window it will shrink down when cooled and crush the window . Windows smaller than 0.5 in can be mounted directly into the housing often without undesired stress but for larger diameter windows a housekeeper seal is advised.

Windows can be soldered into place using a fluxless solder residual flux may contain acids or other compounds that undesirably degrade surfaces seals window coatings or delicate samples. Alternatively as shown in a thin layer of epoxy is used to seal windows. The epoxy layer must be of sufficient thinness in order to allow for thermal contraction forces to be small enough such that the window material is not under stress. When cooled epoxy will shrink causing stress on the window and crack it. The window optionally contains a metalized portion .

When sealing a window in place care is taken to make sure the epoxy layer is substantially even around the whole perimeter of the window . One method of accomplishing this is to epoxy the window in place and twist the window in the mount before the epoxy cures. This will allow the epoxy to flow into all crevices and fill any imperfections therefore creating an even layer.

When using epoxy all components should be cleaned thoroughly. The mating metal surface should be etched using some form of etching bath such as sodium persulfate . All mating surfaces should be cleaned with an acetone wipe followed by a methanol wipe. This is to ensure no residual oils are left on the surface and the combination of a clean etched surface will increase the strength of the epoxy bond.

In other embodiments a cryogenic apparatus comprises a sample holder a cryo cooler a thermal link connecting the sample holder and the cryo cooler and a motor attached to the sample holder for rotating a sample. One cryogenic apparatus is shown in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 461 529.

In other embodiments the apparatus comprises a nested thermally insulated structure NTIS serving as the sample holder. One example of the NTIS may also be found in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 461 529. As shown in the NTIS connects to a cryo cooler via the thermal links .

The cooled components within the cryostat are held in a vacuum environment maintained by a vacuum shroud as shown in . The bottom vacuum housing is a main housing for the NTIS and supports the upper vacuum housing and the coldhead . The vacuum plate is used to access the sample mounting volume or sample chamber . The upper vacuum housing is typically round aluminum tubing which is used to support the cryo cooler head . The adapter plate is made to attach to the upper vacuum housing to adapt the housing to the cryo cooler cold head that is desired for use. All parts typically operate at a temperature of 300 K.

The NTIS is designed to operate with a temperature gradient across it so that some parts of the assembly are at room temperature i.e. 300 K and other parts at a cryogenic temperature i.e. 4 K and the gradient across the parts between them creates an effective mode of operation. The nested design takes the layers of a thermally insulating material or materials and folds them to create a compact stiff structure.

As is shown in the radiation shield mount is connected to the middle thermally insulated tube via epoxy bonding where the structure now goes back in the opposite direction and in doing so creates an insulating gap. The middle insulating tube part is connected to tube coupler via epoxy bonding. The tube coupler is then connected to the inner thermally insulated tube via epoxy bonding. The inner thermally insulated tube is formed in the opposite direction again creating a second insulating gap and then is connected to via epoxy bonding and supports the sample mount . Sample mount at 4 K is connected via the low temperature thermal link portion to the low temperature cold finger which cools the plate shown in . A sample can be mounted to sample mount . The sample in this figure is connected to a motor . A radiation shield is used to minimize heat load between the outer and middle structure tubes and . Radiation shield also referred to as tubular radiation shield is at 40 K and thus reduces heat from radiation. A further removable radiation shield cap at 40 K is attached at the opening to the NTIS to block any radiation heat loads from the bottom.

The present disclosure can be practiced by employing conventional materials methodology and equipment. Accordingly the details of such materials equipment and methodology are not set forth herein in detail. In the previous descriptions numerous specific details are set forth such as specific materials structures chemicals processes etc. in order to provide a thorough understanding of the disclosure. However it should be recognized that the present disclosure can be practiced without resorting to the details specifically set forth. In other instances well known processing structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure.

Only a few examples of the present disclosure are shown and described herein. It is to be understood that the disclosure is capable of use in various other combinations and environments and is capable of changes or modifications within the scope of the inventive concepts as expressed herein.

