---

title: Communication infrastructure including simultaneous video pathways for multi-viewer support
abstract: A communication system is described that allows co-located viewers to simultaneously consume different media content, such as different video content, via the same display screen, wherein video content delivered to at least one co-located viewer is not visible to the other co-located viewer(s). The communication system comprises an infrastructure that includes multiple pathways for delivering media content from one or more media sources to the eyes of each of the co-located viewers, wherein each pathway passes through the pixels of a pixel array included in the shared display screen. The pathways also include distributed or non-distributed processing circuitry that manages certain resources that are shared among the multiple pathways, wherein such shared resources may include shared display resources (e.g., pixels of the pixel array and light generated thereby) and shared data communication resources (e.g., bandwidth on data communication links and processing resources of nodes located on such links).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09066092&OS=09066092&RS=09066092
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 09066092
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 291 818 filed on Dec. 31 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 303 119 filed on Feb. 10 2010. The entirety of each of these applications is incorporated by reference herein.

This application is also related to the following U.S. Patent Applications each of which also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 291 818 and 61 303 119 and each of which is incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 225 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Controlling a Pixel Array to Support an Adaptable Light Manipulator 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display with Adaptable Parallax Barrier 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 filed on even date herewith and entitled Coordinated Driving of Adaptable Light Manipulator Backlighting and Pixel Array in Support of Adaptable 2D and 3D Displays 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 062 filed on even date herewith and entitled Set top Box Circuitry that Supports Selective Delivery of 2D and 3D Content to Support a Viewing Environment 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 069 filed on even date herewith and entitled Three Dimensional Display System With Adaptation Based on Viewing Reference of Viewer s and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 078 filed on even date herewith and entitled Multiple Remote Controllers that Each Simultaneously Controls a Different Visual Presentation of a 2D 3D Display. 

The present invention generally relates to communication systems and associated infrastructures that facilitate the delivery of media content such as video content to co located viewers.

There are rising desires and expectations for personal and interactive media delivery that is causing dissatisfaction among co located viewers. For example co located viewers of a television must share a single display screen and typically a single remote control associated therewith. In such an environment the selection of particular media content e.g. particular video content by one viewer often leads to disputes and viewer dissatisfaction. Where the selected media content is interactive those who are not in control of the remote control and the interactivity decisions implemented therewith may become further dissatisfied. Additionally when one viewer invokes pause rewind and replay type functions during video playback this can prove annoying to other co located viewers. Likewise when one viewer utilizes the shared display screen to check other media or data e.g. e mail etc. during video playback this can annoy other co located viewers. Additionally the communication of widgets and such to accompany a video selection are often not tailored to all viewers. Similar problems exist for other devices having a single display screen such as computers smart phones and the like.

Certain televisions implement so called picture in picture PIP technology to allow two video streams to be viewed simultaneously via the same display screen. However this technology is less than optimal in that the PIP view is typically fixed in size smaller than desired and is presented at the expense of a portion of the larger view. Furthermore the PIP view is typically presented without accompanying audio.

Certain video games have been designed that partition a shared display space into different sections in order to accommodate views associated with multiple co located players. This approach is less than optimal in that each player must accept a fixed view of reduced size and also in that each player can see the views of the other players which can be confusing and lead to unfair game practices. This approach is also less than optimal in that although each player has their own view they do not have their own accompanying audio.

A communication system is described herein that allows co located viewers to simultaneously consume different media content such as different video content via the same display screen wherein video content delivered to at least one co located viewer is not visible to the other co located viewer s . The communication system comprises an infrastructure that includes multiple pathways for delivering media content from one or more media sources to the eyes of each of the co located viewers wherein each pathway passes through the pixels of a pixel array included in the shared display screen. The pathways also include distributed or non distributed processing circuitry that manages certain resources that are shared among the multiple pathways wherein such shared resources may include shared display resources e.g. pixels of the pixel array and light generated thereby and shared data communication resources e.g. bandwidth on data communication links and processing resources of nodes located on such links .

In certain embodiments the processing circuitry manages the shared resources by managing the utilization thereof to simultaneously support the multiple pathways. In further embodiments the processing circuitry manages the shared resources by setting up or modifying an allocation of a shared resource among the multiple pathways based on an ascertained characteristic associated with at least one of the pathways. The processing circuitry may be configured to receive feedback and or to gather pathway characteristics to facilitate resource allocation decisions. By simultaneously and adaptively managing each of the pathways the processing circuitry can provide a stable simultaneous multiple viewer viewing environment that can adapt over time as underlying pathway characteristics change. A communication system and infrastructure in accordance with the above are substantially as shown in and or described herein in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Additionally the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the drawing in which the reference number first appears.

The present specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of the invention. The disclosed embodiment s merely exemplify the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s . The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Furthermore it should be understood that spatial descriptions e.g. above below up left right down top bottom vertical horizontal etc. used herein are for purposes of illustration only and that practical implementations of the structures described herein can be spatially arranged in any orientation or manner.

A communication system is described herein that allows co located viewers to simultaneously consume different media content such as different video content via the same display screen wherein video content delivered to at least one co located viewer is not visible to the other co located viewer s . The communication system comprises an infrastructure that includes multiple pathways for delivering media content from one or more media sources to the eyes of each of the co located viewers wherein each pathway passes through the pixels of a pixel array included in the shared display screen. The pathways also include distributed or non distributed processing circuitry that manages certain resources that are shared among the multiple pathways wherein such shared resources may include shared display resources e.g. pixels of the pixel array and light generated thereby and shared data communication resources e.g. bandwidth on data communication links and processing resources of nodes located on such links .

In certain embodiments the processing circuitry manages the shared resources by managing the utilization thereof to simultaneously support the multiple pathways. In further embodiments the processing circuitry manages the shared resources by setting up or modifying an allocation of a shared resource among the multiple pathways based on an ascertained characteristic associated with at least one of the pathways. The processing circuitry may be configured to receive feedback and or to gather pathway characteristics to facilitate resource allocation decisions. By simultaneously and adaptively managing each of the pathways the processing circuitry can provide a stable simultaneous multiple viewer viewing environment that can adapt over time as underlying pathway characteristics change.

Before describing example communication systems that allow co located viewers to simultaneously consume different media content via the same display screen various exemplary screen assemblies that support such simultaneous viewing will first be described. The various screen assemblies described in this section rely on spatial filtering by one or more light manipulators e.g. parallax barriers or lenticular lenses to support the simultaneous viewing of different media content by different viewers. However as will be noted in a subsequent section communication systems in accordance with embodiments may include screen assemblies that utilize other mechanisms for facilitating such simultaneous viewing e.g. such as those designed for use in conjunction with shutter glasses .

Pixel array comprises a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged as a grid or other distribution that operates to emit light . Pixel array may comprise a self illuminating or light generating pixel array such that the pixels of pixel array each emit light included in light . Alternatively each pixel in pixel array may operate to selectively pass light emitted by a backlighting source not shown in to produce light . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary color and intensity. In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Adaptable parallax barrier is positioned proximate to a surface of pixel array . Barrier element array is a layer of adaptable parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Combinations of barrier elements may be configured to be selectively opaque or transparent to enable various effects. For example the states of the barrier elements of barrier element array may be configured such that light emanating from pixel array is filtered to produce filtered light wherein filtered light includes one or more two dimensional and or three dimensional images that may be viewed by viewers in a viewing space .

Depending upon the implementation each barrier element may have a round square or rectangular shape and barrier element array may have any number of rows of barrier elements that extend a vertical length of barrier element array . In another embodiment each barrier element may have a band shape that extends a vertical length of barrier element array such that barrier element array includes a single horizontal row of barrier elements. Each barrier element may include one or more of such bands and different regions of barrier element array may include barrier elements that include different numbers of such bands.

It is noted that in some embodiments barrier elements may be capable of being completely transparent or opaque and in other embodiments barrier elements may not be capable of being fully transparent or opaque. For instance such barrier elements may be capable of being 95 transparent when considered to be transparent and may be capable of being 5 transparent when considered to be opaque. Transparent and opaque as used herein are intended to encompass barrier elements being substantially transparent e.g. greater than 75 transparent including completely transparent and substantially opaque e.g. less than 25 transparent including completely opaque respectively.

Driver circuitry receives control signals from control circuitry not shown in . The control signals cause driver circuitry to place screen assembly in a selected one of a plurality of different viewing configurations. In particular based on control signals adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry transmits drive signals that cause barrier element array to be placed in a state that supports the selected viewing configuration. The selected viewing configuration may be a particular two dimensional viewing configuration a particular three dimensional viewing configuration or a viewing configuration that supports the simultaneous display of different types of two dimensional and or three dimensional content.

For example shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier that supports a particular three dimensional viewing configuration. Adaptable parallax barrier is an example of adaptable parallax barrier of . As shown in adaptable parallax barrier includes a barrier element array which includes a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. Furthermore as shown in barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a plurality of parallel non blocking strips or slits . As shown in parallel non blocking strips non blocking slits are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements that are selected to be blocking. In the example of non blocking strips and blocking strips each have a width along the x dimension of two barrier elements and have lengths that extend along the entire y dimension twenty barrier elements of barrier element array although in other embodiments may have alternative dimensions. Non blocking strips and blocking strips form a parallax barrier configuration for adaptable parallax barrier . The spacing and number of parallel non blocking strips in barrier element array may be selectable by choosing any number and combination of particular strips of barrier elements in barrier element array to be non blocking to be alternated with blocking strips as desired. For example hundreds thousands or even larger numbers of non blocking strips and blocking strips may be present in adaptable parallax barrier .

Each of adaptable parallax barriers and configured in the manner shown in respectively filter light produced or passed by a pixel array to form one or more three dimensional views in a viewing space thus supporting a three dimensional viewing configuration. To achieve a two dimensional viewing configuration all of the barrier elements of either adaptable parallax barrier or can simply be placed in a non blocking state. Additional details concerning how the adaptable parallax barriers operate to support such three dimensional viewing may be found for example in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display with Adaptable Parallax Barrier the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In the adaptable parallax barrier configurations shown in the entirety of the barrier element array is filled with parallel non blocking strips to support three dimensional viewing. In further embodiments one or more regions of an adaptable parallax barrier may be filled with parallel non blocking strips to deliver three dimensional images and one or more other regions of the adaptable parallax barrier may be rendered transparent to deliver two dimensional images. Thus a viewing configuration that mixes two dimensional and three dimensional viewing regions may be supported.

For instance shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier that supports a viewing configuration that mixes two dimensional and three dimensional viewing regions according to example embodiments. Adaptable parallax barrier is similar to adaptable parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. In a first region of barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips that together fill first region . A second region of barrier element array is surrounded by first region . Second region is a rectangular shaped region of barrier element array that includes a two dimensional array of barrier elements that are non blocking. Thus in barrier element array is configured to enable a three dimensional image to be generated by pixels of a pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements of first region and to enable a two dimensional image to be generated by pixels of the pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements inside of second region . Note that alternatively first region may include all non blocking barrier elements to pass a two dimensional image and second region may include parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips to pass a three dimensional image. In further embodiments adaptable parallax barrier may have additional numbers sizes and arrangements of regions configured to pass different combinations of two dimensional images and three dimensional images.

In still further embodiments different regions of an adaptable parallax barrier that have parallel non blocking strips may have the parallel non blocking strips oriented at different angles to deliver three dimensional images to viewers that are oriented differently. Thus a viewing configuration that mixes three dimensional viewing regions having different viewing orientations may be supported.

For example shows an arrangement of an adaptable parallax barrier in which transparent slits have different orientations according to an example embodiment. Adaptable parallax barrier is similar to adaptable parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. A first region e.g. a bottom half of barrier element array includes a first plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a first plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of two barrier elements . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of three barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a first direction e.g. along a vertical axis .

Furthermore as shown in a second region e.g. a top half of barrier element array includes a second plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a second plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of one barrier element . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of two barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a second direction e.g. along a horizontal axis .

As such in first and second pluralities of parallel non blocking strips and are present in barrier element array that are oriented perpendicularly to each other. The region of barrier element array that includes first plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented vertically e.g. sitting upright or standing up . The region of barrier element array that includes second plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented horizontally e.g. laying down . In this manner users who are oriented differently relative to each other can still each be provided with a corresponding three dimensional image that accommodates their position.

Additional adaptable parallax barrier implementations and arrangements thereof that support mixed two dimensional and or three dimensional viewing regions are described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D and Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Display system may be further configured to simultaneously generate multiple two dimensional images or views for viewing by different viewers in a viewing space. For example shows a display system configured to simultaneously deliver two different two dimensional images to two different viewers respectively in accordance with an embodiment. Display system may comprise one implementation of display system of . As shown in display system includes a pixel array and a barrier element array . Pixel array includes a plurality of pixels and . Pixels alternate with pixels such that pixels and are arranged in series in the order of pixels and . Further pixels may be included in pixel array that are not visible in including further pixels along the width dimension of pixel array e.g. in the left right directions as well as pixels along a length dimension of pixel array not visible in . Each of pixels and emits light which emanates from a display surface of pixel array e.g. generally upward in towards barrier element array . Some example indications of light emanating from pixels and are shown in as dotted lines including light and light emanating from pixel light light and light emanating from pixel etc.

Light emanating from pixel array is filtered by barrier element array to form a plurality of images in a viewing space including a first image at a first location and a second image at a second location . A portion of the light emanating from pixel array is blocked by blocking barrier elements while another portion of the light emanating from pixel array passes through non blocking barrier elements according to the filtering by barrier element array . For instance light from pixel is blocked by blocking barrier element and light and light from pixel are blocked by blocking barrier elements and respectively. In contrast light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element and light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element

System shown in is configured to form first and second images and at locations and respectively which are positioned at a distance from pixel array . As described above pixel array includes a first set of pixels and a second set of pixels . Pixels correspond to first image and pixels correspond to second image . Due to the spacing of pixels and in pixel array and the geometry of non blocking barrier elements in barrier element array first and second images and are formed at locations and respectively. As shown in light from the first set of pixels is focused at location to form first image at location . Light from the second set of pixels is focused at location to form second image at location

As shown in a first viewer receives first image at first location and a second viewer receives second image at second location according to an example embodiment. First and second images and may each comprise a different two dimensional image that may be viewed independently from each other. For instance first image and second image may be generated by display system from first media content and second media content respectively that are independent of each other. First image may be received by both eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first two dimensional image and second image may be received by both eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second two dimensional image. Thus first and second images and may be generated to have a spacing that enables them to be separately viewed by first and second users and . Furthermore first and second images and may be delivered to different viewer locations as determined by a configuration of display system including a width and spacing of non blocking slits in barrier element array and by a spacing between pixel array and barrier element array .

In accordance with the foregoing display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array barrier element array and or display screen of display system that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of images or views. In the embodiment of the single viewing plane of display system may provide a first two dimensional view based on first two dimensional media content to first viewer and may provide a second two dimensional view based on second two dimensional media content to second viewer . Barrier element array causes the first media content to be presented to first viewer via a first area of the single viewing plane but not to second viewer while simultaneously causing the second media content to be presented to second viewer via a second area of the single viewing plane but not to first viewer . Furthermore the first area and second area of the single viewing plane that provide the first and second media content overlap each other at least in part as barrier element array enables both two dimensional views to be provided from first set of pixels and second set of pixels which are interleaved with each other. In accordance with certain configurations of display system the first and second areas may be the same area and the area may encompass the entirety of the display screen or surface of display system or only a region of the display screen or surface of display system .

Still further the configuration of display system in may be used to deliver separate three dimensional content to first and second viewers and . As such display system is capable of delivering multiple three dimensional views to viewers. For example in an embodiment first and second viewers and may each wear a pair of 3D enabled glasses and the first and second media content associated with first and second images and respectively may be three dimensional media content. In one embodiment the 3D enabled glasses may be color filtering glasses. The color filter lenses of the glasses worn by first viewer may pass two dimensional images included in first image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first three dimensional image. Likewise the color filter lenses of the glasses worn by second viewer may pass two dimensional images included in second image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second three dimensional image. In another embodiment the 3D enabled glasses may be shutter lensed glasses. The shutter lenses of the glasses worn by first viewer may be synchronized to pass two dimensional images included in first image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first three dimensional image. Likewise the shutter lenses of the glasses worn by second viewer may be synchronized to pass two dimensional images included in second image of differing perspective to the left and right eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second three dimensional image.

As such display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array or barrier element array that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of three dimensional images or views. The single viewing plane of display system may provide a first three dimensional view based on first three dimensional media content to first viewer and may provide a second three dimensional view based on second three dimensional media content to second viewer . Barrier element array causes the first three dimensional media content to be presented to first viewer via a first area of the single viewing plane but not to second viewer while simultaneously causing the second three dimensional media content to be presented to second viewer via a second area of the single viewing plane but not to first viewer . Furthermore the first area and second area of the single viewing plane that provide the first and second media content overlap each other at least in part as barrier element array enables both three dimensional views to be provided from first set of pixels and second set of pixels which are interleaved with each other. In accordance with certain configurations of display system the first and second areas may be the same area and the area may encompass the entirety of the display screen or surface of display system or only a region of the display screen or surface of display system .

As such display system can be configured to deliver a single two dimensional or three dimensional view to a viewer to deliver a pair of two dimensional views to a pair of viewers or to deliver a pair of three dimensional views to a pair of viewers. Display system can be configured to switch between delivering views to one and two viewers by turning off or turning on respectively the display of media content by pixel array associated with one of the viewers e.g. by turning off or on pixels associated with second image . Display system can be configured to switch between delivering two dimensional and three dimensional views by providing the corresponding media content type at pixel array .

Display systems in accordance with further embodiments may include multiple layers of parallax barriers. Such display systems may enable multiple three dimensional images to be displayed in a viewing space. The multiple parallax barrier layers may enable spatial separation of the images. For instance in accordance with one embodiment a display device that includes multiple parallax barrier layers may be configured to display a first three dimensional image in a first region of a viewing space e.g. a left side area a second three dimensional image in a second region of the viewing space e.g. a central area a third three dimensional image in a third region of the viewing space e.g. a right side area etc. In fact a display device that includes multiple parallax barrier layers may be configured to display any number of spatially separated three dimensional images as desired for a particular application e.g. according to a number and spacing of viewers in the viewing space etc. .

Light is received at first parallax barrier from pixel array . Pixel array may comprise a self illuminating or light generating pixel array such that the pixels of pixel array each emit light included in light . Alternatively each pixel in pixel array may operate to selectively pass light emitted by a backlighting source not shown in to produce light . Pixel array driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on a control signal received from control circuitry not shown in and pixel array may emit light in accordance with the received drive signals . In an embodiment pixel array driver circuitry may generate drive signals to cause pixel array to emit light containing a plurality of images corresponding to different sets of pixels.

First parallax barrier may be configured to filter light received from pixel array . As shown in first parallax barrier includes first barrier element array that filters light to generate filtered light . First barrier element array may optionally be configurable to adjust the filtering performed by first parallax barrier in a similar manner to that described above in regard to adaptable parallax barrier or in another manner. In an embodiment parallax barrier driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on control signal received by driver circuitry to cause first barrier element array to filter light as desired.

Filtered light is received by second parallax barrier to generate filtered light that includes a plurality of three dimensional images formed in a viewing space . As shown in second parallax barrier includes second barrier element array that filters filtered light to generate filtered light . Second barrier element array may optionally be configurable to adjust the filtering performed by second parallax barrier in a similar manner to that described above in regard to adaptable parallax barrier or in another manner. In an embodiment parallax barrier driver circuitry may generate drive signals based on control signal to cause barrier element array to filter filtered light to generate filtered light including three dimensional images as desired.

As such display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array first parallax barrier second parallax barrier or a display screen of display system that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of three dimensional images or views. The single viewing plane of display system may provide a first three dimensional view based on first three dimensional media content to a first viewer a second three dimensional view based on second three dimensional media content to a second viewer and optionally further three dimensional views based on further three dimensional media content to further viewers. First and second parallax barrier and cause each three dimensional media content to be presented to a corresponding viewer via a corresponding area of the single viewing plane with each viewer being enabled to view corresponding media content without viewing media content directed to other viewers. Furthermore the areas of the single viewing plane that provide the various three dimensional views of media content overlap each other at least in part. In the embodiment of the areas may be the same area an area of a display screen or surface of display system . In accordance with certain configurations of display system the areas may be the same area and the area may encompass the entirety of the display screen or surface of display system or only a region of the display screen or surface of display system .

Display system may be configured in various ways to generate multiple three dimensional images in embodiments. Furthermore as described below embodiments of display system may be configured to generate two dimensional views as well as any combination of one or more two dimensional views simultaneously with one or more three dimensional views. Examples of such embodiments are provided in the following.

As shown in the example of pixel array includes a first set of pixels a second set of pixels a third set of pixels and a fourth set of pixels . Pixels of the four sets of pixels are alternated in pixel array in the order of pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel etc. Further pixels may be included in each set of pixels in pixel array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of pixels in each set of pixels.

Each of pixels and is configured to emit light which emanates from the surface of pixel array towards first barrier element array . Each set of pixels is configured to generate a corresponding image. For example shows display system where pixels of pixel array emit light. Light from second set of pixels and first set of pixels is configured to generate third and fourth images and respectively which may be perceived together as a second three dimensional image by a second viewer . Light from fourth set of pixels and third set of pixels is configured to generate first and second images and respectively which may be perceived together as a first three dimensional image by a first viewer . The light emitted by the sets of pixels is filtered by first and second barrier element arrays and to generate the first and second three dimensional images in respective desired regions of a viewing space adjacent to display system .

For instance in the example of four images are formed in viewing space including first fourth images . Pixels correspond to fourth image pixels correspond to third image pixels correspond to second image and pixels correspond to first image . As shown in light from the first set of pixels forms fourth image and light from the third set of pixels forms second image due to the filtering of the non blocking slits in first and second barrier element arrays and . In a similar fashion light from the second set of pixels forms third image and light from the fourth set of pixels forms first image

In the embodiment of first and second images and may be configured to be perceived by viewer as a first three dimensional image such that first image is received at a right eye location of viewer and second image is received at a left eye location of viewer e.g. separated by an interocular distance . Furthermore third and fourth images and may be configured to be perceived by viewer as a second three dimensional image such that third image is received at a right eye location of viewer and fourth image is received at a second eye location of viewer

First fourth images may be formed in viewing space at a distance from pixel array and at a lateral location of viewing space as determined by a configuration of display system including by a width and spacing of non blocking slits in first barrier element array by a width and positioning of non blocking slits in second barrier element array by a spacing between pixel array and first barrier element array and a spacing between first and second barrier element arrays and .

Furthermore although shown in as simultaneously delivering first and second three dimensional views to viewers and display system may deliver a two dimensional view to one of viewers and and may simultaneously deliver a three dimensional view to the other of viewers and . For example pixels and pixels may deliver the same images e.g. may display the same media content such that third and fourth images and are the same. As such because second viewer receives the same view at each of right and left eye locations and second viewer perceives third and fourth images and as a single two dimensional view. In another embodiment to provide a two dimensional view to viewer pixels may be turned off and a width of slits and may be adjusted such that pixels deliver a same view to both right and left eye locations and of viewer through slits . While second viewer is being delivered a two dimensional view first and second images and may be simultaneously delivered to first viewer as differing perspective images to be perceived as a three dimensional view or as the same image to be perceived as a second two dimensional view.

Still further if it is desired for display system to deliver a single two dimensional or three dimensional view e.g. one of viewers and is no longer participating one or both of first barrier element array and second barrier element array may be turned off For instance to deliver a two dimensional view to a viewer first barrier element array and second barrier element array may each transition all of their corresponding barrier elements to the non blocking state be turned off and pixel array may be configured to emit a single two dimensional image. To deliver a three dimensional view to a viewer one of first barrier element array and second barrier element array may transition all of its barrier elements to the non blocking state while the other of first barrier element array and second barrier element array may be configured to deliver a three dimensional view.

Additional details concerning display systems that utilize adaptable light manipulators such as adaptable parallax barriers to support the simultaneous presentation of different two dimensional and or three dimensional views to different viewers are provided in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 filed on Jul. 28 2010 and entitled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

As noted above a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier of display system or a configuration of either of first and second parallax barrier and of display system can be dynamically modified to support a particular viewing configuration. To further support the viewing configuration the pixel array of each system must also be controlled to support the same viewing configuration. This concept will now be further described with continued reference to display system of although persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that the concept is equally applicable to display system of and other display systems having adaptable light manipulators such as adaptable parallax barriers.

When a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier of display system is modified to support a particular viewing configuration pixel array must also be controlled to support the same viewing configuration. In particular the rendering of pixels of an image also referred to herein as image pixels among the pixels of pixel array also referred to herein as display pixels must be handled in a manner that is consistent with a current configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . This may entail for example changing a number of display pixels that represents each image pixel i.e. changing the resolution of a displayed image and or changing which display pixels or groups thereof correspond to the respective image pixels i.e. changing the locations at which the image pixels are displayed in response to modification of a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . Such changes may be implemented by a controller not shown in via delivery of appropriate control signals to pixel array driver circuitry .

For example in one embodiment when a configuration of adaptable parallax barrier supports a first viewing configuration responsive to control signals pixel array driver circuitry sends drive signals in conformance with control signals such that the rendering of images to pixel array occurs in a manner that also supports the first viewing configuration. Furthermore when the configuration of adaptable parallax barrier is modified to support a second viewing configuration responsive to control signals pixel array driver circuitry sends drive signals in conformance with the control signals such that the rendering of images to pixel array occurs in a manner that also supports the second viewing configuration.

Numerous other methods may be used to control the rendering of image pixels to display pixels in support of a desired two dimensional and or three dimensional viewing configuration implemented by one or more adaptable parallax barriers or other adaptable light manipulator s . Additional details concerning such control of a pixel array may be found in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 225 filed on May 5 2010 and entitled Controlling a Pixel Array to Support an Adaptable Light Manipulator the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. 

Light generator emits light . Adaptable parallax barrier is positioned proximate to light generator . Barrier element array is a layer of adaptable parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Barrier element array filters light received from light generator to generate filtered light . Filtered light is configured to enable a two dimensional image a three dimensional image or a pair of two dimensional or three dimensional images to be formed based on images subsequently imposed on filtered light by pixel array .

Pixel array includes a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged in a grid or other distribution like pixel array of . Pixel array is not self illuminating and operates as a light filter that imposes images e.g. in the form of color grayscale etc. on filtered light from adaptable parallax barrier to generate filtered light to include one or more images. Each pixel of pixel array may be a separately addressable filter e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary the color imposed on the corresponding light passing through and or to vary the intensity of the passed light in filtered light . In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Driver circuitry receives control signals from control circuitry not shown in . Control signals cause driver circuitry to place screen in a selected one of a plurality of different viewing configurations. In particular based on control signals adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry transmits drive signals that cause barrier element array to be placed in a state that supports the selected viewing configuration. Likewise based on control signals pixel array driver circuitry transmits drive signals to cause pixels of one or more images also referred to herein as image pixels to be rendered among the pixels of pixel array also referred to herein as display pixels in a manner that is consistent with a current configuration of adaptable parallax barrier . The selected viewing configuration may be a particular two dimensional viewing configuration a particular three dimensional viewing configuration or a viewing configuration that supports the simultaneous display of different types of two dimensional and or three dimensional content.

As discussed in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 A05.01210000 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein conventional LCD displays typically include a backlight and a display panel that includes an array of LCD pixels. The backlight is designed to produce a sheet of light of uniform luminosity for illuminating the LCD pixels. When simultaneously displaying two dimensional three dimensional and multi view three dimensional regions using an adaptable parallax barrier such as that described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 the use of a conventional backlight will result in a disparity in perceived brightness between the different simultaneously displayed regions. This is because the number of visible pixels per unit area associated with a two dimensional region will generally exceed the number of visible pixels per unit area associated with a particular three dimensional or multi view three dimensional region in which the pixels must be partitioned among different eyes views .

To address this issue light generator includes a backlight array which is a two dimensional array of light sources. Such light sources may be arranged for example in a rectangular grid. Each light source in backlight array is individually addressable and controllable to select an amount of light emitted thereby. A single light source may comprise one or more light emitting elements depending upon the implementation. In one embodiment each light source in backlight array comprises a single light emitting diode LED although this example is not intended to be limiting.

The amount of light emitted by the individual light sources that make up backlight array can selectively controlled by drive signals generated by light generator driver circuitry so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions of screen can also be controlled. This enables display system to provide a desired brightness level for each display region automatically and or in response to user input. For example backlight array can be controlled such that a uniform level of brightness is achieved across different simultaneously displayed display regions even though the number of perceptible pixels per unit area varies from display region to display region. As another example backlight array can be controlled such that the level of brightness associated with a particular display region is increased or reduced without impacting or without substantially impacting the brightness of other simultaneously displayed display regions.

To help illustrate this provides an exploded view of a display system that implements a controllable backlight array as described immediately above. Display system comprises one implementation of display system . As shown in display system includes a light generator that includes a backlight array an adaptable parallax barrier that includes a barrier element array and a display panel that includes a pixel array . These elements may be aligned with and positioned proximate to each other to create an integrated screen assembly.

In accordance with the example configuration shown in a first portion of pixel array and a first portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a first display region that displays multi view three dimensional content a second portion of pixel array and a second portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a second display region that displays a three dimensional image and a third portion of of pixel array and a third portion of barrier element array have been manipulated to create a third display region that displays a two dimensional image. To independently control the brightness of each of the first second and third display regions the amount of light emitted by light sources included within a first portion a second portion and a third portion of backlight array can respectively be controlled. For example the light sources within first portion may be controlled to provide greater luminosity than the light sources within second portion and third portion as the number of perceivable pixels per unit area will be smallest in the first display region with which first portion is aligned. In further accordance with this example the light sources within second portion may be controlled to provide greater luminosity than the light sources within third portion since the number of perceivable pixels per unit area will be smaller in the second display region with which second portion is aligned than the third display region with which third portion is aligned. Of course if uniform luminosity is not desired across the various display regions then other control schemes may be used.

Of course the arrangement shown in provides only a single teaching example. It should be noted that a display system in accordance with an embodiment can dynamically manipulate pixel array and barrier element array in a coordinated fashion to dynamically and simultaneously create any number of display regions of different sizes and in different locations wherein each of the created display regions can display one of two dimensional three dimensional or multi view three dimensional content. To accommodate this backlight array can also be dynamically manipulated in a coordinated fashion with pixel array and barrier element array to ensure that each display region is perceived at a desired level of brightness.

In the arrangement shown in there is a one to one correspondence between each light source in backlight array and every display pixel in pixel array . However this need not be the case to achieve regional brightness control. For example in certain embodiments the number of light sources provided in backlight array is less than the number of pixels provided in pixel array . For instance in one embodiment a single light source may be provided in backlight array for every N pixels provided in pixel array wherein N is an integer greater than 1. In an embodiment in which the number of light sources in backlight array is less than the number of pixels in pixel array each light source may be arranged so that it provides backlighting for a particular group of pixels in pixel array although this is only an example. In alternate embodiments the number of light sources provided in backlight array is greater than the number of pixels provided in pixel array .

Also in the examples described above light sources in backlight array are described as being individually controllable. However in alternate embodiments light sources in backlight array may only be controllable in groups. This may facilitate a reduction in the complexity of the control infrastructure associated with backlight array . In still further embodiments light sources in backlight array may be controllable both individually and in groups.

It is also noted that although show display system configurations in which a barrier element array of an adaptable parallax barrier is disposed between a backlight array of individually addressable and controllable light sources and a pixel array in alternate implementations the pixel array may be disposed between the backlight array and the barrier element array. Such an alternate implementation is shown in . In particular is a block diagram of a display system that includes a pixel array disposed between a light generator that includes a backlight array and an adaptable parallax barrier that includes a barrier element array to support the generation of two dimensional and or three dimensional images perceivable in a viewing space . In such alternate implementations selective control of the luminosity of groups or individual ones of the light sources in backlight array may also be used to vary the backlighting luminosity associated with different display regions created by the interaction of backlight array pixel array and barrier element array .

Other example display system implementations that utilize a backlight array of independently controllable light sources are described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 A05.01210000 filed on even date herewith and entitled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier. That application also describes other approaches for controlling the brightness of different simultaneously displayed display regions of a display system. Some of these approaches will be described below.

For example to achieve independent region by region brightness control in a display system that includes a conventional backlight panel designed to produce a sheet of light of uniform luminosity the amount of light passed by the individual pixels that make up a pixel array can be selectively controlled so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions can also be controlled. To help illustrate this provides an exploded view of a display system that implements a regional brightness control scheme based on pixel intensity as described immediately above. As shown in display system includes a display panel and an adaptable parallax barrier . Display system also includes a backlight panel although this element is not shown in . These elements may be aligned with and positioned proximate to each other to create an integrated display screen.

As further shown in display panel includes a pixel array . Each of the pixels in a first portion of pixel array is individually controlled by pixel array driver circuitry to pass a selected amount of light produced by a backlight panel not shown in thereby producing display generated light representative of a single two dimensional image. Each of the pixels in a second portion of pixel array is individually controlled by the pixel array driver circuitry to pass a selected amount of light produced by the backlight panel thereby producing display generated light representative of two two dimensional images that when combined by the brain of a viewer positioned in an appropriate location relative to display system will be perceived as a single three dimensional image.

Adaptable parallax barrier includes barrier element array that includes a first portion and a second portion . Barrier element array is aligned with pixel array such that first portion of blocking region array overlays first portion of pixel array and second portion of blocking region array overlays second portion of pixel array . Adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry causes all the barrier elements within first portion of barrier element array to be transparent. Thus the two dimensional image generated by the pixels of first portion of pixel array will simply be passed through to a viewer in a viewing space in front of display system . Furthermore the adaptable parallax barrier driver circuitry manipulates the barrier elements within second portion of blocking region array to form a plurality of parallel transparent strips alternated with parallel opaque strips thereby creating a parallax effect that enables the two two dimensional images generated by the pixels of second portion of pixel array to be perceived as a three dimensional image by a viewer in the viewing space in front of display system .

Assume that a viewer is positioned such that he she can perceive both the two dimensional image passed by first portion of barrier element array and the three dimensional image formed through parallax by second portion of barrier element . As discussed above the pixels per unit area perceived by this viewer with respect to the two dimensional image will be greater than the pixels per unit area perceived by this viewer with respect to the three dimensional image. Thus the two dimensional image will appear brighter to the viewer than the three dimensional image when backlighting of constant luminosity is provided behind pixel array .

To address this issue drive signals may be transmitted to display panel that selectively cause the pixels included in first portion of pixel array to pass less light from the backlight panel i.e. become less intense thereby reducing the brightness of the two dimensional image produced from the pixels in first portion of pixel array . Alternatively or additionally drive signals may be transmitted to display panel that selectively cause the pixels included in second portion of pixel array to pass more light from the backlight panel i.e. become more intense thereby increasing the brightness of the three dimensional image produced from the pixels in second portion of pixel array . By controlling the intensity of the pixels in portions and of pixel array in this manner the brightness of the two dimensional image produced from the pixels in first portion of pixel array and the brightness of the three dimensional image produced from the pixels in second portion of pixel array can be kept consistent. Additionally by providing independent control over the intensity of the pixels in portions and of pixel array independent control over the brightness of the two dimensional and three dimensional images generated therefrom can also be achieved.

Of course the arrangement shown in provides only a single teaching example. It should be noted that a display system in accordance with an embodiment can dynamically manipulate pixel array and blocking element array in a coordinated fashion to dynamically and simultaneously create any number of display regions of different sizes and in different locations wherein each of the created display regions can display one of two dimensional three dimensional or multi view three dimensional content. To accommodate this the intensity of the pixels in pixel array can also be dynamically manipulated in a coordinated fashion to ensure that each display region is perceived at a desired level of brightness.

In one embodiment a regional brightness control scheme combines the use of a backlight array of independently controllable light sources as previously described with regional pixel intensity control. The advantages of such a control scheme will now be described with reference to . illustrates a front perspective view of a display panel . Display panel includes a pixel array that includes a first portion and a second portion wherein each of first portion and second portion includes a different subset of the pixels in pixel array . It is to be assumed that first portion of pixel array is illuminated by backlighting provided by an aligned first portion of a backlight array not shown in wherein the backlight array is similar to backlight array described above in reference to . Second portion of pixel array is illuminated by backlighting provided by an aligned second portion of the backlight array. In one example the amount of light emitted by each light source in the second portion of the backlight array to illuminate second portion of pixel array is controlled such that it is greater than the amount of light emitted by each light source in the first portion of the backlight array to illuminate first portion of pixel array . This control scheme may be applied for example to cause a three dimensional image formed by interaction between the pixels in second portion of pixel array and an adaptable parallax barrier to appear to have a uniform brightness level with respect to a two dimensional image formed by interaction between the pixels in first portion of pixel array and the adaptable parallax barrier.

However the difference in the amount of light emitted by each light source in the first and second portions of the backlight array to illuminate corresponding first and second portions and of pixel array may also give rise to undesired visual artifacts. In particular the difference may cause pixels in boundary areas immediately outside of second portion of pixel array to appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in first portion of pixel array . For example as shown in the pixels in boundary area immediately outside of second portion of pixel array may appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in first portion of pixel array . This may be due to the fact that the increased luminosity provided by the light sources in the second portion of the backlight array has spilled over to impact the pixels in boundary area causing those pixels to be brighter than desired. Conversely the difference may cause pixels in boundary areas immediately inside of second portion of pixel array to appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in second portion of pixel array . For example as shown in the pixels in boundary area immediately inside of second portion of pixel array may appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in second portion of pixel array . This may be due to the fact that the reduced luminosity of the light sources in the first portion of the backlight array has spilled over to impact the pixels in boundary area causing those pixels to be dimmer than desired.

To address this issue an embodiment may selectively control the amount of light passed by the pixels located in boundary region and or boundary region to compensate for the undesired visual effects. For example driver circuitry associated with pixel array may selectively cause the pixels included in boundary area of pixel array to pass less light from the backlight panel i.e. become less intense thereby reducing the brightness of the pixels in boundary area thus compensating for an undesired increase in brightness due to spill over from light sources in the second portion of the backlight array. Alternatively or additionally driver circuitry associated with pixel array may selectively cause the pixels included in boundary area of pixel array to pass more light from the backlight panel i.e. become more intense thereby increasing the brightness of the pixels in boundary area thus compensating for an undesired reduction in brightness due to spill over from light sources in the first portion of the backlight array. By controlling the intensity of the pixels in boundary areas and or in this manner the undesired visual effects described above that can arise from the use of a backlight array to provide regional brightness control can be mitigated or avoided entirely.

The illustration provided in provides only one example of undesired visual effects that can arise from the use of a backlight array to provide regional brightness control. Persons skilled in the relevant art s will appreciate that many different display regions having many different brightness characteristics can be simultaneously generated by a display system in accordance with embodiments thereby giving rise to different undesired visual effects relating to the brightness of boundary areas inside and outside of the different display regions. In each case the intensity of pixels located in such boundaries areas can be selectively increased or reduced to mitigate or avoid such undesired visual effects.

In additional embodiments a regional brightness control scheme is implemented in a display system that does not include a backlight panel at all but instead utilizes a display panel comprising an array of organic light emitting diodes OLEDs or polymer light emitting diodes PLEDs which function as display pixels and also provide their own illumination. Display system described above in reference to may be representative of such a system provided that pixel array comprises an array of OLEDs or PLEDs. In accordance with such an implementation the amount of light emitted by the individual OLED PLED pixels that make up the OLED PLED pixel array can be selectively controlled so that the brightness associated with each of a plurality of display regions of display system can also be controlled. This enables display system to provide a desired brightness level for each display region automatically and or in response to user input. For example the OLED PLED pixel array can be controlled such that a uniform level of brightness is achieved across different simultaneously displayed display regions even though the number of perceptible pixels per unit area varies from display region to display region. As another example the OLED PLED pixel array can be controlled such that the level of brightness associated with a particular display region is increased or reduced without impacting or without substantially impacting the brightness of other simultaneously displayed display regions.

Where OLED PLED pixel regions such as those described above are adjacent to each other it is possible that the brightness characteristics of one pixel region can impact the perceived brightness of an adjacent pixel region having different brightness characteristics creating an undesired visual effect. For example a first OLED PLED pixel region having a relatively high level of brightness to support the viewing of multi view three dimensional content may be adjacent to a second OLED PLED pixel region having a relatively low level of brightness to support the viewing of two dimensional content. In this scenario light from pixels in a perimeter area of the first OLED PLED pixel region that are close to the boundary between the two pixel regions may spill over into a perimeter area of the second OLED PLED pixel region. This may cause pixels in the perimeter area of the second OLED PLED pixel region to appear brighter than desired in relation to other pixels in the second OLED PLED pixel region. Conversely pixels in the perimeter area of the first OLED PLED pixel array may appear dimmer than desired in relation to other pixels in the first OLED PLED pixel region because of the adjacency to the second OLED PLED pixel region. To address this issue it is possible to selectively increase or reduce the brightness of one or more OLED PLED pixels in either perimeter area to reduce the spill over effect arising from the different brightness characteristics between the regions.

In still further embodiments a regional brightness control scheme is implemented in a display system that includes an adaptable parallax barrier that also supports brightness regulation via an overlay approach. Such an approach involves the use of a brightness regulation overlay that is either independent of or integrated with an adaptable parallax barrier. The brightness regulation overlay is used to help achieve the aforementioned goals of maintaining standard brightness across various regional screen configurations and compensating for or minimizing backlighting dispersion.

The brightness regulation overlay comprises an element that allows regional dimming through various tones of grey pixels. In one example embodiment an adaptable parallax barrier and the brightness regulation overlay are implemented as a non color i.e. black white and grayscale LCD sandwich although other implementations may be used. The combined adaptable parallax barrier and brightness regulation overlay provide full transparent or opaque states for each pixel as well as a grayscale alternative that can be used to balance out brightness variations caused by the parallax barrier itself.

Control over the individual barrier elements of the parallax barrier and the individual grayscale pixels of the brightness regulation overlay may be provided by using coordinated driver circuitry signaling. Such coordinate signaling may cause the pixels of the adaptable parallax barrier and the brightness regulation overlay collectively referred to below as the manipulator pixels to create opaque and transparent barrier elements associated with a particular parallax barrier configuration and a grayscale support there between to allow creation of overlays.

A first exemplary configuration of adaptable light manipulator is shown above the section line denoted with reference numeral . In accordance with the first exemplary configuration a three dimensional region is created with fully transparent or fully opaque manipulator pixels that provide parallax barrier functionality and a two dimensional region is created having continuous medium gray manipulator pixels. The medium gray manipulator pixels operate to reduce the perceived brightness of two dimensional region to better match that of three dimensional region . It is noted that in other example configurations two dimensional region could instead comprise a three dimensional region having a number of views that is different than three dimensional region thus also requiring brightness regulation.

In the first exemplary configuration no boundary region compensation is performed. In the second exemplary configuration which is shown below section line boundary region compensation is performed. For example a boundary region within two dimensional region may be lightened to a light gray to compensate for any diminution of light that might occur near the boundary with three dimensional region . In contrast the grayscale level of an inner portion of two dimensional region is maintained at the same medium gray level as in the portion of two dimensional region above section line . As a further example a first boundary region and a second boundary region within three dimensional region comprise darker and lighter gray transitional areas respectively to account for light dispersion from two dimensional region . In contrast an inner portion of three dimensional region includes only fully transparent or fully opaque manipulator pixels consistent with a parallax barrier configuration and no brightness regulation.

In one embodiment the configuration of adaptable light manipulator is achieved by first creating a white through various grayscale areas that correspond to the regions and boundary areas to be formed. Once established the manipulator pixels in these areas that comprise the opaque portions of the parallax barrier are overwritten to turn them black. Of course this two stage approach is conceptual only and no overwriting need be performed.

In certain embodiments adaptable light manipulator comprises the only component used in a display system for performing brightness regulation and or boundary region compensation. In alternate embodiments the display system further utilizes any one or more of the following aforementioned techniques for performing brightness regulation and or boundary region compensation a backlight array with independently controllable light sources and or a pixel array and associated control logic for selectively increasing or decreasing the intensity of display pixels e.g. either LCD pixels or OLED PLED pixels . Note that in certain embodiments such as the one described above in reference to adaptable light manipulator is implemented as an integrated adaptable parallax barrier and brightness regulation overlay. However in alternate embodiments adaptable light manipulator is implemented using an adaptable parallax barrier panel and an independent brightness regulation overlay panel.

It is noted that any of the non uniform light generation schemes described above may also be used in conjunction with a display system that includes multiple parallax barriers such as display system of to support simultaneous presentation of regional two dimensional three dimensional and multi view three dimensional views. Furthermore each region supported by such non uniform light generation may comprise a region that simultaneously presents multiple different two dimensional and or three dimensional views to multiple respective viewers.

In display systems in accordance with further embodiments rather than using an adaptable parallax barrier to perform light manipulation in support of multiple viewing configurations including configurations that support the simultaneous display of different visual presentations to different corresponding viewers an adaptable lenticular lens may be used. For example with respect to example display system of adaptable parallax barrier may be replaced with an adaptable lenticular lens. Likewise with respect to example display system of either of first parallax barrier or second parallax barrier may be replaced with a lenticular lens such as an adaptable lenticular lens.

Further description regarding the use of an adaptable lenticular lens to deliver three dimensional views is provided in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 titled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As shown in control circuitry includes a processing unit which may comprise one or more general purpose or special purpose processors or one or more processing cores. Processing unit is connected to a communication infrastructure such as a communication bus. Control circuitry may also include a primary or main memory not shown in such as random access memory RAM that is connected to communication infrastructure . The main memory may have control logic stored thereon for execution by processing unit as well as data stored thereon that may be input to or output by processing unit during execution of such control logic.

Control circuitry may also include one or more secondary storage devices not shown in that are connected to communication infrastructure including but not limited to a hard disk drive a removable storage drive such as an optical disk drive a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive or the like or an interface for communicating with a removable storage unit such as an interface for communicating with a memory card memory stick or the like. Each of these secondary storage devices provide an additional means for storing control logic for execution by processing unit as well as data that may be input to or output by processing unit during execution of such control logic.

Control circuitry further includes a remote control interface that is connected to communication infrastructure . Remote control interface is configured to receive remote control signals from one or more of a plurality of remote control devices. Processing unit or other processing circuitry within control circuitry may be configured to interpret such remote control signals and to perform certain operations based on the interpreted remote control signals. Such actions may include for example modifying a particular visual presentation being displayed by adaptable screen assembly or obtaining media content for presentation via a particular view supported by adaptable screen assembly . In one embodiment remote control signals received by remote control interface from each of a plurality of remote control devices are interpreted in accordance with a common remote control application programming interface API . Control circuitry may include other interfaces other than remote control interface for receiving input from user.

Control circuitry also includes a viewer tracking unit . Viewer tracking unit is intended to generally represent any type of functionality for determining or estimating a location of one or more viewers of display system relative to adaptable screen assembly a head orientation of one or more viewers of display system and or a point of gaze of one or more viewers of display system . Viewer tracking unit may perform such functions using different types of sensors e.g. cameras motion sensors microphones or the like or by using tracking systems such as those that wirelessly track an object e.g. headset remote control or the like currently being held or worn by a viewer.

Media interface is intended to represent any type of interface that is capable of receiving media content such as video content or image content. In certain implementations media interface may comprise an interface for receiving media content from a remote source such as a broadcast media server an on demand media server or the like. In such implementations media interface may comprise for example and without limitation a wired or wireless internet or intranet connection a satellite interface a fiber interface a coaxial cable interface or a fiber coaxial cable interface. Media interface may also comprise an interface for receiving media content from a local source such as a DVD or Blu Ray disc player a personal computer a personal media player smart phone or the like. Media interface may be capable of retrieving video content from multiple sources.

Control circuitry further includes a communication interface . Communication interface enables control circuitry to send control signals via a communication medium to another communication interface within driver circuitry thereby enabling control circuitry to control the operation of driver circuitry . Communication medium may comprise any kind of wired or wireless communication medium suitable for transmitting such control signals.

As shown in driver circuitry includes the aforementioned communication interface as well as pixel array driver circuitry and adaptable light manipulator s driver circuitry . Driver circuitry also optionally includes light generator driver circuitry . Each of these driver circuitry elements is configured to receive control signals from control circuitry via the link between communication interface and communication interface and responsive thereto to send selected drive signals to a corresponding hardware element within adaptable screen assembly the drive signals causing the corresponding hardware element to operate in a particular manner. In particular pixel array driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to a pixel array within adaptable screen assembly adaptable light manipulator s driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to one or more adaptable light manipulators within adaptable screen assembly and optional light generator driver circuitry is configured to send selected drive signals to an optional light generator within adaptable screen assembly .

In one example mode of operation processing unit operates pursuant to control logic to receive media content via media interface and to generate control signals necessary to cause driver circuitry to render such media content to screen in accordance with a selected viewing configuration. For example processing unit may operate pursuant to control logic to receive first and second media content via media interface and present the first and second media content via first and second simultaneously displayed views of adaptable screen assembly to corresponding first and second viewers wherein at least the first view is observable by the first viewer but not the second viewer. Processing unit may cause such views to be delivered to certain locations based on information obtained from viewer tracking unit . The control logic that is executed by processing unit may be retrieved for example from a primary memory or a secondary storage device connected to processing unit via communication infrastructure as discussed above. The control logic may also be retrieved from some other local or remote source. Where the control logic is stored on a computer readable medium that computer readable medium may be referred to herein as a computer program product.

Among other features driver circuitry may be controlled to send coordinated drive signals necessary for simultaneously displaying two dimensional images three dimensional images and multi view three dimensional content via adaptable screen assembly . A manner by which pixel array adaptable light manipulator e.g. an adaptable parallax barrier and light generator may be manipulated in a coordinated fashion to perform this function is described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 031 filed on even date herewith and entitled Coordinated Driving of Adaptable Light Manipulator Backlighting and Pixel Array in Support of Adaptable 2D and 3D Displays the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Note that in accordance with certain implementations e.g. implementations in which pixel array comprises a OLED PLED pixel array adaptable screen assembly need not include light generator .

In one embodiment at least part of the function of generating control signals necessary to cause pixel array adaptable light manipulator and light generator to render media content to screen in accordance with a selected viewing configuration is performed by drive signal processing circuitry which is integrated within driver circuitry . Such circuitry may operate for example in conjunction with and or under the control of processing unit to generate the necessary control signals.

In certain implementations control circuitry driver circuitry and adaptable screen assembly are all included within a single housing. For example and without limitation all these elements may exist within a television a laptop computer a tablet computer or a telephone. In accordance with such an implementation the link formed between communication interfaces and may be replaced by a direction connection between driver circuitry and communication infrastructure . In an alternate implementation control circuitry is disposed within a first housing such as set top box or personal computer and driver circuitry and adaptable screen assembly are disposed within a second housing such as a television or computer monitor. The set top box may be any type of set top box including but not limited to fiber Internet cable satellite or terrestrial digital.

In particular communication system supports at least two overlapping pathways from at least two pieces of media content which may either be independent media content pieces or related media content pieces originating from one or more source media nodes to the eyes of one or more viewers such as viewer . For example one overlapping pathway may service a left eye of viewer and another overlapping pathway may service a right eye of viewer . As another example one overlapping pathway may service one or both eyes of viewer and another overlapping pathway may service one or both eyes of another viewer not shown in .

Each pathway includes communication links and nodes with constraints such as but not limited to bandwidth constraints processing commitments processing power link throughput and delays or the like. For example one or more shared or dedicated communication links may be used to provide a downstream media pathway for delivering first media content piece to a first intermediate media node and one or more shared or dedicated communication links may be used to provide a downstream media pathway for delivering second media content piece to first intermediate media node . Furthermore one or more shared or dedicated communication links may be used to provide a downstream media pathway for delivering nth media content piece to second intermediate media node and one or more shared communication links may be used to deliver first media content piece and second media content piece from first intermediate media node to second intermediate media node . Any number of additional links and intermediate nodes may be used to deliver the media content received by second intermediate media node to nth intermediate media node and one or more shared or dedicated communication links may be used to deliver the media content received by nth intermediate node to a media system . Each one of communication links and has at least one constraint as noted above. Each one of intermediate nodes also has at least one constraint as noted above.

Media system comprises a system that supports the simultaneous display of both a common visual presentation and multiple private personalized visual presentations to multiple viewers via a single screen display . This functionality may be achieved using one or more light manipulator s as described in the preceding section and or using eyewear systems such as shutter glass systems. Media system has one or more constraints such as for example processing power constraints display interface constraints display area e.g. pixel constraints or the like.

A bi directional pathway extends between all nodes in communication system . Such bi directional pathway supports i feedback and or upstream or downstream communication about known pathway constraints ii the communication of status information regarding current performance iii the performance of operations to accommodate one or more constraints and iv the communication of commands or requests to help meet a constraint e.g. by requesting an alternate media content version or a subset of requested media content modifying at least one characteristic of flowing media content or the like .

In communication system all source media node s and intermediate media nodes can each participate directly or indirectly in the process of tailoring at least one if not all of the media pathway flows. Direct participation may include for example and without limitation changing resolution of media content discarding media content associated with particular camera views reducing a frame rate associated with media content e.g. by discarding every other frame or via some other mechanism or technique . Indirect participation may include for example and without limitation identifying a need and or commanding requesting other nodes to engage assist via direct participation.

Generally speaking the various nodes of communication system participate alone or in concert to try to meet requirements of the one or more viewers of media system and underlying media content element pieces involved. It is noted the various nodes operate not only to satisfy constraints associated with single screen display but also the needed amount thereof regions 3D 2D etc. . For example such nodes may logically reduce requested full screen full high definition HD and full 3Dx media content pieces i.e. 3D media content pieces formed from x different perspective views to meet the overall flow constraints.

For example a viewer of media system may request three media content pieces all of which are stored at some media sources in full 3D4 HD with three associated media pathways that overlap in at least parts thereof. If the link constraints and processing constraints in the various nodes along the way and in media system so permit all three media content pieces could be delivered in full. But if the link constraints and processing constraints in the various node along the way and in media system do not so permit then the media content pieces can be modified by any of the nodes. For example the media content pieces could be modified such that one media content piece is presented for 2D viewing in a small region window of display a second media content piece is presented in 3D2 in a small picture in picture like window region of display and the third media content is presented in full screen 3D4 but with substantial overlap from the other two media content pieces in display . Such viewing environment characteristics e.g. display window region size display window region overlap resolution number of three dimensional views and the like comprise constraints of media system as discussed in more detail below.

Thus in accordance with the foregoing one or more nodes within communication system may determine that a piece of media content must be modified prior to or during delivery to display to satisfy one or more system constraints. Various approaches may be used to achieve such modification. For example in one embodiment 1 first the overall pathway constraints are determined 2 second a decision is made concerning what action it to be taken and by which node s and 3 commands requests are received and processed by such node s . In a more localized embodiment a a single node evaluates only its locally known limitations b based thereon the node decides to take action to meet such constraints and c the node carries out such actions.

In particular as shown in communication system includes a shared display screen that simultaneously delivers a first visual experience based on first media content to the eyes of a first viewer and a second visual experience based on second media content to the eyes of a second viewer wherein first viewer and second viewer are co located in the same viewing area. Each of the first media content and the second media content may be obtained from one or more of a plurality of remote media sources and or one or more of a plurality of local media sources . First visual experience or at least a portion thereof may be delivered in a manner such that it is not visible to second viewer . Second visual experience or at least a portion thereof may be delivered in a manner such that it is not visible to first viewer . Various elements of communication system will now be described.

Shared display screen comprises a display screen that is capable of simultaneously presenting different media content to different viewers wherein at least some media content presented to one viewer is not presented to the other viewer s . As shown in shared display screen includes a pixel array and driver circuitry connected thereto. Shared display screen also optionally includes a light generator and one or more adaptable light manipulators connected to driver circuitry .

In one embodiment shared display screen comprises an adaptable screen assembly such as any of those described above in reference to and . In accordance with such an embodiment driver circuitry can be controlled to configure adaptable light manipulator s so that a first image rendered to pixel array is delivered to the eyes of first viewer but not to the eyes of second viewer and so that a second image rendered to pixel array is simultaneously delivered to the eyes of second viewer but not to the eyes of first viewer . As discussed above in reference to those embodiments each of the first image and the second image may comprise a two dimensional or three dimensional image. Furthermore as discussed above in reference to those embodiments each of the first image and the second image may be concurrently rendered to different overlapping or partially overlapping areas of pixel array .

In an alternative embodiment shared display screen comprises a screen assembly that is configured to support the simultaneous presentation of different media content to different viewers by rendering frames of different media content to pixel array in an alternating manner that is synchronized with the opening and closing of shutter glasses such as liquid crystal LC shutter glasses worn by first viewer and second viewer . For example driver circuitry may be controlled to cause frames of first media content and second media content to be rendered to pixel array in an alternating fashion. First viewer may wear shutter glasses that are synchronized with shared display screen such that first viewer only perceives the rendered frames of the first media content while second viewer may wear shutter glasses that are synchronized with shared display screen such that second viewer only perceives the rendered frames of the second media content. Still other types of screen assemblies that are configured to support the simultaneous presentation of different media content to different viewers may be used including ones that combine the use of adaptable light manipulators and shutter glasses to support the simultaneous presentation of different media content to different viewers.

As shown in shared display screen may optionally include a light generator . Such light generator may comprise a backlight or other light source suitable for illuminating pixels of pixel array in embodiments in which the pixels of pixel array are not self illuminating. In embodiments of shared display screen that utilize one or more parallax barriers to perform the functions of adaptable light manipulator s and that support the simultaneous regional display of two dimensional and three dimensional content light generator may comprise a non uniform light generator such as described above in reference to . Additionally in an embodiment in which the pixels of pixel array are self illuminating pixel array may be controlled in a manner similar to that described above in reference to to achieve non uniform light generation. Still other methods of achieving non uniform illumination may be used.

Controller circuitry comprises circuitry that receives media content for delivery to each of first viewer and second viewer and that controls driver circuitry of shared display screen to deliver the media content in accordance with a particular viewing configuration. As noted above controller circuitry may receive first media content and second media content and send signals to driver circuitry that causes driver circuitry to simultaneously deliver first visual experience based on the first media content to the eyes of first viewer and second visual experience based on the second media content to the eyes of second viewer .

Depending upon the implementation shared display screen may comprise a part of a television a computer such as a desktop computer laptop computer tablet computer or the like a telephone e.g. a cellular phone smart phone a personal media player a personal digital assistant PDA a personal video game player or any other device or system that includes a displays screen. Furthermore depending upon the implementation controller circuitry may be disposed in the same housing as shared display screen or may be disposed in a separate housing that is communicatively connected thereto.

Media content that is received by controller circuitry may originate from any of plurality of remote media sources and or any of plurality of local media sources . As shown in remote media sources include a first remote media source and a second remote media source although it is to be understood that remote media sources may include more than two remote media sources. Examples of remote media sources include but are not limited to a cable television headend a satellite broadcasting center a terrestrial broadcasting center an Internet server or the like. Each such remote media source includes equipment for storing accessing and transmitting media content to controller circuitry via one or more data communication links. Such media content may comprise broadcast media content or on demand media content that is delivered responsive to a particular viewer selection or request.

In contrast to remote media sources discussed above local media sources are typically located on the same premises as shared display screen . As shown in local media sources include a first local media source and a second local media source although it is to be understood that local media sources may include more than two local media sources. Examples of local media sources include but are not limited to a computer e.g. a laptop computer a tablet computer a desktop computer a Digital Versatile Disc DVD player a Blu ray disc player a video gaming console a personal media player a telephone e.g. a cellular phone smart phone or a PDA. Each local media source is capable of accessing and transmitting media content to controller circuitry via a suitable communication interface. Each local media source may be activated to perform this function responsive to input from one of viewers or or responsive to signals received from an element within communication system such as controller circuitry or media processing node .

As shown in controller circuitry is connected to a media processing node . Media processing node is intended to represent a system or device that performs functions related to obtaining media content from one or more of the remote and local media sources shown in and providing such media content or a substitute therefore to controller circuitry in a manner and format suitable for display by shared display screen . Depending upon the implementation media processing node may be disposed in the same housing as controller circuitry or in a separate housing that is connected thereto.

In one embodiment media processing node comprises set top box circuitry such as that described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 062 filed on even date herewith and entitled Set top Box Circuitry that Supports Selective Delivery of 2D and 3D Content to Support a Viewing Environment the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. In accordance with such an embodiment media processing node may be configured to receive signals from a remote control device or other input device operated by first viewer and or second viewer wherein such signals may specify media content to be obtained and or a source from which to obtain media content. Based on such signals media processing node may tune to a selected broadcast channel associated with a particular remote media source send a request for media content to a particular remote on demand media source initiate the streaming of content from a local media source or the like. Such media content is then received by media processing node via an appropriate interface not shown in and processed for delivery to controller circuitry .

In certain embodiments media processing node may be configured to service a request for media content by obtaining different media content from one or more remote and or local media sources and combining the media content to generate a single media content stream. For example as described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 062 filed on even date herewith and entitled Set top Box Circuitry that Supports Selective Delivery of 2D and 3D Content to Support a Viewing Environment media processing node may service requests for three dimensional video content by combining different video streams representing different perspectives to create a new video stream e.g. by combining a first two dimensional video stream based on a first perspective with a second two dimensional video stream based on a second perspective to create a three dimensional video stream based on the first and second perspectives or by combining a first three dimensional video stream based on first and second perspectives with a second three dimensional video stream based on third and fourth perspectives to create a multi view three dimensional video stream based on the first second third and fourth perspectives . A hierarchical video encoding and decoding scheme that may be used to efficiently deliver such combinable video streams is described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 053 filed on even date herewith and entitled Hierarchical Video Compression Supporting Selective Delivery of Two Dimensional and Three Dimensional Video Content the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

As also described in the aforementioned incorporated U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 062 filed on even date herewith and entitled Set top Box Circuitry that Supports Selective Delivery of 2D and 3D Content to Support a Viewing Environment media processing node may operate to obtain supplemental media content e.g. advertisements offers bonus content or information that is related to or unrelated to media content that is requested by a viewer and may combine the supplemental media content with the requested media content prior to delivery to controller circuitry .

As further shown in a media processing node gateway may be disposed along a communication path from remote media source to media processing node . Media processing node gateway is intended to represent any intermediate device or system that serves to connect remote media source to media processing node . Media processing node gateway may comprise for example a router switch or other node that operates to selectively deliver certain media content to certain destinations. Media processing node gateway may also comprise a gateway system or device that operates to transfer media content from a first physical layer to a second physical layer. Media processing node gateway may also be configured to process media content received from a remote media source prior to forwarding the same to media processing node . Although shows only a single media processing node gateway present on the communication path that connects remote media source to media processing node it is to be understood that more than one media processing node gateway may be present on this communication path. Furthermore one or more such media processing nodes gateways may be present on the communication path connecting remote media source or any other remote media source to media processing node .

Communication system as described above simultaneously delivers first visual experience based on first media content to first viewer and second visual experience based on second media content to second viewer . To achieve this the infrastructure of communication system simultaneously utilizes a first pathway from the media source s from which the first media content is obtained through processing circuitry of controller circuitry and shared display screen to the eyes of first viewer and a second pathway from the media source s from which the second media content is obtained through processing circuitry of controller circuitry and shared display screen to the eyes of second viewer .

As one example assume that first viewer has tuned to a channel broadcast by remote media source to obtain broadcast video content while second viewer has activated playback of a DVD by local media source . In accordance with this example communication system will utilize a first pathway that passes the broadcast video content from remote media source to processing circuitry via media processing node gateway and media processing node . The first pathway further comprises the transformation of the broadcast video content by processing circuitry to control signals necessary to cause driver circuitry to present the broadcast video content to the eyes of first viewer via shared display screen and the corresponding light transmitted from shared display screen to the eyes of first viewer . In further accordance with this example communication system will utilize a second pathway that passes the DVD video content from local media source to processing circuitry . The second pathway further comprises the transformation of the DVD video content by processing circuitry to control signals necessary to cause driver circuitry to present the DVD video content to the eyes of second viewer via shared display screen and the corresponding light transmitted from shared display screen to the eyes of second viewer .

In every case in which communication system is operated to cause first and second media content to be simultaneously delivered via corresponding first and second pathways to first viewer and second viewer respectively certain display resources will need to be shared among the two different pathways. These display resources may include for example pixels of pixel array and light generated thereby. Furthermore depending upon how the first and second media content is delivered from the remote and local media source s to processing circuitry certain data communication resources may also need to be shared among the two different pathways. For example processing power of a media source and or one or more nodes that connect the media source to processing circuitry may need to be shared. As another example one or more communication links that serve to connect a media source to processing circuitry either directly or via a node may also need to be shared.

As will be discussed in more detail below processing circuitry within communication system is configured to manage resources that may be shared between multiple pathways of communication system to simultaneously deliver different media content from one or more media sources to first viewer and second viewer via shared display screen .

In particular such processing circuitry may manage the utilization of one or more shared display resources or data communication resources to simultaneously support two or more pathways. Furthermore such processing circuitry may operate to allocate one or more shared display resources or data communication resources among the two pathways. The allocation may be performed in a manner that achieves a desired shared viewing configuration and or that is based on underlying characteristics or constraints associated with one or more of the pathways. Still further the aforementioned processing circuitry may modify an existing allocation of shared resources among the two pathways responsive to change in an existing shared viewing configuration or a changed characteristic or constraint associated with the one or more pathways. For example the processing circuitry may set up or modify the allocation of a shared resource among the multiple pathways based on an ascertained characteristic associated with at least one of the pathways. As will also be discussed in detail below the processing circuitry may be configured to receive feedback and or to gather pathway characteristics to facilitate pathway support functions and resource allocation decisions. By simultaneously and adaptively managing each of the pathways the processing circuitry can provide a stable simultaneous multiple viewer viewing environment that can adapt over time as underlying pathway characteristics change.

In accordance with an embodiment processing circuitry within controller circuitry is configured to manage shared display resources to support two pathways utilized by communication system to simultaneously deliver first visual experience based on first media content to the eyes of first viewer and to deliver second visual experience based on second media content to the eyes of second viewer . Examples of such display resources include but are not limited to the pixels of pixel array the light emitted therefrom and processing power of processing circuitry .

In an embodiment in which shared display screen includes adaptable light manipulator s processing circuitry may allocate the light emitted by pixel array between the first pathway and the second pathway by causing driver circuitry to configure adaptable light manipulator s in a particular manner. In particular as described above a configuration of adaptable light manipulator s may be selected that delivers light from certain pixels of pixel array to first viewer but not to second viewer and that delivers light from certain other pixels of pixel array to second viewer but not to first viewer . Processing circuitry may also cause driver circuitry to configure adaptable light manipulator s in a manner that allocates more display generated light to one pathway or the other or allocate certain display generated light to both pathways.

In an alternate embodiment processing circuitry may allocate the light emitted by pixel array to both pathways by causing frames of first media content and second media content to be rendered to pixel array in an alternating manner that is synchronized with the opening and closing of shutter lenses of glasses worn by first viewer and second viewer . The light from pixel array is thus partitioned between the pathways on a time domain basis. In accordance with such an embodiment processing circuitry may control driver circuitry to modify a frequency at which frames of the first and second media content are rendered to pixel array and or the duration of display of such frames. The shutter glasses worn by first viewer and second viewer are synchronized therewith. In this manner processing circuitry and the shutter glasses may operate together to modify the amount of time first viewer and second viewer are able to view corresponding media content presented via shared display screen . For example processing circuitry may increase the frequency and or duration of display of first media content to be delivered to the eyes of first viewer while reducing the frequency and or duration of display of second media content to be delivered to the eyes of second viewer .

Processing circuitry may also simultaneously allocate pixels of pixel array both to a first pathway used to deliver first visual experience based on first media content to the eyes of first viewer and to a second pathway to deliver second visual experience based on second media content to the eyes of second viewer . For example in an embodiment in which shared display screen includes adaptable light manipulator s in the form of one or more adaptable parallax barriers processing circuitry may control driver circuitry to selectively render the first media content to a first portion of the pixels of pixel array made visible to only first viewer by the parallax barrier s while selectively rendering the second media content to a second portion of the pixels of pixel array made visible to only second viewer by the parallax barrier s wherein the size of the portions may vary depending upon the pathway allocations. Still further processing circuitry may control driver circuitry to selectively render the first or second media content to a portion of the pixels of pixel array visible to both first viewer and second viewer . In this manner processing circuitry may selectively allocate more pixels of pixel array to the first pathway or the second pathway or allocate pixels to both pathways.

Processing circuitry may also manage how pixels of pixel array that are allocated to each pathway are used to render media content to be delivered via that pathway. For example processing circuitry may receive media content for display to first viewer via a first allocated pixel region of pixel array . Processing circuitry may selectively map the media content to the pixels of the first allocated pixel region in different ways by for example selecting or changing a resolution at which the media content is displayed or selecting or changing a number of perspective views associated with the media content that are rendered to the allocated pixel region. Thus for example processing circuitry may receive high definition media content representing eight perspective views i.e. 4 different three dimensional views and selectively render it to a particular pixel region at the same resolution or with the same number of views or selectively render it to the particular pixel region at standard definition and in a manner that only presents four perspective views.

Processing circuitry may selectively allocate shared display resources to the first pathway and the second pathway based on a wide variety of factors depending upon the implementation. These factors may include for example and without limitation whether or not first viewer and second viewer want to view different media content a desired joint viewing configuration determined based on input received from first viewer and or second viewer a current location head orientation point of gaze of first viewer and or second viewer manually or automatically obtained feedback relating to how media content is being perceived by first viewer and or second viewer current or fixed display constraints associated with shared display screen or interfaces thereto characteristics of first media content to be displayed to first viewer and or second media content to be displayed to second viewer constraints associated with communication links over which such media content is delivered e.g. bandwidth constraints channel quality limitations delay constraints associated with a media source or node that provides or processes such media content e.g. processing power constraints payment terms associated with media content or media content delivery services purchased or ordered by first viewer or second viewer and a quality of service associated with or assigned to first viewer or second viewer or media content delivered thereto.

Various examples of how processing circuitry may operate to manage and utilize display resources associated with shared display screen to simultaneously support two pathways used to simultaneously deliver two different visual experiences to two different viewers will now be described in reference to . In particular illustrates an example viewing environment in which shared display screen of communication system is used to simultaneously deliver first visual experience to first viewer and deliver second visual experience to second viewer . In screen interface circuitry is intended to encompass controller circuitry of and may also encompass media processing node in certain embodiments.

As shown in shared display screen is delivering entirely different visual experiences to first viewer and second viewer . As discussed above processing circuitry of controller circuitry may achieve this by selectively rendering first media content associated with first visual experience to a first set of pixels of pixel array and selectively rendering second media content associated with second visual experience to a second set of pixels of pixel array and then controlling adaptive light manipulator s to cause light generated by the first set of pixels to be observable only by first viewer and to cause light generated by the second set of pixels to be observable only to second viewer . Alternatively processing circuitry may achieve this by rendering frames of the first media content associated with first visual experience and frames of the second media content associated with second visual experience to pixel array in an alternating manner that is synchronized with shutter glasses worn by first viewer and second viewer . In either case processing circuitry acts to selectively allocate pixels of pixel array and the light generated therefrom to the pathways used to simultaneously produce first visual experience and second visual experience .

Processing circuitry may also manage how pixels of pixel array that are allocated to each pathway are used to render media content to be delivered via that pathway. For example processing circuitry may allocate a first region of pixel array to render first media content associated with first visual experience for display to first viewer . Processing circuitry may selectively map the first media content to the pixels of the first allocated pixel region in different ways by for example selecting or changing a resolution at which the media content is displayed or selecting or changing a number of perspective views associated with the media content that are rendered to the allocated pixel region.

Processing circuitry may allocate and utilize such display resources in support of the two pathways responsive to at least input received from first viewer and or second viewer . Such input may specify for example the media content that each viewer desires to view and a desired viewing configuration associated therewith. First viewer may provide such input for example via a first remote control device and second viewer may provide such input for example via a second remote control device . Such remote control input may be transmitted in the form of wireless remote control signals and to a remote control interface within screen interface circuitry . Examples of such remote control devices and display systems that incorporate the same are described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 078 filed on even date herewith and entitled Multiple Remote Controllers that Each Simultaneously Controls a Different Visual Presentation of a 2D 3D Display the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Additional user interfaces and devices may also be used to provide input from first viewer and second viewer to screen interface circuitry .

In addition to input from first viewer and second viewer regarding desired media content and viewing configurations processing circuitry may take a wide variety of other factors into account in determining how to utilize the shared display resources of communication system both when initially setting up the pathways associated with first visual presentation and second visual presentation and during ongoing utilization thereof.

For example processing circuitry may adapt a configuration of pixel array and adaptable light manipulator s of shared display screen to deliver images associated with first visual experience to a first location and or having a first orientation based on a determined location head orientation and or point of gaze of first viewer . Likewise processing circuitry may configure pixel array and adaptable light manipulator s of shared display screen to deliver images associated with second visual experience to a second location and or having a second orientation based on a determined location head orientation and or point of gaze of second viewer . Example techniques for determining a location head orientation and or point of gaze of a viewer of display screen such as shared display screen and adapting the display screen based on such information are described in commonly owned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 068 filed on even date herewith and entitled Three Dimensional Display System with Adaptation Based on Viewing Reference of Viewer s the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein. Such techniques may involve for example communication between screen interface circuitry and location tracking circuitry disposed in either or both of remote control devices and or in either or both of a headset worn by first viewer and a headset worn by second viewer .

Furthermore processing circuitry may modify the allocation or usage of display resources based on feedback received from one or both of first viewer and second viewer . Such feedback may be provided by each viewer via an interface e.g. remote control devices and or obtained automatically e.g. by cameras attached to remote control devices and or headsets and . Mechanisms for providing such feedback are generally represented in as feedback mechanism s and . For example if first viewer is wearing shutter glasses that are out of synchronization with shared display screen feedback generated by feedback mechanism s indicative of this condition may be received by controller circuitry and processing circuitry may operate to bring shared display screen and the shutter glasses into synchronization. As another example if first viewer is receiving image content that is filtered by adaptable light manipulator s in a manner that is less than optimal given a current location head orientation or point of gaze of first viewer feedback generated by feedback mechanism s indicative of this condition may be received by controller circuitry and processing circuitry may operate to modify a configuration of adaptable light manipulator s accordingly.

Processing circuitry may manage the utilization of the display resources to take into account certain current or fixed display constraints associated with shared display screen . For example processing circuitry may deliver requested media content to first viewer or second viewer having a number of perspective views or having a resolution than is less than what is desired by the viewer if shared display screen does not support display of the desired number of perspective views or desired resolution.

Furthermore certain constraints associated with data communication links and nodes over which media content is delivered from remote or local media sources to processing circuitry may impact the manner in which processing circuitry delivers such media content to first viewer and or second viewer . For example overloading of a media source or intermediate node e.g. media processing node media processing node gateway responsible for delivering media content to processing circuitry may require processing circuitry to present media content in a manner that is different than that desired by a viewer. As another example bandwidth constraints or impairments on one or more links connecting a media source to processing circuitry may also require processing circuitry to present media content in a manner that is different than that desired by a viewer. Presenting media content in a manner that is different than that desired by a viewer may include presenting media content having a number of perspective views or having a resolution than is less than what is desired by a viewer or presenting media content in a smaller region of shared display screen than desired by a viewer.

Processing circuitry is further configured to allocate display resources in a manner that takes into account the competing demands of presenting first visual experience to first viewer and presenting second visual experience to second viewer in light of existing display and data communication constraints. To this end processing circuitry may operate to allocate a certain display resource evenly among the pathway associated with first visual experience and the pathway associated with second visual experience or may allocate more of a certain display resource to one pathway than another.

For example in an embodiment in which processing circuitry alternately renders first and second media content to pixel array in a manner that is synchronized with the opening and closing of shutter lenses of glasses worn by first viewer and second viewer processing circuitry may increase the frequency and or duration of display of the first media content to be delivered to the eyes of first viewer while reducing the frequency and or duration of display of second media content to be delivered to the eyes of second viewer .

As another example in an embodiment in which processing circuitry selectively renders first media content to a first portion of the pixels of pixel array made visible to only first viewer by adaptable light manipulator s while selectively rendering second media content to a second portion of the pixels of pixel array made visible to only second viewer by adaptable light manipulator s processing circuitry may increase the size of the first portion at the expense of the size of the second portion.

The processing power of processing circuitry consumed in causing media content to be displayed via shared display screen may itself be a constrained resource that must be allocated between the two pathways. For example more processing power of processing circuitry may be allocated to a first pathway associated with first visual experience than a second pathway associated with second visual experience . This may enable the first pathway to deliver media content that consumes more processing power of processing circuitry than that being delivered by the second pathway. For example this may enable the first pathway to deliver media content that occupies a larger pixel array region has a higher resolution and or more perspective views than media content being delivered over the second pathway.

Processing circuitry may allocate more of a finite display resource to one pathway than another based on a variety of factors. For example payment terms associated with media content being delivered to either first viewer or second viewer may dictate a certain allocation of display resources. Furthermore one or more of the pathways may have a quality of service associated therewith that may dictate a certain allocation of display resources.

Processing circuitry may also be configured to determine if a constraint associated with a particular portion of either pathway has been imposed or removed thereby enabling or requiring processing circuitry to adaptively modify allocation of shared display resources between pathways based on the change. For example if the delivery of first media content upon which first visual presentation is based is delayed due to an issue with a data communication link or node processing circuitry may be required to present the first media content at a reduced resolution or using a lesser number of perspective views. This may free up other pixels of pixel array that can then be allocated by processing circuitry to support second visual presentation .

As further shown in first visual experience includes a first visual element that is observable by first viewer but not by second viewer . In an embodiment processing circuitry causes first visual element to be presented to first viewer but not to second viewer by configuring adaptable light manipulator s to deliver certain pixels in a region of pixel array corresponding to first visual element to first viewer but not to second viewer and to deliver certain other pixels in the region of pixel array corresponding to first visual element to second viewer but not to first viewer .

First visual element comprises a presentation of media content that is different than the media content used to support shared view . For example first visual element may comprise a picture in picture display of such other media content. For example in accordance with one configuration shared view comprises a visual presentation of first video content while first visual element comprises a picture in picture visual presentation of second video content. However this is only an example and first visual element may comprise a visual presentation of other types of media content as well.

As also shown in second visual experience includes a second visual element a third visual element and a fourth visual element that are observable to second viewer but not to first viewer . In an embodiment processing circuitry causes these views to be presented to second viewer but not to first viewer by configuring adaptable light manipulator s to deliver certain pixels in regions of pixel array corresponding to these views to second viewer but not to first viewer and to deliver certain other pixels in the regions of pixel array corresponding to these views to first viewer but not to second viewer .

Each of second visual element third visual element and fourth visual element comprises a presentation of media content that is different than the media content used to support shared view . For example in one embodiment each of second visual element third visual element and fourth visual element may comprise a visual presentation of a different interactive graphical element or widget that appears overlaid upon shared view . However this is only an example and each of these views may comprise visual presentations of other types of media content as well.

In accordance with the foregoing description communication system may utilize a first pathway to deliver media content associated with first visual element to first viewer and a second pathway to deliver media content associated with any of second visual element third visual element or fourth visual element to second viewer . As discussed above processing circuitry may manage utilize and selectively allocate display resources associated with shared display screen among these multiple pathways to achieve a particular viewing configuration based on a variety of factors including various characteristics and constraints associated with each of the various pathways.

Communication system includes processing circuitry that is configured to manage certain data communication resources that may be shared between multiple pathways to simultaneously deliver different media content from one or more media sources to first viewer and second viewer via shared display screen . Such data communication resources may include for example and without limitation processing resources of any of remote media sources and any of local media sources processing resources of media processing node gateway and media processing node and communication links between any media source and node any node and controller circuitry and any media source and controller circuitry .

For example first visual presentation may be supported by first media content obtained from remote media source and second visual presentation may be supported by second media content also obtained from remote media source . In this case the pathway associated with first visual presentation and second visual presentation is essentially the same. This means that processing power associated with each of remote media source media processing node gateway and media processing node may need to be shared between the pathways. This also means that bandwidth along the communication link connecting remote media source to media processing node gateway bandwidth along the communication link connecting media processing node gateway to media processing node and bandwidth along the communication link between media processing node and controller circuitry may need to be shared between both pathways.

As another example first visual presentation may be supported by first media content obtained from remote media source and second visual presentation may be supported by second media content obtained from local media source . In this case the pathways associated with first visual presentation and second visual presentation merge at media processing node . This means that processing power associated with media processing node may need to be shared between the pathways. This also means that bandwidth along the communication link connecting media processing node to controller circuitry may need to be shared between both pathways.

To manage the sharing of media source processing power between two pathways leading to shared display screen each remote and local media source shown in includes processing circuitry. In particular remote media source includes processing circuitry remote media source includes processing circuitry local media source includes processing circuitry and local media source includes processing circuitry . The processing circuitry of each media source may selectively allocate more processing power to delivering media content to one pathway versus another or allocate roughly the same amount of processing power to each pathway. The allocation decision may be based on any of a variety of factors including but not limited to characteristics of the media content being sent along each pathway a quality of service associated with at least one of the pathways payment terms associated with one of the pathways or the like. The processing circuitry of each media source may adaptively modify the processing power allocation to each pathway responsive to changing conditions such as changing load conditions on the media source or the like. The processing circuitry of each media source may be configured to obtain such load condition information or other information relating to the available processing power of the media source.

The processing circuitry of each media source may also operate to allocate bandwidth of a communication link between the media source and a downstream node e.g. media processing node gateway or media processing node between the two pathways. The processing circuitry of each media source may also adaptively modify such allocation based on changing conditions. For example in certain embodiments the processing circuitry of each media source may be configured to gather performance characteristics associated with the downstream communication link or downstream node and adaptively modify the bandwidth allocation of one or both pathways based on the performance characteristics.

As also shown in media processing node gateway also includes processing circuitry . Processing circuitry may manage the sharing of the processing power of media processing node gateway between two pathways leading to shared display screen . In particular processing circuitry may selectively allocate more processing power to processing media content on one pathway versus another or allocate roughly the same amount of processing power to each pathway. The allocation decision may be based on any of a variety of factors including but not limited to characteristics of the media content being sent along each pathway a quality of service associated with at least one of the pathways payment terms associated with one of the pathways or the like. Processing circuitry may adaptively modify the processing power allocation to each pathway responsive to changing conditions such as changing load conditions on media processing node gateway or the like. Processing circuitry may be configured to obtain such load condition information or other information relating to the available processing power of media processing node gateway .

Processing circuitry may also operate to allocate bandwidth of a communication link between media processing node gateway and a downstream node e.g. media processing node between the two pathways. Processing circuitry may further operate to allocate bandwidth of a communication link between media processing node gateway and an upstream node e.g. any of remote media sources between the two pathways. Processing circuitry may also adaptively modify such allocations based on changing conditions. For example in certain embodiments processing circuitry may be configured to gather performance characteristics associated with an upstream communication link an upstream node a downstream communication link or downstream node and adaptively modify the bandwidth allocation of one or both pathways based on the performance characteristics.

As further shown in media processing node also includes processing circuitry . Processing circuitry may manage the sharing of the processing power of media processing node between two pathways leading to shared display screen . In particular processing circuitry may selectively allocate more processing power to processing media content on one pathway versus another or allocate roughly the same amount of processing power to each pathway. The allocation decision may be based on any of a variety of factors including but not limited to characteristics of the media content being sent along each pathway a quality of service associated with at least one of the pathways payment terms associated with one of the pathways or the like. Processing circuitry may adaptively modify the processing power allocation to each pathway responsive to changing conditions such as changing load conditions on media processing node or the like. Processing circuitry may be configured to obtain such load condition information or other information relating to the available processing power of media processing node .

Processing circuitry may also operate to allocate bandwidth of a communication link between media processing node and a downstream node e.g. controller circuitry between the two pathways. Processing circuitry may further operate to allocate bandwidth of a communication link between media processing node and an upstream node e.g. any of remote media sources local media source or media processing node gateway between the two pathways. Processing circuitry may also adaptively modify such allocations based on changing conditions. For example in certain embodiments processing circuitry may be configured to gather performance characteristics associated with an upstream communication link an upstream node a downstream communication link or downstream node and adaptively modify the bandwidth allocation of one or both pathways based on the performance characteristics.

C. Example Method for Operating Communication System that includes Simultaneous Pathways for Multi Viewer Support

As shown in the method of flowchart begins at step in which a first pathway from one or more media sources and through both processing circuitry and a shared display screen to a first viewer is utilized to deliver a first visual experience to the first viewer the first visual experience being based on at least a first part of media content obtained from the media source s . In accordance with an embodiment at least a portion of the first visual experience is observable by the first viewer but not by a second viewer. For example as discussed above in reference to communication system of a first pathway from one or more of remote media sources and or local media sources and through both processing circuitry and shared display screen to first viewer may be utilized to deliver first visual experience to first viewer wherein first visual experience is based on at least a first part of media content obtained from the one or more of remote media sources and or local media sources . As also discussed above at least a portion of first visual experience may be observable by first viewer but not by second viewer .

At step a second pathway from the media source s and through both the processing circuitry and the shared display screen to a second viewer is utilized to deliver a second visual experience to the second viewer simultaneously with the delivery of the first visual experience to the first viewer the second visual experience being based on at least a second part of media content obtained from the media source s . In accordance with an embodiment at least a portion of the second visual experience is observable by the second viewer but not by the first viewer. For example as discussed above in reference to communication system of a second pathway from one or more of remote media sources and or local media sources and through both processing circuitry and shared display screen to second viewer may be utilized to deliver second visual experience to second viewer simultaneously with the delivery of first visual experience to first viewer wherein second visual experience is based on at least a second part of media content obtained from the one or more of remote media sources and or local media sources . As also discussed above at least a portion of second visual experience may be observable by second viewer but not by first viewer .

At step at least one pathway resource that is shared between the first pathway and the second pathway is managed or assistance for performing such management is provided. For example as discussed above in reference to communication system of processing circuitry may manage or assist in the management of one or more display resources associated with shared display screen that are shared between the two pathways. As also discussed above such display resources may include but are not limited to pixels of pixel array light emitted thereby processing power of controller circuitry or the like . As a further example processing circuitry of media processing node processing circuitry of media processing node gateway and any of processing circuitry and associated with remote media source remote media source local media source and local media source may manage or assist in the management of one or more data communication resources associated with communication system that are shared between the two pathways. As also discussed above such data communication resources may include but are not limited to processing power of any of remote media sources local media sources media processing node gateway and media processing node and bandwidth along any direct or indirect communication link between any of the media sources and controller circuitry .

In one embodiment step includes at least assisting in the managing of the at least one pathway resource that is shared between the first pathway and the second pathway prior to beginning the simultaneous delivery of the first visual experience and the second visual experience. For example with continued reference to communication system of any of processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry and processing circuitry may operate to allocate a shared resource among the two pathways or obtain information used to allocate a shared resource among the two pathways prior to the utilization of such pathways to deliver first visual experience and second visual experience respectively.

In a further embodiment step includes changing an allocation of the at least one pathway resource during the simultaneous delivery of the first visual experience and the second visual experience. For example as discussed above in reference to communication system of any of processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry and processing circuitry may operate to change an allocation of a shared resource to the two pathways used to deliver first visual experience and second visual experience during the delivery of such visual experiences.

In another embodiment step includes at least assisting in gathering a pathway characteristic. For example with continued reference to communication system of processing circuitry may gather characteristics associated with the pathway through display screen to first viewer used to deliver first visual experience and the pathway through display screen to second viewer used to deliver second visual experience for use in performing shared resource management functions. As discussed above such characteristics may include but are not limited to a desired joint viewing configuration determined based on input received from first viewer and or second viewer a current location head orientation point of gaze of first viewer and or second viewer manually or automatically obtained feedback relating to how media content is being perceived by first viewer and or second viewer current or fixed display constraints associated with shared display screen or interfaces thereto characteristics of first media content to be displayed to first viewer and or second media content to be displayed to second viewer constraints associated with communication links over which such media content is delivered e.g. bandwidth constraints channel quality limitations delay constraints associated with a media source or node that provides or processes such media content e.g. processing power constraints payment terms associated with media content or media content delivery services purchased or ordered by first viewer or second viewer and a quality of service associated with or assigned to first viewer or second viewer or media content delivered thereto. As further discussed above in reference to communication system of one or more of processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry processing circuitry and processing circuitry may be configured to gather performance characteristics associated with a node to which it is connected or a communication link thereto for use in performing shared resource management functions.

In yet another embodiment the first pathway and the second pathway are both adaptive pathways and step includes adapting the first pathway and the second pathway based on at least one pathway performance characteristic. For example as discussed above in reference to communication system both the first pathway used to deliver first visual experience to first viewer and the second pathway used to simultaneously deliver visual experience to second viewer may be adaptive in that aspects of each pathway e.g. configuration or utilization of elements of shared display screen utilization of processing power of various nodes and communication links between same etc. may be dynamically modified by processing circuitry in response to changing conditions. Furthermore such processing circuitry may adapt both pathways responsive to a changed condition associated with only one pathway. For example in response to a changed condition on the pathway that is used to deliver first visual experience to first viewer processing circuitry may reduce the allocation of a particular shared resource to that pathway and increase the allocation of the shared resource to the pathway used to deliver second visual experience to second viewer or vice versa. As a particular example a node associated with the delivery of media content in support of second visual experience may experience a performance issue. In response processing circuitry may reduce the allocation of display resources to second visual experience e.g. present a smaller view thereby reducing pixels consumed by second visual experience or a view with less resolution or perspective views thereby reducing process requirements associated with the display of second visual experience . Processing circuitry may then allocate any excess display resources no longer required to support second visual experience to support first visual experience .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

