---

title: Unified communication based multi-screen video system
abstract: A multiple screen telepresence style video conferencing experience is provided employing generic hardware and intelligent software, which may be based on existing enhanced communication systems such as unified communication systems. Through a component based approach, the system can be deployed in any conference room, assembled on the spot by an untrained user, flexible to accommodate any number of screens.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290128&OS=08290128&RS=08290128
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08290128
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100610
---
As an alternative to Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN systems cellular phone networks have proliferated over the last decades where users with cellular phones have access to one or more networks at almost any location. Also a recent development is the wide spread use of Voice over IP VOIP telephony which uses internet protocol IP over wired and wireless networks. With the availability of such diverse types of communication networks and devices capable of taking advantage of various features of these networks enhanced communication systems bring different communication networks together providing until now unavailable functionality such as combining various modes of communication e.g. instant messaging voice calls video communications etc. . This technology is also referred to as unified communications UC . A network of servers manages end devices capable of handling a wide range of functionality and communication while facilitating communications between the more modern unified communication network devices and other networks e.g. PSTN cellular etc. .

One of the popular features of enhanced communication systems is video conferencing which participants may attend through their desktop computing devices. Regular video conferencing has its limitations and is a developing technology. Telepresence systems showcase the state of a art video conferencing experience providing an immersive experience such that meeting participants feel they are sitting face to face with each other and can effortlessly communicate with each other. Telepresence delivers the promise of video conferencing as something that can replace travel. However telepresence is also an expensive undertaking with high system and maintenance costs making it limited to executive use and not reachable for the masses. Telepresence deployment may be quite involved requiring month of planning building out the space and installing special hardware and furniture.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to providing a multiple screen telepresence style video conferencing experience employing generic hardware and intelligent software which may be based on existing enhanced communication systems such as unified communication systems. Through a component based approach a system according to embodiments may be deployed in any conference room assembled on the spot by an untrained user flexible to accommodate any number of screens.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

As briefly described above a multiple screen telepresence style video conferencing experience may be provided employing generic hardware and intelligent software based on existing enhanced communication systems such as unified communication systems. Through a component based approach multi screen applications may discover each other with one serving as master the others as slaves. The system may be set up in systems with dedicated multi point control unit MCU generic audio video MCUs or in a point to point mesh. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While the embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a personal computer those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for managing multimodal communication systems. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a single server and comparable systems. The term server generally refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. However a server may also be implemented as a virtual server software programs executed on one or more computing devices viewed as a server on the network. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

In a unified communication UC system such as the one shown in diagram users may communicate via a variety of end devices which are client devices of the UC system. Each client device may be capable of executing one or more communication applications for voice communication video communication instant messaging application sharing data sharing and the like. In addition to their advanced functionality the end devices may also facilitate traditional phone calls through an external connection such as through PBX to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . End devices may include any type of smart phone cellular phone any computing device executing a communication application a smart automobile console and advanced phone devices with additional functionality.

UC Network s includes a number of servers performing different tasks. For example UC servers provide registration presence and routing functionalities. Routing functionality enables the system to route calls to a user to anyone of the client devices assigned to the user based on default and or user set policies. For example if the user is not available through a regular phone the call may be forwarded to the user s cellular phone and if that is not answering a number of voicemail options may be utilized. Since the end devices can handle additional communication modes UC servers may provide access to these additional communication modes e.g. instant messaging video communication etc. through access server . Access server resides in a perimeter network and enables connectivity through UC network s with other users in one of the additional communication modes. UC servers may include servers that perform combinations of the above described functionalities or specialized servers that only provide a particular functionality. For example home servers providing presence functionality routing servers providing routing functionality and so on. Similarly access server may provide multiple functionalities such as firewall protection and connectivity or only specific functionalities.

Audio Video A V conferencing server provides audio and or video conferencing capabilities by facilitating those over an internal or external network. Mediation server mediates signaling and media to and from other types of networks such as a PSTN or a cellular network e.g. calls through PBX or from cellular phone . Mediation server may also act as a Session Initiation Protocol SIP user agent.

In a UC system users may have one or more identities which is not necessarily limited to a phone number. The identity may take any form depending on the integrated networks such as a telephone number a Session Initiation Protocol SIP Uniform Resource Identifier URI or any other identifier. While any protocol may be used in a UC system SIP is a commonly used method.

SIP is an application layer control signaling protocol for creating modifying and terminating sessions with one or more participants. It can be used to create two party multiparty or multicast sessions that include Internet telephone calls multimedia distribution and multimedia conferences. SIP is designed to be independent of the underlying transport layer.

SIP clients may use Transport Control Protocol TCP to connect to SIP servers and other SIP endpoints. SIP is primarily used in setting up and tearing down voice or video calls. However it can be used in any application where session initiation is a requirement. These include event subscription and notification terminal mobility and so on. Voice and or video communications are typically done over separate session protocols typically Real Time Protocol RTP .

A UC system may provide a platform for multimodal communications including video conferencing. In a system according to embodiments an application layer may be established over the communication application for supporting auto discovery handling telepresence layer logic performing system management tasks managing a user interface and comparable operations. Such a system may provide single or multi screen video conferencing through a distributed architecture between client applications or managed by a server specialized device e.g. an MCU providing a telepresence experience without the complicated and burdensome infrastructure of such a system.

While the example system in has been described with specific components such as mediation server A V server home server presence server and similar devices embodiments are not limited to these components or system configurations and can be implemented with other system configuration employing fewer or additional components. Functionality of systems managing multi screen video conferencing through a UC infrastructure may also be distributed among the components of the systems differently depending on component capabilities and system configurations. Furthermore embodiments are not limited to unified communication systems. The approaches discussed here may be applied to any video capable networked communication environment using the principles described herein.

A system according to embodiments may provide a telepresence style video conferencing experience employing a componentized architecture within a unified communication infrastructure with generic computing device serving as base unit as shown in diagram . The base unit may include generic computing device hardware such as a display a processor a camera audio input and output devices microphone speakers and comparable ones. The display may be a high resolution display capable of handling high definition HD video. The processor may need to be capable of processing multiple video streams. Thus the processor may be a multi core processor. The camera may also need to be an HD capable camera for high quality video imaging.

The base unit computing device may execute a UC communication application capable of facilitating multimodal communications with other clients of the system as well as providing ancillary services such as interaction with scheduling applications contact list management presence based services and comparable ones. UC communication application may support SIP and other protocols for media transport as discussed previously. The base unit computing device may further execute a multi screen application adapted to support auto discovery for discovering and connecting to other multi screen applications in a conference mode telepresence logic system management and user interface for the multi screen video conferencing operations.

In an operation mode the display of the base unit computing device may present a video screen for communication with another participant and a data collaboration meeting control screen for application sharing system control and similar purposes. The data collaboration meeting control screen is the main user interface of the multi screen application enabling users to select conferencing modes set operational parameters and perform comparable tasks.

The master client may include the data collaboration control screen . The clients may communicate with each other and other components of the system through communication applications and . In a peer to peer call the master client may set up the initial call then drive the slave clients to connect to the remote side. In a multi party call the master client may set up multiple conferences through an MCU and use the UC system s MCU capability e.g. switching multi view etc. to construct the telepresence topology. According to other embodiments clients may self organize among themselves without involving additional MCUs or infrastructure servers.

When room Y calls room X for multi screen video conferencing the call may be marked as a telepresence call. Room X multi screen application e.g. may accept the call and negotiate topology. The application layer may drive communication application to make the proper peer to peer call. The application layer may also drive the communication application for the master unit to establish data collaboration. Next the communication application may establish the audio video call and further establish an application channel with the UC system Application Sharing MCU ASMCU .

If telepresence topology involves a telepresence server the flow may still be similar with the multi screen application deciding the proper SIP endpoint to call. Interoperability among telepresence systems is based on the negotiation of telepresence topology between two different systems.

A system according to embodiment enables establishment of a multi screen telepresence framework out of single screen video systems. In addition to the single platform configuration for various communication modes the system is extensible to N units by simply adding another unit with a communication application multi screen application structure lowering cost and complexity of the telepresence experience.

Alternatively the telepresence MCU discover the multi screen applications and set up the multi screen video conference communicating with each participating unit and for establishment of communication channels and other modalities of communication such as data sharing. Communication application may facilitate communication between data MCU and telepresence MCU . Multi screen applications of each of the units may perform the tasks described previously for providing a telepresence experience in video conferencing.

The example systems in have been described with specific components such as telepresence MCUs data MCUs and similar ones and particular configurations. Embodiments are not limited to communication systems according to these example configurations. An enhanced communication system employing multi screen video conferencing with telepresence capabilities according to embodiments may be implemented in configurations employing fewer or additional components and performing other tasks.

A system according to embodiments may comprise any topology of servers clients Internet service providers and communication media. Also the system may have a static or dynamic topology. The term client may refer to a client application or a client device. A system according to embodiments may involve many more components typical and relevant ones are discussed in conjunction with this figure.

Mediation server s may provide signaling and media exchange between the different systems. A PBX and an RF modem may be used for connection between the PSTN and the cellular networks respectively and the mediation server s . Client devices communicate with each other and with devices on other networks through UCN . The UC system may include a one or more specialized or combination servers for presence routing and other functionalities as discussed in more detail above.

While audio and text based communications may be facilitated over the PSTN and cellular networks as well as the UC network itself video capable clients of the UC network may be enabled to facilitate multi screen video conferencing in a telepresence style employing a multi screen application. The architecture may be mesh architecture and or managed by one or more central telepresence MCUs as discussed above.

Client devices and the servers of the system may communicate through SIP in routing requests and other protocols in transferring media. Data associated with the system and other network related operations may be stored in one or more data stores such as data stores which may be directly accessed by the servers and or clients of the system or managed through a database server . UCN provides the backbone of the UC system and may employ a number of protocols such as SIP RTP and the like. Client devices e.g. provide platforms for UCN user end points. Users may access the communication system using a client device or one or more client applications running on a client device.

UCN provides communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation UCN may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources data distribution systems may be employed to implement multi screen video conferencing. Furthermore the networked environments discussed in are for illustration purposes only. Embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules or processes.

Communication application may be any application that facilitates multimodal communication between other client devices of the enhanced communication system and computing device . Multi screen application may manage multi screen video conference user interface meeting logic and auxiliary devices such as camera microphones speakers etc. as discussed previously. This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer readable storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of computing device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device and comparable input devices. Output device s such as a display speakers printer and other types of output devices may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wired or wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link a short range network and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications presence servers and comparable devices. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media can include therein computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Example embodiments also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.

Process begins with operation where multi screen applications on UC client devices perform auto discovery finding each other. This may be followed by election of a master at operation . A communication application component on each unit client device may register the units as rooms for the purpose of multi screen video conferencing at operation indicating the master unit in the registration process.

Upon receiving a call from another client device in the system at operation the multi screen application of the master unit may accept the call negotiate a topology for the call and enable the communication application component to establish the audio video communication channel at operation . Realistic video conference experience through manipulation of video and audio signals e.g. spatial audio high quality video cascading of the video displays etc. may be managed by the multi screen application. If a data sharing session such as application sharing or whiteboard sharing are part of the conference a data sharing channel may be established by the communication application component s at operation .

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Multi screen video conferencing using a unified communication infrastructure according to embodiments may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

