---

title: Method to determine the position-dependant metal correction factor for dose-rate equivalent laser testing of semiconductor devices
abstract: A method reconstructs the charge collection from regions beneath opaque metallization of a semiconductor device, as determined from focused laser charge collection response images, and thereby derives a dose-rate dependent correction factor for subsequent broad-area, dose-rate equivalent, laser measurements. The position- and dose-rate dependencies of the charge-collection magnitude of the device are determined empirically and can be combined with a digital reconstruction methodology to derive an accurate metal-correction factor that permits subsequent absolute dose-rate response measurements to be derived from laser measurements alone. Broad-area laser dose-rate testing can thereby be used to accurately determine the peak transient current, dose-rate response of semiconductor devices to penetrating electron, gamma- and x-ray irradiation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08481345&OS=08481345&RS=08481345
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08481345
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100927
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 249 431 filed Oct. 7 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to ionizing radiation effects in semiconductor devices and in particular to a method to determine the position dependant metal correction factor for dose rate equivalent laser testing of semiconductor devices. The method can improve the accuracy of laser based techniques in determining the absolute peak transient current induced in semiconductor devices exposed to high energy transient ionizing radiation.

Changes in the performance of semiconductor devices are a concern for systems with prolonged service lives that contain electronics that are not easily accessible for testing and replacement. Such effects are especially difficult to assess for devices that must be exposed to and function in transient ionizing radiation environments.

The use of infrared laser light to simulate the electrical effects of exposure to far more penetrating ionizing radiations such as x rays gamma rays energetic electrons or single ions is an established means of evaluating the localized radiation response of semiconductor devices. See J. S. Melinger et al. 84 2 690 1998 . Lower power near infrared bench top exposure systems have been developed that track relative changes in semiconductor device dose rate response based upon the fact that it is charge produced in the first few tens of microns of a silicon device that affects the electrically active regions of most modern semiconductor devices. See U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 019 311 and 7 375 332 which are incorporated herein by reference. In devices with moderately to heavily doped substrates electron hole pairs produced deeper in the device by more penetrating radiations recombine before they can diffuse to near surface circuit structures. Consequently levels of charge generation comparable to that produced by far more penetrating radiation can be generated in the near surface electrically active regions of a device with low power near infrared laser exposures.

In particular laser dose rate testing provides an efficient means to quantitatively track changes in the dose rate response of semiconductor devices in systems with prolonged service lives. Accordingly both focused and broad beam laser based dose rate measurement techniques have been used to detect and track the relative changes in the dose rate response of aging semiconductor devices. The purpose of the focused laser measurement system is to quantitatively and non destructively document the position dependent charge collection response of a semiconductor device e.g. silicon device to a specified radiation exposure. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 019 311. Using scanned pulsed focused 904 nm laser exposures the magnitude and time delay of the peak charge collection across a device die is imaged with micrometer resolution. Each laser pulse produces a concentration of electron hole pairs within the electrically active regions of the exposure area that is equivalent to a specified radiation environment. As the device die is rastered beneath the pulsed laser beam the charge collection magnitude and time delay measured at each exposure point is recorded to form quantitative two dimensional response images that can also be rendered as charge collection spectra i.e. histograms to create a response signature for the device. Device characterization with the focused laser system is complemented by a broad area pulsed 904 nm laser exposure system that illuminates the full device die. See U.S. Pat. No. 7 375 332. The purpose of this system is to quantify and track the full die s functional response to ionizing radiation. The full die response can be recorded as a peak transient current a change in the functional output of the device or other performance parameter.

However unlike x rays gamma rays or energetic electrons or ions laser light is blocked from penetrating into near surface regions where a device is overlain by opaque die metallization. This effect of shadowing by opaque metallizations is an inherent limitation in laser testing. Therefore the usefulness of these laser techniques for making absolute measurements of a device s dose rate response to a specified radiation environment has been limited by the fact that device die metallizations block the laser illumination of the semiconductor material e.g. silicon that lies directly beneath the opaque metal and thereby prevents the full replication of the charge generation effects that occur with more penetrating radiations. For example the extent of this shadowing can be seen from the charge collection image of a 54LS14 integrated circuit shown in . shows the position dependent charge collection response of a portion of a 54LS14 die corresponding to a single logic inverter among the six inverters fabricated in the die as spatially imaged with a focused laser system. shows the same region optically imaged with differential interference contrast microscopy. The outlines of distinct electrical diffusions are clearly visible in spite of the overlying metallizations. Diffused resistors can be distinguished from arsenic electrical diffusions and from unpatterned silicon and other diffused regions of the device.

In usual practice dose rate equivalent laser measurements are calibrated to electron or x ray exposures by adjusting the intensity of the incident laser beam so as to produce the same measured peak transient current from the device as was measured during an electron or x ray exposure of the same duration and known dose rate. Once the dose rate response of a device has been qualified by traditional x ray or linac based tests the laser based measurements can be used to establish a baseline device response for relative comparison with subsequent laser measurements of an aging device. However this calibration approach implicitly results in a higher density of charge generation in the exposed silicon regions of the device since no charge can be produced by the laser in the silicon covered by opaque metallizations. For example if one half of the surface area of a simple PIN diode were covered by opaque metallization the incident laser would need to generate twice as much charge in the exposed silicon in order to attain the same overall peak transient current from the die as would be produced by an equivalent dose rate exposure of electrons or x rays that could penetrate through the metal. Thus to the extent that an incident laser beam is blocked by opaque metallizations on the device die the generation of charge is correspondingly reduced and must be compensated for by either a increasing the incident laser intensity and thereby the corresponding charge generation within the exposed silicon or b generating the same electron hole pair density in the exposed silicon as would occur under electron or x ray irradiation and then correcting the resulting measurement for the presence of occluded silicon areas.

However the correction for the missing charge generation is not a simple multiplicative factor corresponding to the fractional area of metal coverage on the die the correction factor must be weighted by the charge collection efficiency of the silicon lying beneath the metal. In other words metal that covers regions of low charge collection requires less correction than metal that covers regions of high charge collection. As is visible in the micron resolution laser dose rate response images shown in charge collection can exhibit strong spatial dependence that must be factored into the metal correction factor derivation.

Therefore a need remains for a method to determine the position dependant metal correction factor for dose rate equivalent laser testing of semiconductor devices. Such a method would enable the determination of the absolute peak transient current response of a semiconductor device to ionizing radiation using bench top laser diagnostic techniques.

The present invention is directed to a method to determine a position dependant metal correction factor for dose rate equivalent laser testing of semiconductor devices. The method enables the laser based determination of the absolute peak transient current induced in a semiconductor device by a transient ionizing radiation pulse. The method uses micron resolution charge collection images produced by a focused laser irradiation apparatus to measure the position dependent and dose rate dependent charge collection magnitude across the unobstructed surfaces for example silicon surface of a semiconductor device die. By digitally extrapolating the position dependent charge collection magnitude of partially exposed charge collection regions into the occluded areas of the same circuit structure typically an electrical diffusion that can be identified via differential interference contrast microscopy or other means of imaging by an analyst a reconstructed image of the charge collection across the entire device die can be formed. A ratio of the total charge collection from the reconstructed image to that measured from the original occluded charge collection image at each measured dose rate can then be used to determine the appropriate dose rate dependent metal correction factor that should be applied to subsequent broad area dose rate equivalent laser testing of the device. This in turn provides a means to arrive at an accurate absolute measurement of the device s peak transient current response to ionizing radiation using simple bench top laser based diagnostic tools.

The present invention is directed to a method that utilizes digital image reconstruction of the charge collection magnitude from regions beneath opaque metallizations as determined from focused laser charge collection response images and thereby derives a dose rate dependent metal correction factor with which to correct subsequent broad area dose rate equivalent laser measurements. The metal correction factor incorporates both the dose rate dependence and the inherent position dependent charge collection efficiency of the semiconductor device and thereby permits absolute dose rate response measurements to be derived from broad beam laser tests alone. The method is generally applicable to any semiconductor device e.g. silicon germanium or III V semiconductor compounds but will be described specifically as related to an exemplary silicon semiconductor device.

The basis by which low power infrared laser light can be used to simulate the electrical effects of higher energy ionizing radiation is described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 019 311 and 7 375 332. Electrical charge i.e. electron hole pairs that are created along the path of an incident laser beam is separated and collected at semiconductor junctions by means of drift and diffusive charge transport processes and ultimately measured at device metallizations. However when the incident laser beam is blocked from entering the silicon of the device by overlying metallization layers no electrical charge can be generated or collected.

If one considers a broad area exposure of the device die as a combination of obstructed and unobstructed laser exposures comparable to laser beams and respectively only that portion of the incident broad area beam that is unobstructed will produce measurable charge. In usual practice dose rate equivalent laser measurements are calibrated to electron or x ray exposures by adjusting the intensity of the broad area incident laser beam so as to produce the same measured peak transient current from the device as was measured during an electron or x ray exposure of the same duration and known dose rate. However this calibration approach implicitly results in a higher density of charge generation in the exposed silicon regions of the device and still no charge generation in the silicon covered by opaque metallizations .

Below is described an example of the application of the method to the evaluation of the dose rate response of a commercial bipolar junction transistor and subsequent validation to experiment.

A spatially resolved dose rate response of the device can be measured using a focused laser irradiation apparatus at a specified dose rate. shows the metal obscured dose rate response images of the SGH3992 transistor a for equivalent dose rates of b 1 10rad Si s c 1 10rad Si s and d 2 10rad Si s. These measurements were made with the focused laser irradiation apparatus described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 019 311 using a focused 1 mW delivered 2 micron spot diameter 50 ns wide 904 nm laser pulse. All dose rate response images are rendered using a common gray scale extending from 1 to 200 femtoCoulombs of charge collection. As is apparent from comparison of the optical micrograph of the transistor die with each of the dose rate response images the opaque metal bond landings and effectively obscure the underlying silicon from laser interrogation. The selection of the dose rates at which focused laser charge collection images are measured can be determined by either the design specifications of the ultimate application of the device or by broad area laser measurements that may reveal non linear response features that warrant detailed examination.

In comparing the three dose rate response images it should be noted that not only is there a strong position dependence to the charge collection magnitude across the die but that this dependence does not simply mirror the shape of the underlying base diffusion . Additionally the strong dose rate dependence of the charge collection response is not spatially uniform across the die i.e. as the dose rate increases not all areas increase uniformly in collected charge . This is not intuitively obvious and is only revealed by the method of the present invention.

The micron resolution imaging permits the charge collection response around and between obstructions to be directly inspected and for devices with simple or known design layouts the charge collection from a partially obstructed circuit structure can be deduced by extrapolation of the response from exposed regions. A dose rate dependent metal correction factor can be derived from the focused laser does rate response images of the metal occluded die by digitally extrapolating the position dependent charge collection from exposed regions of each electrical diffusion into the occluded regions of the same electrical diffusion as identified via optical microscopy taking care to preserve the decreasing diffusive charge collection efficiency with distance.

Digital reconstruction of the occluded data image can be accomplished most simply by using a cut and past approach in which an analyst identifies regions that share common charge collection characteristics within the same electrical diffusion and then copies regions of pixels from unoccluded areas into adjacent occluded areas of the same diffusion. More sophisticated treatments can use digital image interpolation algorithms such as used in image re sizing de speckling or other filtering processes . An example of a simple cut and paste software interface is shown in along with several intermediate steps in the reconstruction process.

Beginning with the as measured occluded image shown in the analyst can first recognize that the charge collection visible between the interdigitated metal fingers in the central emitter diffusion is quite uniform. Since there is no physical or design reason to expect the charge collection characteristics beneath the metal to be different from those in the adjacent uncovered emitter region the assumption is made that data pixels from the un occluded regions of the emitter are representative of those in the metal occluded areas and can be copied into the adjacent occluded locations resulting in the first step in the reconstruction shown in . In this instance slight pixel to pixel measurement variations are preserved when copying a block of pixels from an un occluded to an occluded region of the same diffusion. A more sophisticated software embodiment could make use of digital image interpolation concepts utilized to Photoshop like applications that employ median filtering or other statistical sampling techniques to ascribe pixel values.

The region of high charge collection at the left and right edges of the emitter diffusion is reconstructed based on the unobstructed measurements present at the top and bottom edges of the emitter diffusion . This boundary of highest charge collection represents the prompt drift charge collection from the biased pn junction depletion region at the emitter base diffusion interface that extends around the entire emitter diffusion.

Extending out from the high charge collection perimeter of the emitter base junction a region of diffusive charge collection from the surrounding base diffusion can be seen in the as measured occluded data image. Again using the unobstructed regions extending vertically from the top and bottom of the emitter as a guide the characteristic diffusion length of the lateral charge collection from the base diffusion is preserved and recreated in the metal occluded regions of the base diffusion to the right of the emitter by copying the thin un occluded bands extending horizontally just above and below the opaque metal bond landings into the right hand occluded base region yielding the intermediate reconstruction shown in . A similar process is performed for the left hand bond landing region yielding the fully reconstructed image displayed in the software interface shown in . It can be noted that regions of diffusive charge collection are visible from both the surrounding base diffusion and the collector region surrounding the base. A histogram displaying the number of pixels as a function of their charge collection magnitude can be generated at any stage in the reconstruction process and is displayed in the lower right of the software interface.

A dose rate dependent metal correction factor can be calculated by dividing the total integrated charge collected from the digitally reconstructed die at the specified dose rate by the total integrated charge of the as measured occluded die at the same dose rate.

At each dose rate the total charge collection Q measured from a die is simply the sum of the charge collection magnitude of all the individual pixels in the data image.

Once the dose rate dependent correction factor has been derived from the focused laser dose rate data it is applied to subsequent broad area laser dose rate tests in order to determine an absolute peak transient current response of the semiconductor device to ionizing radiation. The total dose rate response of the device can be measured using a broad beam laser irradiation apparatus. For example the broad beam laser irradiation apparatus can be similar to that described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 375 332. The absolute peak transient current response of the semiconductor device can then be calculated by multiplying the measured total charge collection from the entire die by the dose rate dependant metal correction factor.

The test circuit used for both the electron beam and laser measurements biased the collector of the transistor at 20V allowed the emitter to float and measured the radiation induced base current across a 50 impedance into a digitizing oscilloscope.

The peak transient currents measured from the dose rate equivalent laser exposures were multiplied by the metal correction factors derived above and are plotted in black in . The metal corrected laser dose rate measurements of the peak transient current made on a laboratory bench top agree well with the corresponding 10 MeV electron beam measurements made at a linear accelerator facility.

The present invention has been described as a method to determine the position dependant metal correction factor for dose rate equivalent laser testing of semiconductor devices. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

