---

title: Thermoelectric generator
abstract: A thermoelectric generator has a hot side heat exchanger having a silicon carbide (SiC) honeycomb support with a plurality of passages. The passage walls are coated with a pyrophoric solid fuel such as red oxide (FeO) in combination with a silicon (Si) binder. A quantum well thermoelectric device is positioned between the hot side heat exchanger and heat sink. The performance of the thermoelectric generator is comparable to fuel cells. The thermoelectric generator is small and portable.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08445773&OS=08445773&RS=08445773
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08445773
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100225
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 155 168 filed Feb. 25 2009 for a Thermoelectric Generator the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to a thermoelectric generator. More particularly the invention relates to a thermoelectric generator with a heat source structure a heat sink and thermoelectric module there between. The invention relates to a thermoelectric generator with a heat source having a fuel composition on a shaped support.

Thermoelectric power TE generation is a solid state process that converts heat to electricity. At the present stage of development of the process the conversion of a heat producing fuel to electricity is relatively low. However the process has desirable characteristics including the absence of moving parts or vibration silence and ruggedness. For these reasons the process has potential for replacing batteries in certain applications. These applications include military space and civilian emergency applications where performance is of primary importance and cost is of lesser concern.

The electric power output of a thermoelectric generator is a function of the temperature difference across the thermoelectric device and the heat to power conversion efficiency of the thermoelectric device material. Thermoelectric efficiency of a material is measured by a figure of merit Z. The figure of merit is specific to each material and can be calculated according to the formula where 

 is the efficiency of a device in converting heat to electricity. It is related to the figure of merit and the Seebeck coefficient by the equation 

There is a need in the art for a thermoelectric generator that produces power at conventional battery voltages is lighter than an power equivalent batteries produces power longer than batteries and has an extended shelf life.

A thermoelectric generator comprises a hot side heat exchanger a cold side heat exchanger and a thermoelectric device between the hot side heat exchanger and the cold side heat exchanger.

The hot side heat exchanger comprises a honeycomb shaped support having a plurality of axially aligned passages. The passages are defined by partition walls. The partition walls are coated with a pyrophoric solid fuel.

A thermoelectric generator including the hot side heat exchanger produces electric current on contact of the pyrophoric fuel with air. In the absence of air the generator has a shelf life much longer than the shelf life of batteries.

Preferred embodiments of the invention are described with respect to the figures wherein the reference numerals in the following written description correspond to like numbered elements in the figures.

In this example the 40 mm width and 40 mm height provides space for a plurality of 361 passages. That is a density of 225625 passages meterof cross sectional area. In each passage has a square cross section with a width of 1 mm and a height of 1 mm. That gives a total flow area of 361 millimetersor 0.00361 meters. The length is the same as the length of the core 120 mm. Each passage is axially straight as defined by axial direction line . In general the length of the core ranges from 100 mm to 1000 mm. This provides a surface area of 400 mmto 4000 mm. The size of the core is selected to produce the amount of power required for the application.

The shape of heater core is generally rectangular and bounded by core exterior surface consisting essentially of four flat surfaces. Heater core may be cylindrical in which case exterior surface would be generally curved. The physical properties of the heater core are critical. During storage the heater core may be subjected to temperatures below 0 C. for extended periods of time. However in use the core operating temperature is usually about 320 C. and may be 500 C. depending on power demand. A control set point setting or temperature excursion may cause that temperature to be exceeded. The core must provide a stable support over the temperature range of 50 C. to 1000 C. without structural deformation cracking spalling losing surface area or otherwise changing shape composition or physical properties. Furthermore the core must be stable to thermal cycling over this temperature range and to temperature excursions.

A group of materials have been identified which can be formed into the required honeycomb shape and surface area. In general these materials have been used for catalyst support. In particular the materials are supports for carbon monoxide oxidation catalyst in an automobile catalytic converter. The catalytic converter treats the exhaust gas from automobiles and trucks. The materials are generally selected from the group consisting of silicon carbide SiC a silicon carbide metallic silicon mixture graphite alumina AlO zirconia ZrO yttria YO and cordierite. Silicon carbide SiC and graphite are preferred. Silicon carbide SiC is most preferred. Honeycomb supports made of these materials is commercially available either in the rectangular or cylindrical configuration. Based on performance and cost The most preferred honeycomb material is silicon carbide SiC . Silicon carbide SiC can be safely used up to a temperature of 1600 C. It is about one third the weight of copper or steel and can be molded and manufactured in any shape and size. It is commercially available in many sizes and dimensions of the required honeycomb shape.

The silicon carbide SiC honeycomb support useful for the invention is commercially available. The silicon carbide SiC honeycomb has the following physical properties.

It is also seen that the passages are defined by a horizontal partition wall and a vertical partition wall . Passage is shown to extend though heater core and to be bounded by horizontal partition wall and vertical partition wall . Of course horizontal and vertical are relative to the general orientation of heater core . Each passage has an internal surface area defined by the horizontal partition wall and the vertical partition wall that bounds it. In this example a single 120 mm long passage has a surface area of 480 millimeters. The core has 361 passages providing a total internal surface area for the core of 173 280 millimetersor 0.17328 meters.

The partition walls are coated with a pyrophoric solid fuel. The solid fuel ignites spontaneously on contact with air or other oxygen containing gas and burns to produce the heat for the generator to operate. The amount of air supplied to the pyrophoric solid fuel must be the amount necessary to achieve the required temperature differential across the thermoelectric device to provide the desired voltage. The operating temperature range is 320 C. to 500 C. Standard battery voltages are 1.5 volts 3 volts 6 volts 9 volts and 12 volts.

The pyrophoric solid fuel may be any fuel that is safe and effective for this purpose. Generally the solid fuel is selected from the group consisting of magnesium alloys aluminum alloys zirconium alloys iron oxides iron and mixtures thereof. Examples include Magnalium 50 50 magnesium aluminum magnesium oxide ferrous oxide zinc oxide and copper oxide. The preferred pyrophoric solid fuels do not include heavy or toxic metals such as mercury lead arsenic chromium VI selenium and the like.

Magnesium Mg and magnesium oxide MgO are preferred. The oxidation of magnesium is described by the reaction 2Mg O 2MgO heat Another preferred solid fuel is red oxide FeO which is particularly useful in combination with a silicon Si binder. The reaction is described as follows 2FeO 3Si 3SiO 4Fe

The pyrophoric solid fuel is reduced to a size so that it can be applied as a uniform coating on the inner surfaces of the solid support. For this purpose it is recommended that the solid fuel be reduced to a particle size of about 10 to 1000 nano meter nm . It was found experimentally that a particle size of 12 to 15 nano meter nm worked well in the above described core. The particle size provides for the coating of the partition walls without blocking the flow of air through the passages. The generator is not controllable if the flow area is blocked. Also particles of this size can be suspended uniformly in an organic binder for uniformity of application.

The solid fuel is applied in a uniform particle size and a uniform thickness on the surface so that hot spots in the core do not develop. Hot spots are undesirable because they cause temperature fluctuations that must be controlled by reducing air flow. From a control perspective temperature fluctuations are unsteady state and detrimental to producing uninterrupted electric power. The solid fuel is adhered to the honeycomb support by means of a binder. The binder provides the adhesion between the solid fuel and the honeycomb support. The binder also facilitates applying the solid fuel uniformly in the sense of heat generation over the partition walls. And in the case of silicon Si the binder also contributes to the oxidation reaction. The solid fuel may be applied as a gel or paste.

Suitable oxygen porous organic binders include polyethylene polypropylene polystyrene polymethyl methacrylate polyvinyl chloride polyvinylidene fluoride polyvinyl fluoride polyvinylidene chloride polychlorotrifluoroethylene polyethylene terephthalate polyvinyl acetate an ethylene vinyl ester copolymer polychloroprene polyisoprene polyurethane polyester polycarbonate polyamide polyether butyl rubber silicone based polymer or formaldehyde or butyraldehyde based vinyl polymer. Polyethylene polypropylene and polystyrene are preferred. Colloidal silica is also preferred because it can be combined with the fuel to form a uniform gel.

Mating surface is shown in the drawing. Mating surface in the drawing is both a horizontal surface and a vertical surface. The orientation is due to the square cross sectional dimension of heater core . If heater core were cylindrical in shape mating surface could though not necessarily be circular. Likewise mating surface is provided. During storage the fit between mating surfaces and and any cap not shown must be air tight in order to prevent intrusion of air into any passage and to maintain shelf life. With the caps not shown in place the shelf life of the generator is greater than that of a battery. However the exothermic reaction that takes place in heater core is self initiating once oxygen is introduced. Absent a cap heater core is in the power generating configuration without any further action.

The drawing shows two core exterior surfaces with six rectangular indentations defined by side wall and thermoelectric device mating surface . Out of view are six more rectangular indentations for a total of twelve on core . In the cross section seen in the thermoelectric device is pressed into the sides of heater core to provide for heat transfer from the heater core to the thermoelectric device. Means not shown may be provided to press the thermoelectric device against the mating surface. The mating surface provides for intimate contact facilitating heat transfer between heater core and a thermoelectric device. This space is slightly larger than the dimensions of the thermoelectric device so that a small space is left between side wall and thermoelectric device to allow for thermal expansion. Cold side heat exchanger is shown in contact with thermoelectric device .

Heat transfer may be enhanced by providing a thin coating not shown of thermal interface material on mating surface to reduce the resistance to heat transfer. Examples of thermal interface material include silver palladium gold carbon nanotubes and equivalent functioning materials. A thermoelectric device coated for this purpose with graphite in a polymer binder is commercially available.

Electrical contact points provide for withdrawing electric power from thermoelectric device . Electrical contact points are symbolic of wires for withdrawing electricity produced by the device.

The thermoelectric device is selected from any of the devices that are sold commercially for this purpose. A preferred thermoelectric device is referred to as a quantum well thermoelectric device. In general a quantum well thermoelectric device includes alternating p type and n type semiconductor elements arranged in series. The junction is typically made of doped bismuth telluride. The p type elements are heavily doped to create and excess of electrons. The n type elements are heavily doped to create a deficiency of electrons. Since each element of a semiconductor thermoelectric device produces only a few millivolts the elements are arranged in series of alternating elements to increase the output. Arrays are assembled with large numbers of elements arranged in a checkerboard pattern in order to achieve useful standard battery voltages.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 436 467 to N. B. Elsner et al. teaches a Superlattice Quantum Well Thermoelectric material. The patent is incorporated herein by reference as an example of a quantum well. Two other thermoelectric devices taught by way of example are incorporated herein by reference. U.S. Pat. No. 5 892 656 teaches a Thermoelectric Generator to J. C. Bass. U.S. Pat. No. 5 625 245 for a Thermoelectric Generator for Motor Vehicle to J. C. Bass teaches a thermoelectric device having dimensions of 2.1 inches by 2.1 inches by 0.2 inches. A differential temperature of 400 F. between a hot side heat exchanger and a cold side heat exchanger will produce 13 Watts at 1.55 volts.

Cold side heat exchanger is a heat sink in contact with thermoelectric device . Suitable heat sinks are commercially available. In general a heat sink has a metallic heat transfer surface in contact with a flowing heat transfer medium. In one alternative an electrically driven fan drives cooled air against an aluminum heat exchange surface. In another alternative water cooled aluminum block can be used. Heat sink technology is well known. Alternatives are commercially available and can be selection without unusual difficulty.

In air flow control valve provides flow regulation of air or other oxygen containing gas through air flow line to the core . Line passes a sample of off gas from core to sensor . Sensor senses any relevant physical parameter including oxygen composition carbon oxides composition and temperature. In this example sensor is an oxygen sensor. Oxygen sensor measures the amount of oxygen in the sample of off gas and sends signal proportional thereto to micro controller . Micro controller receives the signal from oxygen sensor indicative of oxygen content and compares that value with a set point value . Micro controller then sends signal to control valve that is proportional to the difference between the measured oxygen content and the set point oxygen content. This feedback control loop regulates the heat flow from core to thermoelectric device .

Thermoelectric device produces electricity based on the temperature difference between the temperature of the heat and the temperature of cold side heat exchanger . Cold side heat exchanger is a heat sink. Heat sink includes cooling fan which regulates the flow of air. In this capacity cooling fan includes a heat transfer medium flow regulator.

Electric power is withdrawn from thermoelectric device via contact point and wire . The electric power is passed to opto electric power conditioner . Opto electric power conditioner includes a voltage regulator and a switch. The function of the voltage regulator is control and adjustment of the voltage between low voltage power in the range of 1.5 volts to 12 volts typically 6 volts to 12 volts and high voltage power in the range of 12 volts to 500 volts. Opto electric power conditioner sends electric power to low voltage load and optionally to high voltage load . Low voltage power is passed from opto electric power conditioner via line to solid state switch . Solid state switch provides power via line to operate cooling fan and via line to operate oxygen sensor . The remaining low voltage power is provided via line to low voltage load . Low voltage load is a battery capacitor charger or any other low voltage power load or demand.

Opto electric power conditioner provides high voltage power if it is available from thermoelectric module . High voltage power is passed via line to opto electric isolator . Opto electric isolator provides power via line to high voltage load . Opto electric isolator functions to allow the transmission of power at a selected voltage and to prevent transmission of over voltage power. High voltage load is a battery capacitor charger or any other high voltage power load or demand.

Inventor contemplates that opto electric power conditioner opto electric isolator solid state switch oxygen sensor and micro controller will all be assembled on a single chip and the chip mounted on core with thermoelectric device and cold side heat exchanger .

Not shown in the drawing are the several types of containers used to hold core . The generator produces electricity spontaneously on contact with air. Accordingly the only exposure of the generator with air or other oxygen containing gas is by way of air flow controller . This necessitates that when the generator is not in use it be kept in an air tight canister. In addition to the canister end caps may be applied to mating surface and mating surface . When in use the generator is put in position so that contact points are connected to an electric power consumer. Examples of an electric power consumer are the electric system of a motor vehicle electronic equipment such as radios telephones and computers and electric lights.

Reference is made to which shows the specific energy in watt hours per kilogram Wh kg versus specific power in watts per kilogram W kg and with respect to time for the thermoelectric generator of the invention compared with conventional electric power sources. Time is plotted in seconds s and in hours h . The performance bands of operation are plotted for the following power sources.

As seen in the thermoelectric generator of the invention produces electric power consistent with the performance of a fuel cell.

In a second embodiment heat to the core is supplied by burning an available hydrocarbon fuel. A hydrocarbon fuel burner is positioned proximate partition walls of heater core . A fuel flow regulator controls the flow of fuel to the hydrocarbon fuel burner. With excess oxygen flame temperature depends on the fuel value of the hydrocarbon fuel supplied to the burner. Fuel gases include hydrogen and hydrocarbon fuel gases including methane acetylene propane butane natural gas and mixtures thereof. Liquid hydrocarbon fuels include gasoline diesel kerosene jet fuel and mixtures thereof. The liquid hydrocarbon fuels are first vaporized and passed to the fuel burner.

The fuel may be any gaseous or liquid hydrocarbon fuel that is safe and effective for this purpose. The theoretical potential for producing electricity of these hydrocarbon fuel gases is expressed by the adiabatic flame temperature.

Adiabatic flame temperature is a physical property of the hydrocarbon. However the burner is not operated under adiabatic conditions and the adiabatic flame temperature is not achieved. In fact the core temperature typically operates at temperatures below 1000 C. Another indicator of electricity producing potential is the combustion value of a fuel.

In this second embodiment the core is not heated by pyrophoric fuel. Accordingly it is not necessary to store the core in an air tight container. The hydrocarbon fuel must be ignited to begin the production of power.

In the laboratory a heater core was positioned on a stand so that axial direction line was vertical. The heater core like that described in was heated from below with a Bunsen burner. Laboratory gas was the sole fuel source. Combustion of laboratory gas produced a clear blue flame immediately below the heater core. The flame was close enough to the bottom of heater core so that combustion gas passed through the heater core.

The bench demonstration was instrumented with a digital computer that recorded temperature of the cold side heat exchanger temperature of the hot side heat exchanger voltage output and time. is a plot of the recorded data. In thermoelectric voltage in volts is plotted against the temperature difference Delta T in degrees Centigrade C. . reports thermoelectric voltage versus time.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

