---

title: Selectively organizing a recipient list based on external group data
abstract: An ungrouped list associated with a communication artifact can be identified. The information can be associated with a recipient, which can be a user registered within a computing system. Group data information associated with an external source can be received. The source can be a data source not associated with the artifact. The group data can include a group and/or a contact identifier. Recipient information from the recipient list can be associated with a group identifier if the recipient identifier is equivalent to the contact identifier within the group data. A grouped list can be generated from the associated data. A grouped list can be presented within an interface. The presenting can present recipient information within a logical grouping for at least a portion of the recipients of the ungrouped list. The grouping can be an organization of recipient information associated with the group identifier.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08566319&OS=08566319&RS=08566319
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08566319
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
Within an enterprise a communication such an electronic meeting invite can be conveyed to many recipients within the enterprise. The electronic meeting invite can include a recipient list e.g. contact list within the header of the invite. The header typically includes many fields such as a To From CC field which denotes recipients and or attendees. Often times the fields can present recipient information such as recipient names recipient email address and occasionally presence information.

One aspect of the disclosure can include a method a computer program product a system and an apparatus for selectively organizing a recipient list based on external group data. An ungrouped list associated with a communication artifact can be identified. The list can contain contact information including a recipient name and an identifier. The information can be associated with a contact which can be a user registered within a computing system. A group data associated with an external source can be received. The source can be a data source not directly associated with the artifact. The group data can be represented by a group and a contact identifier. Contact information from the recipient list can be associated with a group identifier in a situation where the recipient identifier is equivalent to the contact identifier within the group data. A grouped list can be generated from the associated data. A grouped list can be presented within an interface. The presenting in a graphical user interface GUI embodiment can visually display contact information within a logical grouping. In the case of a voice user interface VUI the group list can audibly present the contact information. In one embodiment recipient information for one or more of the groupings can be hidden. For example and in one specific situation recipient information and or grouping information related to a person in a user s contact list can be selectively hidden based on an assumption or configured setting that a user is most concerned with recipients outside his her contact list. In one embodiment the grouping can be an organization of the contact information associated with the group identifier.

Another aspect of the present disclosure can include a system a method a computer program product and an apparatus for selectively organizing a recipient list based on external group data. A grouping engine can be able to transform an ungrouped list associated with a communication artifact into a grouped list. The ungrouped and grouped list can include contact information. The contact information can be a recipient name and a recipient identifier. Each contact within the ungrouped list can be associated with a group when the contact is present within the group data. A data store can be configured to persist a group data associated with an external source. The external source can be a data source indirectly associated with the communication artifact. The group data can be a group identifier and a contact identifier.

In many instances header information of messages can become crowded with recipient information which can develop into a confusing and overwhelming obstacle for a user to examine. As a result it can often be difficult and time consuming for recipients of a meeting invitation or other such message to identify important attendees e.g. via recipient list associated with the meeting. Currently important recipients can be determined by manually analyzing the recipient list of the invite. Often times the recipient list is not organized in a familiar fashion and consequently important attendees can be overlooked. That is the manual process of examining meeting invites can be a time consuming and error prone process.

The present disclosure is a solution for selectively organizing a recipient list based on external group data. External group data can refer to data maintained in a data store external to a message containing header information . External group data can also refer to data maintained by a system external to a message processing handling system e.g. a meeting server an email server an Instant Messaging IM server another communication server etc. . In the solution a recipient list associated with a communication artifact can be identified. The communication artifact can be but is not limited to an email a meeting invite a calendar event a text exchange and the like. The recipient list can be organized utilizing external group data. External group data can include data retrieved from a communication application e.g. text exchange application directory service address book application and the like. Groupings obtained from group data can be utilized to organize the recipient list. In one instance contact information within an email header can be organized with group data obtained from a text exchange application. For example an address book can be organized using group data obtained from an IBM LOTUS SAMETIME contact list permitting familiar presentation of contact information within the address book.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions.

These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In step an ungrouped list associated with a communication artifact can be identified. The ungrouped list can include recipient information associated with the artifact. Recipient information can be associated with a recipient which can include but is not limited to an email address a username a unique identifier a screen name and the like. For example the recipient information can be an email address of a user. A recipient can be a user registered within a computing system associated with method . The communication artifact can include but is not limited to a calendar event a distribution list an email a meeting invite a text exchange and the like.

In step a grouping option can be selected. Selection can be automatically and or manually established. In one instance a user can select a grouping option from a set of available grouping options. In the instance an interface can present a user with grouping options permitting customizable organization of a recipient list. In step group data can be collected for the selected grouping option. Group data can be automatically obtained from one or more sources including but not limited to an application a service a Web based service an Application Programming Interface API and the like. Group data can include contact information and an associated grouping. Contact information can be associated with a contact entry corresponding to a user registered within a computing system. Contact information can include but is not limited to name email address mailing address home address phone number notes and the like. In step a recipient can be selected from the ungrouped list.

In step if a selected recipient exists within the group data the method can continue to step else return to step . That is a recipient can be matched against a contact within the group data to determine when the recipient belongs to a group within the group data. Step can be completed in any traditional and or proprietary manner. In step the selected recipient can be assigned to a group corresponding to group data. In step if more recipients are available within the ungrouped list the method can return to step else continue to step . In step a grouped list can be generated based on group data. In one instance the grouped list can replace the ungrouped list within the communication artifact. In step the grouped list can be presented with the communication artifact. In one instance the grouped list can be visually distinct indicating one or more groups of recipients. Grouped lists can also be audibly presented in a voice user interface VUI . In one embodiment the groups can be filtered to hide a portion of the recipient information which from configurable settings are believed to be unimportant to a recipient. In one embodiment the groups can be presented within a user interface as a set of expandable nodes which can hide group specific information when a group node is collapsed e.g. see Group C of interface . Further any number of information suppression organization techniques can be optionally implemented. For example in one embodiment a flyover window can be activated showing recipients in a group where activation occurs responsive to a GUI pointer hovering over a group name for a predetermined duration. In step the method can end.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. Steps can be iteratively repeated for each recipient within the ungrouped list. In one instance method can be performed for each communication artifact within a communication server. In the instance a user profile can configure method to be executed selectively for each communication artifact associated with the user. For example when a communication artifact is received by the communication server method can be automatically executed upon the artifact. It should be appreciated that grouped list can include subgroups which can be arbitrarily limited and or unlimited.

In interface a To field including recipient information can be presented utilizing a user selectable grouping scheme. It should be appreciated that traditional email header fields can be selectively omitted for clarity. Embodiments for organizing traditional and or proprietary fields containing recipient information can be contemplated. Interface can be a component of an email application text exchange application and the like. Interface can include traditional and or proprietary interface elements. Interface elements can include but is not limited to checkboxes radio dialog input boxes and the like. Functionality presented within interface can be available via one or more mechanisms including a context menu a file menu and the like.

In email header or other group information storing memory structure recipient information can be organized into a group utilizing interface artifact . Artifact can permit user selection of groupings which can be available. For example header can be organized into familiar social networking contact groups through selection of a social network entry within artifact . It should be appreciated that multiple social networking sources can be supported permitting selection of preferred social networking relationship groupings. In one instance artifact can be a drop down selection box for manipulating grouping of recipient list information associated with email header . In one embodiment email header can be organized in real time in response to a user interaction with artifact . In the embodiment selection of an entry within artifact can dynamically alter grouping of recipient list information.

In one embodiment recipient information associated with email header or other metadata section of a message or other memory location containing the grouping and recipient information can be organized in a visually distinct manner. In the embodiment recipient information can be formatted into a collapsible tree structure. In the embodiment recipient information can be selectively hidden and or presented based on user interaction with interface elements. Groupings can be organized utilizing one or more group data sources including but not limited to address book groups social network groups distribution list groups text exchange groups and the like.

Grouping element can be an interface element indicating a group associated with recipient information . Grouping element can include but is not limited to a name a group identifier a group value a user defined value and the like. In one instance grouping element can be associated with a graphical element . In the instance element can be a graphical icon representing a grouping. For example icon can be a familiar system icon permitting rapid determination of a group type.

Recipient information can be presented in one or more user customizable fashions including but not limited to traditional and or non traditional organizations. In one instance recipient information can be organized in alphabetical order. In another instance recipient information can be organized in order based on relationship information associated with the recipient. For instance social network group data can be used to organize recipient information . In one embodiment the recipient information can be expanded upon to show a variety of recipient specific values such as name address phone number organization position presence information and the like. For example in one embodiment a flyover window with additional information can be dynamically presented responsive to a GUI pointer hovering over the recipient identifier for a previously established duration.

Grouping can be an interface element indicating a group associated with recipient information. In one embodiment grouping can include graphical element associated with a recipient information e.g. recipient email address . In the embodiment graphical element can be used to indicate presence information. For instance the disclosure can support traditional presence e.g. online away notifications.

It should be appreciated that the grouping information layout and elements of the interface are not intended to be comprehensive and that other specific arrangements are contemplated. For example in one embodiment an inverse grouping e.g. element can exist so that a set of recipients no in a user designated group or set of groups can be shown. For example all recipients not in a person s contact list can be shown which would be an example of an inverse group. Further group based inclusion exclusion filters e.g. white and black lists can be configured in one embodiment.

In scenario group data can be received as input to a grouping engine . Group data can be obtained from one or more sources including but not limited to historic grouping information manually established grouping information and the like. It should be appreciated that group data is presented as an exemplary data set and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard.

In one instance scenario associated with a portion of a collaboration software. In the instance the collaboration software can be a portion of an electronic meeting system Web conferencing software and the like. In one embodiment engine can produce multiple variants of grouped list from an ungrouped list .

In one embodiment group data can be persisted within engine permitting rapid re organization of grouped list . In the embodiment group data can be persisted within a data store associated with engine .

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one instance an email header and a corresponding message body can be organized using group data. In one embodiment grouping engine can iteratively process grouped list to enable multiple organizational schemes to be applied to the grouped list . It should be appreciated that each grouping can be customizable permitting unique visual presentations to be achieved. It should be noted that interface artifact can be customized through automatic and or manual procedures. Interface can be a graphical user interface GUI voice user interface VUI mixed mode interface text based interface and the like.

Communication server can be a hardware software entity for conveying communication artifact to one or more destinations. Communication server can include but is not limited to grouping engine grouping communication artifact interface data store and the like. Communication server can be a component of calendaring system mail server e.g. mail transfer agent conferencing server and the like. Server can be communicatively linked to one or more clients not shown . In one embodiment server can be a component of an IBM LOTUS DOMINO server.

Grouping engine can be a hardware software entity for selectively organizing a recipient list utilizing external group data . Grouping engine can include but is not limited to application manager list handler configuration setting and the like. In one instance engine can be a network element within a networked computing environment. In another instance engine functionality can be encapsulated as a Web enabled service. In the instance engine can be utilized by any application existing within system permitting application extensibility. That is engine can permit an existing application to gain customizable recipient list organizational schemes without requiring modification to the application.

Application manager can be a hardware software element for registering external data sources for obtaining group data . In one instance application manager can automatically detect relevant sources to obtain group data . In the instance manager can utilized a registry of data sources to determine group data source. In another instance manager can be manually configured to select data sources for group data . In the instance configuration setting can permit manual selection of group data source.

List handler can be a hardware software entity for managing ungrouped list and or grouped list . In one instance list handler can be a high order function algorithm permitting organization of list . In the instance list handler can be a filter which can be dynamically applied to list . The algorithm can be a portion a computer program associated with a computing programming language. Computer programming language can include but is not limited to C C Practical Extraction and Reporting Language PERL Python and the like. In one instance list handler can compare list to group data to determine relevant groupings for list . For instance handler can utilize an injective function to determine when a recipient from list exists within a group data 

Configuration setting can be one or more options for establishing the behavior of system and or engine . Setting can include but is not limited to grouping options application manager settings list handler settings caching options and the like. Setting can be configured through one or more user interfaces including but not limited to a user interface a client user interface and the like. Setting can be automatically and or manually established. In one instance setting can be heuristically determined. In one instance configuration setting can permit prioritization of data sources of group data . In the instance prioritization can be determined automatically and or manually based on historic settings application settings and the like.

Grouped list can be one or more data sets permitting recipient information to be associated with a group. For example in entry a Recip A can be associated with a group Group A. Grouped list can include but is not limited to recipient identifier group identifier group label and the like. Grouped list can be a dynamically created for each communication artifact . Grouped list can be responsively updated when changes within application and or group data occur. It should be appreciated that grouped list can permit a one to one mapping a one to many mapping a many to one mapping and the like. For instance when a contact belongs to multiple groups within an application grouped list can be utilized to persist the relationship.

Communication artifact can be a digitally encoded entity associated with a recipient list e.g. ungrouped list . Artifact encoding can include but is not limited to binary text and the like. It should be appreciated that artifact can be stored within server within a data store e.g. data store and the like. In one embodiment artifact can include multiple ungrouped lists . In one instance artifact can be associated with a payload e.g. message body which can include a contact list. In the instance the contact list within the payload can be arranged in a similar fashion utilizing engine . In one embodiment communication artifact can be a software element within an application. In the embodiment a contact list within a text document associated with a word processor program can be organized utilizing group data .

Ungrouped list can be a data set of recipient information associated with a communication artifact . Ungrouped list can be an ordered list unordered list and the like. List can be a computing data structure conforming to an array an associative array a list a linked list and the like.

Grouped list can be a data set of recipient information associated with a communication artifact and a group data . Grouped list can include but is not limited to groups sub groups and the like. List can be a computing data structure conforming to an array an associative array a list a linked list and the like.

Data store can be a computer readable medium for persisting grouped list . Data store can be a networked attached storage NAS Storage Area Network SAN and the like. Data store can be a component of a Relational Database Management System RDMS Object Oriented Database Management System OODBMS and the like.

Application server can be a hardware software entity for executing communication application . Server can include but is not limited to a communication application a data store not shown and the like. In one instance server can be an IBM WEBSPHERE APPLICATION SERVER.

Communication application can be a software program able to store group data associated with contact information. Application can include but is not limited to email application calendaring application text exchange software social networking application and the like. Application can include but is not limited to a desktop application mobile application Web based application and the like.

Group data can be a data set comprising of a grouping information and a contact information associated with an application . Grouping information can include but is not limited to a group identifier a group label a group permission an image a multimedia data and the like. Group data can include one or more traditional and or proprietary formats stored within application .

It should be understood that system can be associated with a Service Oriented Architecture. It should be appreciated that system can include but is not limited to a distributed computing environment networked computing environment cloud computing environment and the like. Data structures associated with system can include but is not limited to Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML and the like. It should be appreciated that data within system can be protected through one or more traditional and or proprietary mechanisms. Mechanisms can include but is not limited to encryption authentication and the like.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

