---

title: Semiconducting compounds and devices incorporating same
abstract: Disclosed are semiconducting compounds having one or more phthalimide units and/or one or more head-to-head (H-H) substituted biheteroaryl units. Such compounds can be monomeric, oligomeric, or polymeric, and can exhibit desirable electronic properties and possess processing advantages including solution−processability and/or good stability at ambient conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08927971&OS=08927971&RS=08927971
owner: University of Kentucky Research Foundation
number: 08927971
owner_city: Lexington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100406
---
This application claims priority to and the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 166 896 filed on Apr. 6 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. CHE 0616759 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The government has certain rights in the invention.

A new generation of optoelectronic devices such as organic thin film transistors OTFTs organic light emitting transistors OLETs organic light emitting diodes OLEDs printable circuits organic photovoltaic OPV devices electrochemical capacitors and sensors are built upon organic semiconductors as their active components. To enable high device efficiencies such as large charge carrier mobilities needed for transistor circuit operations or efficient exciton formation splitting that is necessary for OLED OPV operations it is desirable that both p type and n type organic semiconductor materials are available. In addition certain optoelectronic devices such as light emitting transistors require a semiconductor material which can transport both types of charge carriers efficiently. Furthermore these organic semiconductor based devices should exhibit satisfactory stability in ambient conditions and should be processable in a cost effective manner. For example a benchmark polymer regioregular poly 3 hexylthiophene rr P3HT can provide hole mobilities 0.1 cm Vs and current modulation 10 close to amorphous silicon but only under inert atmosphere.

Accordingly the art desires new organic semiconductor materials particularly those that can have good charge transport characteristics processing properties and stability in ambient conditions.

In light of the foregoing the present teachings provide organic semiconductor materials that are prepared from monomeric oligomeric and polymeric compounds having one or more phthalimide units and or one or more head to head H H substituted biheteroaryl units. Also provided are associated devices and related methods for the preparation and use of these compounds. The present compounds can exhibit properties such as excellent charge transport characteristics in ambient conditions chemical stability low temperature processability large solubility in common solvents and processing versatility e.g. via various solution processes . As a result field effect devices such as thin film transistors that incorporate one or more of the present compounds as the semiconductor layer can exhibit high performance in ambient conditions for example demonstrating one or more of large charge carrier mobilities low threshold voltages and high current on off ratios. Similarly other organic semiconductor based devices such as OPVs OLETs and OLEDs can be fabricated efficiently using the organic semiconductor materials described herein.

The present teachings also provide methods of preparing such compounds and semiconductor materials as well as various compositions composites and devices that incorporate the compounds and semiconductor materials disclosed herein.

The foregoing as well as other features and advantages of the present teachings will be more fully understood from the following figures description examples and claims.

The present teachings provide organic semiconductor materials that are prepared from monomeric oligomeric and polymeric compounds having one or more phthalimide units and or one or more head to head H H substituted biheteroaryl units. Compounds of the present teachings can exhibit semiconductor behavior such as high carrier mobility and or good current modulation characteristics in a field effect device light absorption charge separation in a photovoltaic device and or charge transport recombination light emission in a light emitting device. In addition the present compounds can possess certain processing advantages such as solution processability and or good stability for example air stability in ambient conditions. The compounds of the present teachings can be used to prepare p type n type or ambipolar semiconductor materials which in turn can be used to fabricate various organic electronic articles structures and devices including field effect transistors unipolar circuitries complementary circuitries photovoltaic devices and light emitting devices.

Throughout the application where compositions are described as having including or comprising specific components or where processes are described as having including or comprising specific process steps it is contemplated that compositions of the present teachings also consist essentially of or consist of the recited components and that the processes of the present teachings also consist essentially of or consist of the recited process steps.

In the application where an element or component is said to be included in and or selected from a list of recited elements or components it should be understood that the element or component can be any one of the recited elements or components and can be selected from a group consisting of two or more of the recited elements or components. Further it should be understood that elements and or features of a composition an apparatus or a method described herein can be combined in a variety of ways without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings whether explicit or implicit herein.

The use of the terms include includes including have has or having should be generally understood as open ended and non limiting unless specifically stated otherwise.

The use of the singular herein includes the plural and vice versa unless specifically stated otherwise. In addition where the use of the term about is before a quantitative value the present teachings also include the specific quantitative value itself unless specifically stated otherwise. As used herein the term about refers to a 10 variation from the nominal value unless otherwise indicated or inferred.

It should be understood that the order of steps or order for performing certain actions is immaterial so long as the present teachings remain operable. Moreover two or more steps or actions may be conducted simultaneously.

As used herein an oligomeric compound or oligomer or a polymeric compound or polymer refers to a molecule including a plurality of one or more repeating units connected by covalent chemical bonds. An oligomeric or polymeric compound can be represented by the general formula M wherein M is the repeating unit or monomer. The degree of polymerization can range from 2 to greater than 10 000. For example for oligomeric compounds the degree of polymerization can range from 2 to 9 and for polymeric compounds the degree of polymerization can range from 10 to about 10 000. The oligomeric or polymeric compound can have only one type of repeating unit as well as two or more types of different repeating units. When a polymeric compound has only one type of repeating unit it can be referred to as a homopolymer. When a polymeric compound has two or more types of different repeating units the term copolymer or copolymeric compound can be used instead. The oligomeric or polymeric compound can be linear or branched. Branched polymers can include dendritic polymers such as dendronized polymers hyperbranched polymers brush polymers also called bottle brushes and the like. Unless specified otherwise the assembly of the repeating units in the copolymer can be head to tail head to head or tail to tail. In addition unless specified otherwise the copolymer can be a random copolymer an alternating copolymer or a block copolymer. For example the general formula 

As used herein a cyclic moiety can include one or more e.g. 1 6 carbocyclic or heterocyclic rings. The cyclic moiety can be a cycloalkyl group a heterocycloalkyl group an aryl group or a heteroaryl group i.e. can include only saturated bonds or can include one or more unsaturated bonds regardless of aromaticity each including for example 3 24 ring atoms and can be optionally substituted as described herein. In embodiments where the cyclic moiety is a monocyclic moiety the monocyclic moiety can include a 3 14 membered aromatic or non aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring. A monocyclic moiety can include for example a phenyl group or a 5 or 6 membered heteroaryl group each of which can be optionally substituted as described herein. In embodiments where the cyclic moiety is a polycyclic moiety the polycyclic moiety can include two or more rings fused to each other i.e. sharing a common bond and or connected to each other via a spiro atom or one or more bridged atoms. A polycyclic moiety can include an 8 24 membered aromatic or non aromatic carbocyclic or heterocyclic ring such as a Caryl group or an 8 24 membered heteroaryl group each of which can be optionally substituted as described herein.

As used herein a fused ring or a fused ring moiety refers to a polycyclic ring system having at least two rings where at least one of the rings is aromatic and such aromatic ring carbocyclic or heterocyclic has a bond in common with at least one other ring that can be aromatic or non aromatic and carbocyclic or heterocyclic. These polycyclic ring systems can be highly conjugated and can include polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons such as rylenes or analogs thereof containing one or more heteroatoms having the formula 

As used herein alkyl refers to a straight chain or branched saturated hydrocarbon group. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl Me ethyl Et propyl e.g. n propyl and iso propyl butyl e.g. n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl pentyl groups e.g. n pentyl iso pentyl neopentyl hexyl groups and the like. In various embodiments an alkyl group can have 1 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Calkyl group for example 1 20 carbon atoms i.e. Calkyl group . In some embodiments an alkyl group can have 1 to 6 carbon atoms and can be referred to as a lower alkyl group. Examples of lower alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl e.g. n propyl and iso propyl and butyl groups e.g. n butyl iso butyl sec butyl tert butyl . In some embodiments alkyl groups can be substituted as described herein. An alkyl group is generally not substituted with another alkyl group an alkenyl group or an alkynyl group.

As used herein haloalkyl refers to an alkyl group having one or more halogen substituents. At various embodiments a haloalkyl group can have 1 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Chaloalkyl group for example 1 to 20 carbon atoms i.e. Chaloalkyl group . Examples of haloalkyl groups include CF CF CHF CHF CCl CHCl CHCl CCl and the like. Perhaloalkyl groups i.e. alkyl groups where all of the hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms e.g. CFand CF are included within the definition of haloalkyl. For example a Chaloalkyl group can have the formula CHX where X at each occurrence is F Cl Br or I s is an integer in the range of 1 to 40 and t is an integer in the range of 1 to 81 provided that t is less than or equal to 2s 1. Haloalkyl groups that are not perhaloalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein alkoxy refers to O alkyl group. Examples of alkoxy groups include but are not limited to methoxy ethoxy propoxy e.g. n propoxy and isopropoxy t butoxy pentoxy hexoxy groups and the like. The alkyl group in the O alkyl group can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein alkylthio refers to an S alkyl group which in some cases can be expressed as S O alkyl wherein w is 0 . Examples of alkylthio groups include but are not limited to methylthio ethylthio propylthio e.g. n propylthio and isopropylthio t butylthio pentylthio hexylthio groups and the like. The alkyl group in the S alkyl group can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein arylalkyl refers to an alkyl aryl group where the arylalkyl group is covalently linked to the defined chemical structure via the alkyl group. An arylalkyl group is within the definition of a Y Caryl group where Y is a divalently alkyl group. An example of an arylalkyl group is a benzyl group CH CH . An arylalkyl group can be optionally substituted i.e. the aryl group and or the alkyl group can be substituted as disclosed herein.

As used herein alkenyl refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having one or more carbon carbon double bonds. Examples of alkenyl groups include ethenyl propenyl butenyl pentenyl hexenyl butadienyl pentadienyl hexadienyl groups and the like. The one or more carbon carbon double bonds can be internal such as in 2 butene or terminal such as in 1 butene . In various embodiments an alkenyl group can have 2 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Calkenyl group for example 2 to 20 carbon atoms i.e. Calkenyl group . In some embodiments alkenyl groups can be substituted as described herein. An alkenyl group is generally not substituted with another alkenyl group an alkyl group or an alkynyl group.

As used herein alkynyl refers to a straight chain or branched alkyl group having one or more triple carbon carbon bonds. Examples of alkynyl groups include ethynyl propynyl butynyl pentynyl hexynyl and the like. The one or more triple carbon carbon bonds can be internal such as in 2 butyne or terminal such as in 1 butyne . In various embodiments an alkynyl group can have 2 to 40 carbon atoms i.e. Calkynyl group for example 2 to 20 carbon atoms i.e. Calkynyl group . In some embodiments alkynyl groups can be substituted as described herein. An alkynyl group is generally not substituted with another alkynyl group an alkyl group or an alkenyl group.

As used herein cycloalkyl refers to a non aromatic carbocyclic group including cyclized alkyl alkenyl and alkynyl groups. In various embodiments a cycloalkyl group can have 3 to 24 carbon atoms for example 3 to 20 carbon atoms e.g. Ccycloalkyl group . A cycloalkyl group can be monocyclic e.g. cyclohexyl or polycyclic e.g. containing fused bridged and or spiro ring systems where the carbon atoms are located inside or outside of the ring system. Any suitable ring position of the cycloalkyl group can be covalently linked to the defined chemical structure. Examples of cycloalkyl groups include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl cycloheptyl cyclopentenyl cyclohexenyl cyclohexadienyl cycloheptatrienyl norbornyl norpinyl norcaryl adamantyl and spiro 4.5 decanyl groups as well as their homologs isomers and the like. In some embodiments cycloalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein heteroatom refers to an atom of any element other than carbon or hydrogen and includes for example nitrogen oxygen silicon sulfur phosphorus and selenium.

As used herein cycloheteroalkyl refers to a non aromatic cycloalkyl group that contains at least one ring heteroatom selected from O S Se N P and Si e.g. O S and N and optionally contains one or more double or triple bonds. A cycloheteroalkyl group can have 3 to 24 ring atoms for example 3 to 20 ring atoms e.g. 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group . One or more N P S or Se atoms e.g. N or S in a cycloheteroalkyl ring may be oxidized e.g. morpholine N oxide thiomorpholine S oxide thiomorpholine S S dioxide . In some embodiments nitrogen or phosphorus atoms of cycloheteroalkyl groups can bear a substituent for example a hydrogen atom an alkyl group or other substituents as described herein. Cycloheteroalkyl groups can also contain one or more oxo groups such as oxopiperidyl oxooxazolidyl dioxo 1H 3H pyrimidyl oxo 2 1H pyridyl and the like. Examples of cycloheteroalkyl groups include among others morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl pyranyl imidazolidinyl imidazolinyl oxazolidinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydrothiophenyl piperidinyl piperazinyl and the like. In some embodiments cycloheteroalkyl groups can be substituted as described herein.

As used herein aryl refers to an aromatic monocyclic hydrocarbon ring system or a polycyclic ring system in which two or more aromatic hydrocarbon rings are fused i.e. having a bond in common with together or at least one aromatic monocyclic hydrocarbon ring is fused to one or more cycloalkyl and or cycloheteroalkyl rings. An aryl group can have 6 to 24 carbon atoms in its ring system e.g. Caryl group which can include multiple fused rings. In some embodiments a polycyclic aryl group can have 8 to 24 carbon atoms. Any suitable ring position of the aryl group can be covalently linked to the defined chemical structure. Examples of aryl groups having only aromatic carbocyclic ring s include phenyl 1 naphthyl bicyclic 2 naphthyl bicyclic anthracenyl tricyclic phenanthrenyl tricyclic pentacenyl pentacyclic and like groups. Examples of polycyclic ring systems in which at least one aromatic carbocyclic ring is fused to one or more cycloalkyl and or cycloheteroalkyl rings include among others benzo derivatives of cyclopentane i.e. an indanyl group which is a 5 6 bicyclic cycloalkyl aromatic ring system cyclohexane i.e. a tetrahydronaphthyl group which is a 6 6 bicyclic cycloalkyl aromatic ring system imidazoline i.e. a benzimidazolinyl group which is a 5 6 bicyclic cycloheteroalkyl aromatic ring system and pyran i.e. a chromenyl group which is a 6 6 bicyclic cycloheteroalkyl aromatic ring system . Other examples of aryl groups include benzodioxanyl benzodioxolyl chromanyl indolinyl groups and the like. In some embodiments aryl groups can be substituted as described herein. In some embodiments an aryl group can have one or more halogen substituents and can be referred to as a haloaryl group. Perhaloaryl groups i.e. aryl groups where all of the hydrogen atoms are replaced with halogen atoms e.g. CF are included within the definition of haloaryl. In certain embodiments an aryl group is substituted with another aryl group and can be referred to as a biaryl group. Each of the aryl groups in the biaryl group can be substituted as disclosed herein.

As used herein heteroaryl refers to an aromatic monocyclic ring system containing at least one ring heteroatom selected from oxygen O nitrogen N sulfur S silicon Si and selenium Se or a polycyclic ring system where at least one of the rings present in the ring system is aromatic and contains at least one ring heteroatom. Polycyclic heteroaryl groups include those having two or more heteroaryl rings fused together as well as those having at least one monocyclic heteroaryl ring fused to one or more aromatic carbocyclic rings non aromatic carbocyclic rings and or non aromatic cycloheteroalkyl rings. A heteroaryl group as a whole can have for example 5 to 24 ring atoms and contain 1 5 ring heteroatoms i.e. 5 20 membered heteroaryl group . The heteroaryl group can be attached to the defined chemical structure at any heteroatom or carbon atom that results in a stable structure. Generally heteroaryl rings do not contain O O S S or S O bonds. However one or more N or S atoms in a heteroaryl group can be oxidized e.g. pyridine N oxide thiophene S oxide thiophene S S dioxide . Examples of heteroaryl groups include for example the 5 or 6 membered monocyclic and 5 6 bicyclic ring systems shown below 

Compounds of the present teachings can include a divalent group defined herein as a linking group capable of forming a covalent bond with two other moieties. For example compounds of the present teachings can include a divalent Calkyl group e.g. a methylene group a divalent Calkenyl group e.g. a vinylyl group a divalent Calkynyl group e.g. an ethynylyl group . a divalent Caryl group e.g. a phenylyl group a divalent 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group e.g. a pyrrolidylyl and or a divalent 5 14 membered heteroaryl group e.g. a thienylyl group . Generally a chemical group e.g. Ar is understood to be divalent by the inclusion of the two bonds before and after the group.

The electron donating or electron withdrawing properties of several hundred of the most common substituents reflecting all common classes of substituents have been determined quantified and published. The most common quantification of electron donating and electron withdrawing properties is in terms of Hammett values. Hydrogen has a Hammett value of zero while other substituents have Hammett values that increase positively or negatively in direct relation to their electron withdrawing or electron donating characteristics. Substituents with negative Hammett values are considered electron donating while those with positive Hammett values are considered electron withdrawing. See Lange s Handbook of Chemistry 12th ed. McGraw Hill 1979 Table 3 12 pp. 3 134 to 3 138 which lists Hammett values for a large number of commonly encountered substituents and is incorporated by reference herein.

It should be understood that the term electron accepting group can be used synonymously herein with electron acceptor and electron withdrawing group . In particular an electron withdrawing group EWG or an electron accepting group or an electron acceptor refers to a functional group that draws electrons to itself more than a hydrogen atom would if it occupied the same position in a molecule. Examples of electron withdrawing groups include but are not limited to halogen or halo e.g. F Cl Br I NO CN NC S R N R SOH SOR SOR SONHR SON R COOH COR COOR CONHR CON R Chaloalkyl groups Caryl groups and 5 14 membered electron poor heteroaryl groups where Ris a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Calkynyl group a Chaloalkyl group a Calkoxy group a Caryl group a Ccycloalkyl group a 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group and a 5 14 membered heteroaryl group each of which can be optionally substituted as described herein. For example each of the Calkyl group the Calkenyl group the Calkynyl group the Chaloalkyl group the Calkoxy group the Caryl group the Ccycloalkyl group the 3 14 membered cycloheteroalkyl group and the 5 14 membered heteroaryl group can be optionally substituted with 1 5 small electron withdrawing groups such as F Cl Br NO CN NC S R N R SOH SOR SOR SONHR SON R COOH COR COOR CONHR and CON R .

It should be understood that the term electron donating group can be used synonymously herein with electron donor . In particular an electron donating group or an electron donor refers to a functional group that donates electrons to a neighboring atom more than a hydrogen atom would if it occupied the same position in a molecule. Examples of electron donating groups include OH OR NH NHR N R and 5 14 membered electron rich heteroaryl groups where Ris a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Calkynyl group a Caryl group or a Ccycloalkyl group.

Various unsubstituted heteroaryl groups can be described as electron rich or excessive or electron poor or deficient . Such classification is based on the average electron density on each ring atom as compared to that of a carbon atom in benzene. Examples of electron rich systems include 5 membered heteroaryl groups having one heteroatom such as furan pyrrole and thiophene and their benzofused counterparts such as benzofuran benzopyrrole and benzothiophene. Examples of electron poor systems include 6 membered heteroaryl groups having one or more heteroatoms such as pyridine pyrazine pyridazine and pyrimidine as well as their benzofused counterparts such as quinoline isoquinoline quinoxaline cinnoline phthalazine naphthyridine quinazoline phenanthridine acridine and purine. Mixed heteroaromatic rings can belong to either class depending on the type number and position of the one or more heteroatom s in the ring. See Katritzky A. R and Lagowski J. M. John Wiley Sons New York 1960 .

At various places in the present specification substituents are disclosed in groups or in ranges. It is specifically intended that the description include each and every individual subcombination of the members of such groups and ranges. For example the term Calkyl is specifically intended to individually disclose C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C and C Calkyl. By way of other examples an integer in the range of 0 to 40 is specifically intended to individually disclose 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 and 40 and an integer in the range of 1 to 20 is specifically intended to individually disclose 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 and 20. Additional examples include that the phrase optionally substituted with 1 5 substituents is specifically intended to individually disclose a chemical group that can include 0 1 2 3 4 5 0 5 0 4 0 3 0 2 0 1 1 5 1 4 1 3 1 2 2 5 2 4 2 3 3 5 3 4 and 4 5 substituents.

Compounds described herein can contain an asymmetric atom also referred as a chiral center and some of the compounds can contain two or more asymmetric atoms or centers which can thus give rise to optical isomers enantiomers and diastereomers geometric isomers . The present teachings include such optical isomers and diastereomers including their respective resolved enantiomerically or diastereomerically pure isomers e.g. or stereoisomer and their racemic mixtures as well as other mixtures of the enantiomers and diastereomers. In some embodiments optical isomers can be obtained in enantiomerically enriched or pure form by standard procedures known to those skilled in the art which include for example chiral separation diastereomeric salt formation kinetic resolution and asymmetric synthesis. The present teachings also encompass cis and trans isomers of compounds containing alkenyl moieties e.g. alkenes azo and imines . It also should be understood that the compounds of the present teachings encompass all possible regioisomers in pure form and mixtures thereof. In some embodiments the preparation of the present compounds can include separating such isomers using standard separation procedures known to those skilled in the art for example by using one or more of column chromatography thin layer chromatography simulated moving bed chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography. However mixtures of regioisomers can be used similarly to the uses of each individual regioisomer of the present teachings as described herein and or known by a skilled artisan.

It is specifically contemplated that the depiction of one regioisomer includes any other regioisomers and any regioisomeric mixtures unless specifically stated otherwise.

As used herein a leaving group LG refers to a charged or uncharged atom or group of atoms that can be displaced as a stable species as a result of for example a substitution or elimination reaction. Examples of leaving groups include but are not limited to halogen e.g. Cl Br I azide N thiocyanate SCN nitro NO cyanate CN water HO ammonia NH and sulfonate groups e.g. OSO R wherein R can be a Calkyl group or a Caryl group each optionally substituted with 1 4 groups independently selected from a Calkyl group and an electron withdrawing group such as tosylate toluenesulfonate OTs mesylate methanesulfonate OMs brosylate p bromobenzenesulfonate OBs nosylate 4 nitrobenzenesulfonate ONs and triflate trifluoromethanesulfonate OTf .

As used herein a p type semiconductor material or a p type semiconductor refers to a semiconductor material having holes as the majority current or charge carriers. In some embodiments when a p type semiconductor material is deposited on a substrate it can provide a hole mobility in excess of about 10cm Vs. In the case of field effect devices a p type semiconductor can also exhibit a current on off ratio of greater than about 10.

As used herein an n type semiconductor material or an n type semiconductor refers to a semiconductor material having electrons as the majority current or charge carriers. In some embodiments when an n type semiconductor material is deposited on a substrate it can provide an electron mobility in excess of about 10cm Vs. In the case of field effect devices an n type semiconductor can also exhibit a current on off ratio of greater than about 10.

As used herein mobility refers to a measure of the velocity with which charge carriers for example holes or units of positive charge in the case of a p type semiconductor material and electrons in the case of an n type semiconductor material move through the material under the influence of an electric field. This parameter which depends on the device architecture can be measured using a field effect device or space charge limited current measurements.

As used herein fill factor FF is the ratio given as a percentage of the actual maximum obtainable power Por V J to the theoretical not actually obtainable power J V . Accordingly FF can be determined using the equation FF where Jand Vrepresent the current density and voltage at the maximum power point P respectively this point being obtained by varying the resistance in the circuit until J V is at its greatest value and Jand Vrepresent the short circuit current and the open circuit voltage respectively. Fill factor is a key parameter in evaluating the performance of solar cells. Commercial solar cells typically have a fill factor of about 0.60 or greater.

As used herein the open circuit voltage V is the difference in the electrical potentials between the anode and the cathode of a device when there is no external load connected.

As used herein the power conversion efficiency PCE of a solar cell is the percentage of power converted from absorbed light to electrical energy. The PCE of a solar cell can be calculated by dividing the maximum power point P by the input light irradiance E in W m under standard test conditions STC and the surface area of the solar cell Ain m . STC typically refers to a temperature of 25 C. and an irradiance of 1000 W mwith an air mass 1.5 AM 1.5 spectrum.

As used herein a component such as a thin film layer can be considered photoactive if it contains one or more compounds that can absorb photons to produce excitons for the generation of a photocurrent.

As used herein a compound can be considered ambient stable or stable at ambient conditions when the carrier mobility or the reduction potential of the compound is maintained at about its initial measurement when the compound is exposed to ambient conditions for example air ambient temperature and humidity over a period of time. For example a compound can be described as ambient stable if its carrier mobility or reduction potential does not vary more than 20 or more than 10 from its initial value after exposure to ambient conditions including air humidity and temperature over a 3 day 5 day or 10 day period.

As used herein solution processable refers to compounds e.g. polymers materials or compositions that can be used in various solution phase processes including spin coating printing e.g. inkjet printing screen printing pad printing offset printing gravure printing flexographic printing lithographic printing mass printing and the like spray coating electrospray coating drop casting dip coating and blade coating.

Throughout the specification structures may or may not be presented with chemical names. Where any question arises as to nomenclature the structure prevails.

The present teachings relate to compounds having one or more phthalimide units and or one or more head to head H H substituted biheteroaryl units as well as the use of these compounds in electronic optoelectronic or optical devices. More specifically the present compounds can be employed either by themselves or along with other inorganic or organic materials as a semiconductor component in various electronic optoelectronic or optical devices where the semiconductor component is capable of exhibiting a charge carrier mobility of 10cm V sec or greater and a current on off ratio I I of 10 or greater.

Accordingly in one aspect the present teachings relate to phthalimide based monomeric oligomeric and polymeric compounds. More specifically these compounds can include one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units that can be identical or different and independently can have the formula 

Accordingly in certain embodiments the present compounds can include one or more N substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units. For example the present compounds can include one or more N alkyl substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units that is Rcan be a linear or branched Calkyl group examples of which include an n hexyl group an n octyl group an n undecyl group an n dodecyl group a 1 methylpropyl group a 1 methylbutyl group a 1 methylpentyl group a 1 methylhexyl group a 1 3 dimethylbutyl group a 1 ethylpropyl group a 1 ethylbutyl group a 2 ethylhexyl group a 2 hexyloctyl group a 2 octyldodecyl group and a 2 decyltetradecyl group. For example Rcan be a branched alkyl group selected from 

In certain embodiments R at each occurrence can be a moiety including a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group or a Chaloalkyl group. For example Rcan be a linear or branched Calkyl or alkenyl group an arylalkyl group e.g. a benzyl group substituted with a linear or branched Calkyl or alkenyl group an aryl group e.g. a phenyl group substituted with a linear or branched Calkyl or alkenyl group or a biaryl group e.g. a biphenyl group substituted with a linear or branched Calkyl or alkenyl group wherein each of these groups optionally can be substituted with 1 5 halo groups e.g. F . In some embodiments Rcan be a biaryl group wherein the two aryl groups are covalently linked via a linker. For example the linker can be a divalent Calkyl group wherein one or more non adjacent CHgroups optionally can be replaced by O S or Se provided that O S and or Se atoms are not linked directly to one another. The linker can include other heteroatoms and or functional groups as described herein.

More generally R at each occurrence independently can be selected from H a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Calkynyl group a Chaloalkyl group and 1 4 cyclic moieties wherein 

For example where Rincludes one two three or four cyclic moieties one or more cyclic moieties for example the terminal cyclic moiety can be substituted with a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Calkynyl group or a Chaloalkyl group. In addition where Rincludes two three or four cyclic moieties the cyclic moieties can be covalently bonded to each other via an optional linker L where L can be a divalent Calkyl group a divalent Chaloalkyl group or a divalent functional group such as Y O Y Y S Y Y S O Y Y S O Y Y C O Y Y NRC O Y Y NR Y Y SiR Y where Y at each occurrence independently is selected from a divalent Calkyl group a divalent Calkenyl group a divalent Chaloalkyl group and a covalent bond and R at each occurrence independently is selected from H a Calkyl group a Caryl group and a Calkyl Caryl group.

To further illustrate in various embodiments R at each occurrence independently can be selected from H a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Chaloalkyl group and a moiety e.g. an aryl group comprising a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group or a Chaloalkyl group. In some embodiments R at each occurrence independently can be selected from a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group and a Chaloalkyl group where each of these groups can be linear or branched. In certain embodiments R at each occurrence independently can be selected from a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group and a Chaloalkyl group each of which can be linear or branched. In particular embodiments R at each occurrence independently can be a Calkyl group or a Chaloalkyl group which can be either linear or branched.

In addition to or in place of functionalization of the imide nitrogen atom the phthalimide 3 6 diyl units in the present compounds can be substituted at the C4 and or C5 positions. Accordingly Rand or Rindependently can be a small functional group such as a halogen e.g. F or Cl or CN or a solubilizing group such as a Calkyl group a Calkenyl group a Chaloalkyl group a Calkoxy group or a Calkylthio group. In other embodiments both Rand Rcan be H.

In some embodiments the present compounds are monomeric compounds. For example the monomeric compounds can have the formula 

Accordingly in some embodiments the present compounds are oligomeric or polymeric compounds including optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units where the phthalimide units form part of the backbone of the compounds instead of being grafted to the backbone as pendant groups . For example in certain embodiments the oligomeric or polymeric compounds can include a repeating unit of the formula 

In various embodiments the present monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds can include other units in addition to the one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units. Using Mto represent

In various embodiments the present compounds can include homopolymers of an optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl unit co oligomers or co polymers of two different optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units and co oligomers or co polymers of at least one repeating unit that includes an optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl unit and at least one other repeating unit that does not includes an optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl unit.

Accordingly certain oligomeric and polymeric compounds of the present teachings can be represented by the formula 

In certain embodiments the present compounds can be co oligomers or co polymers of two different repeating units where at least one of such repeating units includes an optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl unit. In particular embodiments such co oligomers or co polymers can include one or more repeating units M where each Mindependently can be 

In certain embodiments the present compounds can include two or more different repeating units and can be represented by the formula 

In the above formula Mand optionally Mcan be repeated with the phthalimide units Min a regular e.g. alternating or random manner. If at least one of M M and Mis substituted the polymer can be regioregular or regiorandom in terms of the orientation of the various units relative to each other. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory it is believed that the present polymeric compounds can retain desirable properties even when the mole fraction of the optionally substituted phthalimide units x varies from as low as 0.02 to 0.50 or greater. For example the present compounds can include random copolymers having at least 0.02 mole percent of optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units.

The pairing of the phthalimide unit and such one or more co monomers the imide position functionalization of the phthalimide unit and any functionalization on the co monomer s will be determined by the application of the polymeric compounds. For example for electronic optical and optoelectronic devices the composition of the polymeric compounds can be affected by one or more of the following considerations 1 the electron withdrawing capability for semiconductor processing in air and stable charge transport operation 2 modulation of the majority carrier type depending on the electronic structure of the monomers 3 regiochemistry of the polymerization possibly affording regioregular polymers 4 the core planarity and linearity of the polymer chain 5 the capability of additional functionalization of the conjugated core 6 the potential for increased solubility of the polymer for solution processing 7 achievement of strong interactions intermolecular electronic coupling and 8 bandgap modulation via electron donor acceptor coupling of electron poor acceptor and electron rich donor A B or B A repeating units.

In some embodiments 2 can be a polycyclic Caryl group or a polycyclic 8 24 membered heteroaryl group wherein each of these groups can be optionally substituted with 1 6 Rgroups. Such one or more substitution groups R at each occurrence independently can be selected from 

For example 2 can have a planar and highly conjugated cyclic core which can be optionally substituted as disclosed herein. Examples of suitable cyclic cores include naphthalene anthracene tetracene pentacene perylene pyrene coronene fluorene indacene indenofluorene and tetraphenylene as well as their analogs in which one or more carbon atoms can be replaced with a heteroatom such as O S Si Se N or P. In certain embodiments 2 can include at least one electron withdrawing group.

In certain embodiments 2 can include two or more e.g. 2 4 fused rings where each ring can be a five six or seven membered ring optionally substituted with 1 6 Rgroups wherein Ris as defined herein. For example in the various embodiments described herein Rcan be an electron withdrawing group such as a halogen CN oxo C R a Calkoxy group a Calkylthio group or a Chaloalkyl group. In certain embodiments Rcan be a halogen e.g. F Cl Br or I CN a Calkoxy group OCF or CF. In particular embodiments Rcan be O CN C CN F Cl Br or I.

In some embodiments 2 can include a monocyclic ring e.g. a 1 3 dioxolane group or a derivative thereof including optional substituents and or ring heteroatoms covalently bonded to a second monocyclic ring or a polycyclic system via a spiroatom e.g. a spiro carbon atom .

In various embodiments Ar at each occurrence independently can be an optionally substituted monocyclic moiety selected from 

In certain embodiments each Ar independently can be an optionally substituted 5 or 6 membered aryl or heteroaryl group. For example each Ar can be selected from a phenyl group a thienyl group a furyl group a pyrrolyl group an isothiazolyl group a thiazolyl group a 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl group a 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl group and a 1 2 5 thiadiazolyl group wherein each group can be divalent or monovalent and optionally can be substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from a halogen CN an oxo group a Calkyl group a Calkoxy group a Chaloalkyl group NH NH Calkyl and N Calkyl . In particular embodiments each Ar can be selected from a thienyl group an isothiazolyl group a thiazolyl group a 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl group a 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl group a 1 2 5 thiadiazolyl group a phenyl group and a pyrrolyl group wherein each group optionally can be substituted with 1 2 substituents independently selected from a halogen CN an oxo group a Calkyl group a Calkoxy group a Chaloalkyl group NH NH Calkyl and N Calkyl . In some embodiments Ar can be unsubstituted. In some embodiments Ar can be a thienyl group an isothiazolyl group a thiazolyl group a 1 2 4 thiadiazolyl group a 1 3 4 thiadiazolyl group and a 1 2 5 thiadiazolyl group wherein each optionally is substituted with 1 2 Calkyl groups.

In various embodiments the linker Z can be a conjugated system by itself e.g. including two or more double or triple bonds or can form a conjugated system with its neighboring components. For example in embodiments where Z is a linear linker Z can be a divalent ethenyl group i.e. having one double bond a divalent ethynyl group i.e. having one tripe bond a Calkenyl or alkynyl group that includes two or more conjugated double or triple bonds or some other non cyclic conjugated systems that can include heteroatoms such as Si N P and the like. For example Z can be selected from 

In some embodiments Mand or M if present can include one or more 5 membered heteroaryl groups optionally substituted with 1 2 Rgroups wherein R at each occurrence independently is selected from a halogen CN OCHCH OR a Calkyl group a Calkoxy group and a Chaloalkyl group and Rand t are as defined herein. For example Mand Mcan be selected from 

Accordingly the present compounds can include oligomers and polymers having a repeating unit selected from 

In particular embodiments the present teachings relate to monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds that include one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units and one or more optionally substituted 5 membered heteroaryl groups e.g. a thienyl group . For example the one or more 5 membered heteroaryl groups can be optionally substituted with 1 2 Rgroups where R at each occurrence is independently selected from a halogen CN OCHCF O Calkyl a Calkyl group a Calkoxy group a Calkylthio group and a Chaloalkyl group. In particular embodiments the present teachings relate to monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds that include one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units and one or more aryl e.g. a phenyl group or heteroaryl e.g. a thienyl group groups substituted with at least one electron donating group e.g. an alkyl group an alkoxy group or an alkylthio group . In particular embodiments the present teachings relate to monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds that include one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units and one or more optionally substituted polycyclic conjugated moieties e.g. a polycyclic aryl group including a thienyl group fused with one or more cyclic groups .

In particular embodiments the present teachings relate to monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds that include one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units and one or more optionally substituted biheteroaryl units. In particular embodiments the one or more biheteroaryl units each comprise two 3 substituted heteroaryl units that are head to head H H in orientation to each other. While semiconducting compounds reported in the literature have typically avoided H H linkages due to the general belief that steric interactions will cause significant backbone torsion thereby precluding backbone planarity and disrupting packing it has been found surprisingly that certain compounds having H H disubstituted biheteroaryl linkages can exhibit extended conjugation and close intermolecular stacking.

Accordingly in particular embodiments the present teachings relate to monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds that include one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units and one or more biheteroaryl units of the formula 

For example each of Xand Xin the above formula can be S while L R Xand Xare as defined above and hereinbelow. Accordingly the present teachings include monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds including one or more units of the formula 

To further illustrate the present monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds can include one or more optionally substituted phthalimide 3 6 diyl units and one or more units selected from 

It should be understood that the present teachings can exclude certain polymers including N substituted 3 6 phthalimide units. For example the present teachings can exclude certain polymers where Mincludes an unsubstituted phenyl group a phenyl group substituted with one or more electron withdrawing groups or an unsubstituted pyridinyl group. In particular the present teachings can exclude the following polymers 

Another aspect of the present teachings relates to monomeric oligomeric and polymeric compounds having one or more biheteroaryl units that are identical or different and have the formula 

More specifically the present teachings can relate to oligomeric and polymeric compounds including H H substituted biheteroaryl units where the oligomeric or polymeric compounds have a highest occupied molecular orbital energy HOMO energy or E of less than about 4.8 eV i.e. more negative than about 4.8 eV for example less than about 4.9 eV or less than about 5.0 eV. For example the present compounds can have an Ebetween about 4.8 eV and about 7.0 eV.

As used herein the highest occupied molecular orbital energy Ein eV of a compound is calculated from its oxidation potential Ein V . Further as used herein the Eof a compound is determined by cyclic voltammetry. Specifically cyclic voltammetry measurements are performed on thin films of the semiconducting compound deposited on a working electrode using a 2 w w toluene solution of the compound. All the measurements are carried out with a BAS CV 50W voltammetric analyzer under a nitrogen atmosphere in a 0.1 M solution of tetra n butylammonium hexafluorophosphate in dry actonitrile as the supporting electrolyte. The supporting electrolyte solution is thoroughly purged with Nbefore the CV measurements. A platinum disk working electrode a platinum wire counter electrode and a silver wire reference electrode are employed and Fc Fc is used as the reference for such measurements. A scan rate of 50 mV S is used. The measured Evalue and the corresponding Evalue are further referenced based on the corresponding values of regioregular poly 3 hexylthiophene rrP3HT . Specifically the Eof a compound e.g. a polymer reported herein is determined using the following equation compound 3 based on literature compound 3 For example the Eof rrP3HT is typically reported to be 4.9 eV based on cyclic voltammetry measurements see e.g. Osaka I. Zhang R. Sauve G. Smilgies D. M. Kowalewski T. McCullogh R. D. 2009 131 2521 29 . Therefore the equation above becomes compound 4.9 eV polymer 3 Using the setup described above the Eof rrP3HT was determined to be 0.25 V vs. Fc Fc and the Emeasured for polymer P2 was determined to be 0.34 V vs. Fc Fc. Therefore E P2 4.9 0.34 0.25 4.99 eV. Such a 0.1 eV lowering of Erelative to rrP3HT should be sufficient to improve the ambient stability of OFETs see Ong B. S. Wu Y. Liu P. Gardner S. 2004 126 3378 79 .

In certain embodiments oligomeric and polymeric compounds according to the present teachings can have one or more biheteroaryl units of the formula 

In particular embodiments oligomeric and polymeric compounds according to the present teachings can include H H dialkoxy substituted biheteroaryl units selected from 

In certain embodiments oligomeric and polymeric compounds according to the present teachings can have one or more biheteroaryl units of the formula 

In particular embodiments oligomeric and polymeric compounds according to the present teachings can include H H dialkyl substituted biheteroaryl units selected from 

In various embodiments the present monomeric oligomeric or polymeric compounds can include at least one other unit that is different from the biheteroaryl unit s . Such other unit s can include one or more conjugated linkers Z and or one or more monocyclic Ar or polycyclic 2 moieties. In certain embodiments the other unit s can be a monocyclic or polycyclic moiety including one or more electron withdrawing groups. In certain embodiments the other unit s can have an oxidation potential E of about 0.5 V or greater for example 0.6 V or greater and in particular embodiments about 0.7 V or greater wherein Eis measured as described herein. The biheteroaryl units and the other unit s can be repeated in a regular e.g. alternating or random manner. Accordingly these copolymers can be generally represented by the formula 

To further illustrate and using Mto represent the biheteroaryl unit and Mand Mto represent a second or third co unit the present compounds for example can have a repeating unit of a formula selected from 

In particular embodiments such other unit s Mand Mcan be selected from a vinyl group optionally substituted with 1 2 electron withdrawing groups e.g. a halogen such as F or Cl or a CN group a carbonyl group a 5 membered heteroaryl group optionally substituted with 1 2 electron withdrawing groups a phenyl group optionally substituted with 1 4 electron withdrawing groups a naphthalenyl group optionally substituted with 1 6 electron withdrawing groups and a polycyclic moiety selected from 

In certain embodiments the present compounds can be monomeric compounds having a formula selected from 

In certain embodiments the present teachings relate to oligomeric or polymeric compounds having the formula 

In certain embodiments the present teachings relate to co oligomeric or co polymeric compounds that include bithienyl units selected from 

Compounds of the present teachings can be prepared according to procedures analogous to those described in the Examples. In particular Stille coupling can be used to prepare co polymeric compounds according to the present teachings with high molecular weight and in high yield 75 and purity as confirmed by H NMR spectra elemental analysis and GPC measurements.

Alternatively the present compounds can be prepared from commercially available starting materials compounds known in the literature or via other readily prepared intermediates by employing standard synthetic methods and procedures known to those skilled in the art. Standard synthetic methods and procedures for the preparation of organic molecules and functional group transformations and manipulations can be readily obtained from the relevant scientific literature or from standard textbooks in the field. It will be appreciated that where typical or preferred process conditions i.e. reaction temperatures times mole ratios of reactants solvents pressures etc. are given other process conditions can also be used unless otherwise stated. Optimum reaction conditions can vary with the particular reactants or solvent used but such conditions can be determined by one skilled in the art by routine optimization procedures. Those skilled in the art of organic synthesis will recognize that the nature and order of the synthetic steps presented can be varied for the purpose of optimizing the formation of the compounds described herein.

The processes described herein can be monitored according to any suitable method known in the art. For example product formation can be monitored by spectroscopic means such as nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy NMR e.g. H or C infrared spectroscopy IR spectrophotometry e.g. UV visible mass spectrometry MS or by chromatography such as high pressure liquid chromatography HPLC gas chromatography GC gel permeation chromatography GPC or thin layer chromatography TLC .

The reactions or the processes described herein can be carried out in suitable solvents which can be readily selected by one skilled in the art of organic synthesis. Suitable solvents typically are substantially nonreactive with the reactants intermediates and or products at the temperatures at which the reactions are carried out i.e. temperatures that can range from the solvent s freezing temperature to the solvent s boiling temperature. A given reaction can be carried out in one solvent or a mixture of more than one solvent. Depending on the particular reaction step suitable solvents for a particular reaction step can be selected.

Certain embodiments disclosed herein can be stable in ambient conditions ambient stable and soluble in common solvents. As used herein a compound can be considered electrically ambient stable or stable at ambient conditions when the carrier mobility or the oxidation potential of the compound is maintained at about its initial measurement when the compound is exposed to ambient conditions for example air ambient temperature and humidity over a period of time. For example a compound according to the present teachings can be described as ambient stable if its carrier mobility or oxidation potential does not vary more than 20 or more than 10 from its initial value after exposure to ambient conditions including air humidity and temperature over a 3 day 5 day or 10 day period. In addition a compound can be considered ambient stable if the optical absorption of the corresponding film does not vary more than 20 preferably does not vary more than 10 from its initial value after exposure to ambient conditions including air humidity and temperature over a 3 day 5 day or 10 day period.

As used herein a compound can be considered soluble in a solvent when at least 0.1 mg of the compound can be dissolved in 1 mL of the solvent. Examples of common organic solvents include petroleum ethers acetonitrile aromatic hydrocarbons such as benzene toluene xylene and mesitylene ketones such as acetone and methyl ethyl ketone ethers such as tetrahydrofuran dioxane bis 2 methoxyethyl ether diethyl ether di isopropyl ether and t butyl methyl ether alcohols such as methanol ethanol butanol and isopropyl alcohol aliphatic hydrocarbons such as hexanes esters such as methyl acetate ethyl acetate methyl formate ethyl formate isopropyl acetate and butyl acetate amides such as dimethylformamide and dimethylacetamide sulfoxides such as dimethylsulfoxide halogenated aliphatic and aromatic hydrocarbons such as dichloromethane chloroform ethylene chloride chlorobenzene dichlorobenzene and trichlorobenzene and cyclic solvents such as cyclopentanone cyclohexanone and 2 methypyrrolidone.

The present compounds can be fabricated into various articles of manufacture using solution processing techniques in addition to other more expensive processes such as vapor deposition. Various solution processing techniques have been used with organic electronics. Common solution processing techniques include for example spin coating drop casting zone casting dip coating blade coating or spraying. Another example of solution processing technique is printing. As used herein printing includes a noncontact process such as inkjet printing microdispensing and the like and a contact process such as screen printing gravure printing offset printing flexographic printing lithographic printing pad printing microcontact printing and the like.

Compounds of the present teachings can be used to prepare semiconductor materials e.g. compositions and composites which in turn can be used to fabricate various articles of manufacture structures and devices. In some embodiments semiconductor materials incorporating one or more compounds of the present teachings can exhibit p type semiconductor activity n type semiconductor activity ambipolar activity light absorption and or light emission.

The present teachings therefore further provide methods of preparing a semiconductor material. The methods can include preparing a composition that includes one or more compounds disclosed herein dissolved or dispersed in a liquid medium such as a solvent or a mixture of solvents depositing the composition on a substrate to provide a semiconductor material precursor and processing e.g. heating the semiconductor precursor to provide a semiconductor material e.g. a thin film semiconductor that includes a compound disclosed herein. In various embodiments the liquid medium can be an organic solvent an inorganic solvent such as water or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the composition can further include one or more additives independently selected from viscosity modulators detergents dispersants binding agents compatiblizing agents curing agents initiators humectants antifoaming agents wetting agents pH modifiers biocides and bactereriostats. For example surfactants and or polymers e.g. polystyrene polyethylene poly alpha methylstyrene polyisobutene polypropylene polymethylmethacrylate and the like can be included as a dispersant a binding agent a compatiblizing agent and or an antifoaming agent. In some embodiments the depositing step can be carried out by printing including inkjet printing and various contact printing techniques e.g. screen printing gravure printing offset printing pad printing lithographic printing flexographic printing and microcontact printing . In other embodiments the depositing step can be carried out by spin coating drop casting zone casting dip coating blade coating or spraying.

Various articles of manufacture including electronic devices optical devices and optoelectronic devices such as thin film semiconductors field effect transistors e.g. thin film transistors photovoltaics photodetectors organic light emitting devices such as organic light emitting diodes OLEDs and organic light emitting transistors OLETs complementary metal oxide semiconductors CMOSs complementary inverters diodes capacitors sensors D flip flops rectifiers and ring oscillators that make use of the compounds disclosed herein are within the scope of the present teachings as are methods of making the same. The present compounds can offer processing and operation advantages in the fabrication and or the use of these devices.

For example articles of manufacture such as the various devices described herein can be an electronic or optoelectronic device including a first electrode a second electrode and a semiconducting component in contact with the first electrode and the electrode where the semiconducting component includes a compound of the present teachings. These devices can include a composite having a semiconducting component or semiconductor material of the present teachings and a substrate component and or a dielectric component. The substrate component can be selected from doped silicon an indium tin oxide ITO ITO coated glass ITO coated polyimide or other plastics aluminum or other metals alone or coated on a polymer or other substrate a doped polythiophene and the like. The dielectric component can be prepared from inorganic dielectric materials such as various oxides e.g. SiO AlO HfO organic dielectric materials such as various polymeric materials e.g. polycarbonate polyester polystyrene polyhaloethylene polyacrylate and self assembled superlattice self assembled nanodielectric SAS SAND materials e.g. as described in Yoon M H. et al. PNAS 102 13 4678 4682 2005 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein as well as hybrid organic inorganic dielectric materials e.g. described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 642 504 the entire disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein . In some embodiments the dielectric component can include the crosslinked polymer blends described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 315 076 60 816 952 and 60 861 308 the entire disclosure of each of which is incorporated by reference herein. The composite also can include one or more electrical contacts. Suitable materials for the source drain and gate electrodes include metals e.g. Au Al Ni Cu transparent conducting oxides e.g. ITO IZO ZITO GZO GIO GITO and conducting polymers e.g. poly 3 4 ethylenedioxythiophene poly styrenesulfonate PEDOT PSS polyaniline PANI polypyrrole PPy . One or more of the composites described herein can be embodied within various organic electronic optical and optoelectronic devices such as organic thin film transistors OTFTs specifically organic field effect transistors OFETs as well as sensors capacitors unipolar circuits complementary circuits e.g. inverter circuits and the like.

Accordingly an aspect of the present teachings relates to methods of fabricating an organic field effect transistor that incorporates a semiconductor material of the present teachings. The semiconductor materials of the present teachings can be used to fabricate various types of organic field effect transistors including top gate top contact capacitor structures top gate bottom contact capacitor structures bottom gate top contact capacitor structures and bottom gate bottom contact capacitor structures.

In certain embodiments OTFT devices can be fabricated with the present compounds on doped silicon substrates using SiOas the dielectric in top contact geometries. In particular embodiments the active semiconductor layer which incorporates at least a compound of the present teachings can be deposited at room temperature or at an elevated temperature. In other embodiments the active semiconductor layer which incorporates at least one compound of the present teachings can be applied by spin coating or printing as described herein. For top contact devices metallic contacts can be patterned on top of the films using shadow masks.

In certain embodiments OTFT devices can be fabricated with the present compounds on plastic foils using polymers as the dielectric in top gate bottom contact geometries. In particular embodiments the active semiconducting layer which incorporates at least a compound of the present teachings can be deposited at room temperature or at an elevated temperature. In other embodiments the active semiconducting layer which incorporates at least a compound of the present teachings can be applied by spin coating or printing as described herein. Gate and source drain contacts can be made of Au other metals or conducting polymers and deposited by vapor deposition and or printing.

In various embodiments a semiconducting component incorporating compounds of the present teachings can exhibit p type semiconducting activity for example a hole mobility of 10cm V sec or greater and or a current on off ratio I I of 10or greater.

Other articles of manufacture in which compounds of the present teachings are useful are photovoltaics or solar cells. Compounds of the present teachings can exhibit broad optical absorption and or a tuned redox properties and bulk carrier mobilities making them desirable for such applications. Accordingly the compounds described herein can be used as a donor p type semiconductor material in a photovoltaic design which includes an adjacent n type semiconductor material that forms a p n junction. The compounds can be in the form of a thin film semiconductor which can be deposited on a substrate to form a composite. Exploitation of compounds of the present teachings in such devices is within the knowledge of a skilled artisan.

Accordingly another aspect of the present teachings relates to methods of fabricating an organic light emitting transistor an organic light emitting diode OLED or an organic photovoltaic device that incorporates one or more semiconductor materials of the present teachings.

The following examples are provided to illustrate further and to facilitate the understanding of the present teachings and are not in any way intended to limit the invention.

THF acetonitrile and toluene were distilled from appropriate drying agents and stored over molecular sieves under argon. Regioregular poly 3 hexylthiophene rr P3HT was purchased from American Dye Source Inc. Quebec Canada . 5 5 Bis tributylstannyl 3 3 bis dodecyloxy 2 2 bithiophene was synthesized via procedures as described in Guo X. Watson M. D. . 2008 10 5333 5336. All other reagents were used as received except where noted. Unless otherwise stated all manipulations and reactions were carried out under argon atmosphere using standard Schlenk techniques. H and C spectra were recorded on a Varian INOVA 400 MHz spectrometer. Chemical shifts were referenced to residual protio solvent signals. GC MS data were collected from an Agilent technologies 6890N GC with 5973 MSD. Relative molecular weights of polymers were measured using a Waters 600E HPLC system driven by Waters Empower Software and equipped with two linear mixed bed GPC columns American Polymer Standards Corporation AM Gel Linear 15 in series. Eluting polymers were detected with both refractive index and photodiode array detectors and the system was calibrated with 11 narrow PDI polystyrene samples in the range 580 to 2 10Da with THF at a flow rate of 1 mL min. UV Vis data were recorded on a Varian Cary 1 UV Visible spectrophotometer. Elemental analysis and ICP were performed by Robertson Microlit Laboratories.

N 2 ethylhexyl 3 6 dibromophthalimide 3 6 Dibromo phthalic anhydride 1.53 g 5 mmol 2 ethylhexyl amine 0.84 g 6.5 mmol and glacial acetic acid 30 ml were combined and refluxed under argon for two hours. After most of the acetic acid was removed under reduced pressure N 2 ethylhexyl 3 6 dibromophthalimide was separated via column chromatography silica gel dichloromethane hexanes 1 3 . Colorless crystals were obtained after recrystallization from hexanes 1.88 g 90 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 7.63 s 2H 3.56 d 2H 1.80 m 1H 1.29 m 8H 0.88 m 6H . C NMR CDCl 100 MHz ppm 165.34 139.71 131.42 117.71 42.66 38.46 30.77 28.76 24.09 23.16 14.26 10.59. mp 65 C. GC MS m z 415 CHBrNO 319 100 . Anal. Calcd for CHBrNO C 46.07 H 4.59 N 3.36. Found C 46.09 H 4.32 N 3.37.

P1 In an air free flask monomers N 2 ethylhexyl 3 6 dibromophthalimide 83.43 mg 0.2 mmol and 5 5 bis tributylstannyl 3 3 bis dodecyloxy 2 2 bithiophene 222.60 mg 0.2 mmol were combined under argon followed by addition of a mixture of tris dibenzylideneacetone dipalladium 0 and tri o tolyl phosphine 1 8 molar ratio between Pd dba and P o tolyl Pd loading 0.03 equiv . The flask and its contents were subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with argon followed by addition of anhydrous degassed THF 4 ml via syringe. The sealed reaction mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 24 hours. After cooling to room temperature the deeply colored reaction mixture was dripped into 100 ml vigorously stirred methanol containing 5 ml 12 M HCl . The precipitated solid was stirred for 4 hours and collected by centrifugation and decantation. The solid polymer was dissolved in chloroform and reprecipitated into methanol. After filtration and drying under reduced pressure the polymer was subjected to sequential Soxhlet extraction using methanol acetone and hexane 24 hours for each solvent and finally chloroform. The chloroform solution was concentrated to 20 ml dripped into vigorously stirred methanol and the resulting solid collected by centrifugation and decantation. After drying in vacuo a blue solid with copper like metallic luster was obtained 151.72 mg 96 yield M 117.3 kDa . H NMR CDCl 100 C. 400 MHz ppm 7.94 brs 2H 7.90 brs 2H 4.35 brs 4H 3.69 brs 2H 2.01 m 5H 1.68 brs 4H 1.38 m 42H 0.99 m 12H . Anal. Calcd for CHNOS C 72.96 H 9.06 N 1.77. Found C 72.69 H 8.81 N 1.79.

Polymer P2 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a blue solid with copper like metallic luster was obtained 90 yield . M 207.5 KDa M 394.3 KDa PDI 1.90. H NMR CDCl 100 C. 400 MHz ppm 7.96 brs 2H 7.89 brs 2H 4.35 brs 4H 3.76 brs 2H 2.04 brs 4H 1.79 brs 2H 1.69 brs 4H 1.39 m 50H 0.93 m 9H . Anal. Calcd for CHNOS C 73.80 H 9.41 N 1.66. Found C 73.55 H 9.36 N 1.63.

Polymer P3 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo an orange red solid was collected yield 82 . M 13.0 KDa M 20.5 KDa PDI 1.58. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 7.89 brs 2H 7.85 brs 2H 3.59 b 2H 1.92 b 1H 1.22 m 40H 0.84 t 6H . C NMR CDCl 100 MHz ppm 167.70 139.70 135.94 132.17 131.00 128.29 42.95 37.18 32.15 31.78 30.27 29.92 29.89 29.58 26.58 22.92 14.35. Note some peaks in C NMR overlap .

Polymer P4 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo an orange solid was collected yield 84 . M 22.0 KDa M 42.0 KDa PDI 1.91. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 7.80 brs 4H 3.60 b 2H 2.66 t 4H 1.95 b 1H 1.67 b 4H 1.22 m 52H 0.87 m 12H .

Polymer P5 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo an orange red solid was collected yield 96 . Molecular weight data not available due to the low solubility in THF at room temperature. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 130 C. ppm 8.25 b 4H 3.72 b 2H 2.42 b 1H 1.36 m 40H 0.95 m 6H .

Polymer P6 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a red solid was collected yield 92 . Molecular weight data not available due to the low solubility in THF at room temperature. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 130 C. ppm 7.90 b 4H 7.40 b 2H 3.71 b 2H 2.04 b 1H 1.41 m 40H 0.95 t 6H .

Polymer P7 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a red brown solid was collected yield 78 . M 35.2 KDa M 309.8 PDI 8.8. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 130 C. ppm 8.32 b 2H 7.90 b 2H 3.71 b 2H 2.08 b 1H 1.35 m 40H 0.94 t 6H .

Polymer P8 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo an red brown solid was collected yield 86 . M 31.4 KDa M 211.9 KDa PDI 6.74. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 7.92 s 2H 7.83 s 2H 3.72 b 2H 1.99 b 2H 1.72 b 2H 1.47 b 4H 1.37 b 4H 1.24 m 1.49 m 36H 0.44 m 9H .

Polymer P9 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a purple solid was collected yield 96 . M 14.2 KDa PDI 2.02. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 65 C. ppm 7.06 s 2H 4.20 t 4H 3.54 bs 4H 1.90 m 4H 1.83 m 2H 1.51 m 4H 1.28 m 48H 0.89 m 18H .

Polymer P10 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a blue solid was collected yield 96 . M 32.3 KDa PDI 2.77. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 130 C. ppm 8.08 bs 2H 4.37 bs 4H 3.72 bs 2H 2.08 bs 4H 1.41 m 56H 0.97 m 9H .

Polymer P11 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a deep green solid was collected yield 98 . M 29.1 KDa PDI 3.23. H NMR CDC14 400 MHz 130 C. ppm 8.14 bs 2H 7.89 br 2H 4. bs 4H 2.07 m 2H 1.55 m 32H 1.06 m 12H .

Polymer P12 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. The solvents used for soxhlet extraction were MeOH acetone hexane chloroform and finally chlorobenzene. After drying in vacuo a green solid was collected yield 83 . M N A due to the low solubility in THF at room temperature . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz 130 C. ppm 8.12 bs 2H 7.88 br 2H 4.36 bs 4H 1.54 m 56H 0.99 m 6H .

Polymer P13 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a maroonish red solid was collected yield 77 . M 16 kDa PDI 1.57. H NMR CDCl 90 C. 400 MHz ppm 7.63 S 2H 2.71 t 4H 1.70 m 4H 1.31 br m 52H 0.93 t 6H . F NMR CDCl 90 C. 376 MHz ppm 140.98 m 4F 141.130 m 0.8 F .

Polymer P14 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a blue solid was collected yield 77 . M 17 kDa PDI 1.2. H NMR CDCl RT 400 MHz ppm 7.55 br s 2H 2.58 br 4H 1.59 m 4H 1.17 br 36H 0.85 br 6H .

Polymer P15 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a maroonish red solid was collected yield 79 . M 25 kDa PDI 1.82. H NMR CDCl 90 C. 400 MHz ppm 7.61 s 2H 2.68 t 4H 1.68 m 4H 1.29 br m 36H 0.91 t 6H . F NMR CDCl 90 C. 376 MHz ppm 141.83 broad singlet 4F 141.982 broad singlet 0.5 F .

Polymer P16 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a dark blue solid with copper like metallic luster was obtained 78 yield . H NMR CDCl 130 C. 400 MHz ppm 7.49 s br 2H 4.28 s br 4H 1.99 m 4H 1.39 m br 50H 0.93 t 6H .

Polymer P17 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that of P1. After drying in vacuo a deep blue solid with copper like metallic luster was obtained 61 yield . M 190 kDa PDI 2.8 H NMR CDCl 130 C. 400 MHz ppm 8.0 s 2H 7.68 s 2 H 4.26 brs 4 H 2.10 brs 2 H 1.39 m 32 H 1.03 m 12 H .

The reagents 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 didodecyloxy 2 2 bithiophene 162.3 mg 0.189 mmol perfluoro 1 4 phenylenebis 5 bromothiophen 2 yl methanone 100 mg 0.189 mmol Pd dba 5.0 mg 0.0055 mmol and P o tolyl 13.2 mg 0.043 mmol in anhydrous THF 6 mL were heated at 65 C. for 16 h under nitrogen in a sealed flask. After cooling to room temperature the dark purple viscous reaction mixture was poured into methanol 50 mL . After stirring for 2 hours the precipitated dark solid was collected by gravity filtration. The polymer was subjected to sequential Soxhlet extraction with methanol acetone hexanes and chloroform. Finally the chloroform solution 40 mL was precipitated into methanol 150 mL . The extraction precipitation procedure was repeated for one more time. The final precipitated polymer was collected by vacuum filtration and dried in a vacuum oven 60 C. overnight to afford the pure polymer P18 as a dark solid 142 mg 83 yield . Anal. calcd. for CHFOS C 63.97 H 6.26. Found C 63.32 H 6.28. GPC RT in THF M 47 670 g mol M 87 952 g mol and PDI 1.84 against PS standard .

The reagents 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 dihexyloxy 2 2 bithiophene 130.8 mg 0.189 mmol perfluoro 1 4 phenylenebis 5 bromothiophen 2 yl methanone 100 mg 0.189 mmol Pd dba 5.0 mg 0.0055 mmol and P o tolyl 13.2 mg 0.043 mmol in anhydrous THF 6 mL were heated at 65 C. for 21 h under nitrogen in a sealed flask. After cooling to room temperature the dark purple viscous reaction mixture was poured into methanol 50 mL . After stirring for 2 hours the precipitated dark solid was collected by gravity filtration. The polymer was subjected to sequential Soxhlet extraction with methanol acetone hexanes and chloroform. Finally the chloroform solution 30 mL was precipitated into methanol 100 mL . The extraction precipitation procedure was repeated for one more time. The final precipitated polymer was collected by vacuum filtration and dried in a vacuum oven 60 C. overnight to afford the pure polymer P19 as a dark solid 85 mg 61 yield . Anal. calcd. for CHFOS C 59.00 H 4.40. Found C 59.20 H 4.55. GPC RT in THF M 29 494 g mol M 59 380 g mol and PDI 2.01 against PS standard .

Under argon a mixture of T TCN T Br 106.4 mg 0.12 mmol 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 bisdodecoxy 2 2 bithiophene 104.6 mg 0.12 mmol tolP 4.5 mg 0.015 mmol and Pddba 3.4 mg 0.004 mmol in anhydrous toluene 20 mL was stirred at refluxing temperature for 3 hours. Bromobenzene 0.5 mL was then added and the reaction mixture was maintained at refluxing temperature for an additional 15 hours. Upon cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into a mixture of methanol 80 mL and concentrated HCl 8 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 hours. The precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with methanol. The obtained solid product was subject to Soxhlet extraction with acetone and hexane for 24 hours each. Finally the solid product was extracted with chloroform and chlorobenzene for 24 hours each and the extracts were concentrated and precipitated in methanol leading to two fractions of dark solid as the product chloroform 32.5 mg yield 21.4 chlorobenzene 57.8 mg yield 38.1 .

Under argon a mixture of NDI2OD Br 105.7 mg 0.107 mmol 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 dimethoxy 2 2 bithiophene 51.5 mg 0.093 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 3.3 mg 0.005 mmol in anhydrous toluene 12 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 18 hours. Bromobenzene 0.5 mL was then added and the reaction mixture was maintained at 90 C. for an additional 16 hours. Upon cooling to room temperature a solution of potassium fluoride 1.5 g in water 3 mL was added. This mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour before it was extracted with chloroform 100 mL . Organic layer was washed with water 80 mL 2 dried over anhydrous sodium sulfate and concentrated on a rotary evaporator. The residue was taken with chloroform 40 mL and precipitated in methanol 100 mL and acetone 100 mL in sequence. The obtained solid product was purified by Soxhlet extraction with acetone for 48 hours. The remaining solid residue was redissolved in chloroform 50 mL and the resulting mixture was heated to boil. Upon cooling to room temperature the chloroform solution was filtered through a 5 m filter and the filtrate was added slowly to methanol 80 mL . The precipitates were collected by filtration washed with methanol and dried in vacuum leading to a dark solid as the product 89.1 mg yield 91.0 .

Under argon a mixture of T NDI2OD T Br 1.34 g 1.17 mmol 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 dimethoxy 2 2 bithiophene 0.56 g 1.02 mmol and Pd PPh Cl 35.5 mg 0.044 mmol in anhydrous toluene 150 mL was stirred at 90 C. for 18 hours. Bromobenzene 3.0 mL was then added and the reaction mixture was maintained at 90 C. for an additional 20 hours. Upon cooling to room temperature the reaction mixture was poured into a mixture of methanol 600 mL and concentrated HCl 30 mL and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The precipitate was collected by filtration and washed with methanol. The obtained solid product was redissolved in chloroform 200 mL and this solution was precipitated in methanol 800 mL . The isolated solid was then subject to Soxhlet extraction with methanol acetone and hexane for 24 hours each leading to a dark solid as the product 1.20 g yield 97.6 .

Polymer P23 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a dark brown solid was obtained 86 yield . Mn 14 kDa PDI 1.41. H NMR 400 MHz 130 C. CDCl 7.97 s 2H 3.74 s br 2H 2.70 s br 4H 1.74 m 6H 1.34 m br 78H 0.95 s br 9H .

Polymer P24 was prepared and isolated in a manner similar to that employed for P1. After drying in vacuo a dark brown solid was obtained 92 yield . Mn 12 kDa PDI 1.56. H NMR 400 MHz 130 C. CDCl 7.95 s 2H 3.72 s br 2H 2.68 s br 4H 1.73 m br 10H 1.34 m br 58H 0.92 s br 9H .

A mixture of 3.0 g 9.8 mmol of 2 4 dibromophthalic anhydride 2009 131 7206 and 2.53 g 12.7 mmol of 2 2 3 3 4 4 4 heptafluorobutylamine in 60 mL of acetic anhydride was heated to reflux for 2 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo to dryness. The resulting solid was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 5.5 30 cm chloroform . The product was recrystallized from 75 mL of cold diethyl ether to give 2.4 g 50 yield of N 2 2 3 3 4 4 4 heptafluorobutyl 3 6 dibromophthalimide as white needles. m.p. 165 C. H NMR 500 MHz 7.76 s 2H 4.40 t 2H J 15.2 Hz .

A solution of 2.9 g 5.42 mmol of 3 3 didodecyloxy 2 2 bithiophene 2008 10 5333 in 150 mL of THF was cooled to 78 C. The resulting suspension was treated dropwise with 5.2 mL 13.0 mmol of n BuLi 2.5 M in hexanes and stirred for an additional 45 minutes. The dry ice bath was then removed and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1.25 hours. The suspension was cooled to 78 C. and treated with a solution of 3.02 g 15.2 mmol of trimethyltin chloride in 15 mL of THF. The mixture was stirred for 90 minutes at ambient temperature. The mixture was diluted with 100 mL of ethyl acetate and washed successively with 50 mL of water and 50 mL of brine. The separated organic layer was dried over KCO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting solid was recrystallized from cold pentane to give 3.8 g 81 yield of 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 bis dodecyloxy 2 2 bithiophene as light tan needles. m.p. 66 67 C. H NMR 500 MHz 6.88 s 2H 4.11 t 4H J 6.4 Hz 1.84 m 4H 1.55 1.30 m 36H 0.88 m 6H 0.36 s 18H .

An air free vessel was charged with 28 mg 0.0581 mmol of N 2 2 3 3 4 4 4 heptafluorobutyl 3 6 dibromophthalimide 50 mg 0.0581 mmol of 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 bis dodecyloxy 2 2 bithiophene 1.6 mg 0.0017 mmol Pddba and 4.2 mg 0.0139 mmol of P o tolyl . The mixture was subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with N. THF 4 mL was added the tube was sealed and the mixture was stirred in an oil bath at 80 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured into 100 mL of methanol containing 5 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid. The mixture was stirred for 5 minutes and filtered. The solid was purified by soxhlet extraction with methanol 1 h chloroform 24 h and chlorobenzene 2 h . The chlorobenzene extract 15 mL was poured into 15 mL of methanol and filtered to give 21 mg 42 yield of P25 as a brown solid.

An air free vessel was charged with 19.2 mg 0.0581 mmol of 4 7 dibromo 5 6 difluorobenzo c 1 2 5 thiadiazole 50 mg 0.0581 mmol of 5 5 bis trimethylstannyl 3 3 bis dodecyloxy 2 2 bithiophene 1.6 mg 0.0017 mmol Pddba and 4.2 mg 0.0139 mmol of P o tolyl . The mixture was subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with N. THF 4 mL was added the tube was sealed and the mixture was stirred in an oil bath at 80 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and poured into 25 mL of methanol containing 1.5 mL of concentrated hydrochloric acid. The mixture was centrifuged the supernatant was removed and the remaining solid was suspended in a minimal amount of methanol and filtered. The filter cake was dried to give P26 as a dark solid.

Preparation of 2 4 dichlorothiazole 7 procedure adapted from 1962 1735 A mixture of 100 g 0.853 mol of 2 4 thiazolidinedione 6 VWR International 560 mL 6 mol of phosphorous oxychloride and 150 mL 1.86 mol of pyridine was refluxed for 3 hours. The reaction mixture was reduced in volume by half by distilling volatiles through a short column. The resulting dark slurry was poured onto 1 kg of ice. The mixture was extracted with diethyl ether 3 500 mL and the combined ethereal extracts were washed successively with 500 mL each of 5 aqueous NaOH and brine. The separated organic layer was dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to a brown oil. The material was purified by vacuum distillation through an air condenser. The solid distillate was recrystallized from 200 mL of cold hexanes to give 68 g 52 yield of 2 4 dichlorothiazole 7 as colorless needles. m.p. 42 43 C. lit. 42 43 C. . H NMR 500 MHz 7.04 s 1H .

Preparation of 4 chlorothiazole 8 procedure adapted from 1962 1735 A mixture of 58 g 377 mmol of 2 4 dichlorothiazole 7 87 g 1.3 mol zinc dust and 800 mL of acetic acid was refluxed for 6 hours. Thin layer chromatography indicated complete consumption of the dichloride. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and filtered. The filter cake was washed with 3 50 mL of acetic acid. The filtrate was poured onto 2 kg of ice and was treated with about 1.3 L of 50 w v aqueous NaOH until a slightly basic mixture resulted pH 9 . The mixture was extracted with diethyl ether 3 600 mL and the combined ethereal extracts were washed successively with 500 mL of saturated aqueous NaHCOand 500 mL of brine. The separated organic layer was dried over KCO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to give 33 g 73 yield of 4 chlorothiazole 8 as a colorless liquid of sufficient purity to use without further purification. H NMR 500 MHz 8.77 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 7.19 d 1H J 2.3 Hz .

Preparation of 4 methoxythiazole 9 A mixture of sodium methoxide prepared by treating 450 mL of methanol with 21 g 913 mmol of sodium metal and 29.3 g 245 mmol of 4 chlorothiazole 8 was refluxed for 24 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and was reduced in volume by about half by concentrating on a rotovap. The mixture was dissolved in 500 mL of water and extracted with diethyl ether 500 mL then 3 200 mL . The combined ethereal extracts were washed with 500 mL of brine dried over MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The resulting red oil was purified by flash chromatography silica gel 5.5 30 cm chloroform and then by vacuum distillation to give 17.5 g 62 yield of 4 methoxythiazole 9 as a colorless liquid. H NMR 500 MHz 8.58 d 1H J 2.2 Hz 6.16 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 3.96 s 3H .

Preparation of 4 dodecyloxythiazole 10 A mixture of 4.0 g 34.7 mmol of 4 methoxythiazole 9 12.8 g 68.7 mmol of dodecanol 0.7 g 3.7 mmol of p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate and 75 mL of toluene was heated at 130 C. for 24 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature and purified by flash chromatography silica gel 5.5 30 cm methylene chloride . The resulting oily solid was recrystallized from 20 mL of cold pentane to give 5.15 g 55 yield of 4 dodecyloxythiazole 10 as a colorless solid. H NMR 500 MHz 8.58 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 6.13 d 1H J 2.3 Hz 4.13 t 2H J 6.6 Hz 1.83 m 2H 1.49 1.28 m 18H 0.90 t 3H J 7.0 .

Preparation of 4 dodecyloxy 2 triisopropylsilyl thiazole 11 A solution of 4.38 g 16.3 mmol of 4 dodecyloxythiazole 10 in 150 mL of THF was cooled to 78 C. The resulting suspension was treated dropwise with 6.50 mL 16.3 mmol of n BuLi 2.5 M in hexanes . The mixture was stirred for 2 hours then the dry ice bath was removed for several minutes to form a yellow solution. The mixture was cooled to 78 C. and treated with 3.76 g 19.5 mmol of triisopropylchlorosilane. The dry ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 90 minutes. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and separated by flash chromatography silica gel 5.5 33 cm chloroform to give 6.24 g 90 yield of compound 11 as a pale yellow oil. H NMR 500 MHz 6.24 s 1H 4.10 t 2H J 6.7 Hz 1.83 m 2H 1.49 1.23 m 21H 1.13 d 18H 0.90 t 3H J 7.0 .

Preparation of 4 4 bis dodecyloxy 2 2 bis triisopropylsilyl 5 5 bithiazole 12 A solution of 6.24 g 14.7 mmol of compound 11 in 150 mL of THF was cooled to 78 C. and treated dropwise with 6.45 mL 16.1 mmol of n BuLi 2.5 M in hexanes . The mixture was stirred for 45 minutes then the dry ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 1 hour. The mixture was cooled to 0 C. and treated with 5.69 g 16.1 mmol of Fe acac Strem Chemicals Inc. . The mixture was heated in an 80 C. oil bath for 2 h cooled to room temperature and filtered. The filter cake was washed with 3 25 mL of THF. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and purified by flash chromatography silica gel 5.5 35 cm chloroform to give 6.0 g 96 yield of compound 12 as a yellow oil. H NMR 500 MHz 4.51 t 4H J 6.3 Hz 1.86 0.88 m 88H .

Preparation of 4 4 bis dodecyloxy 5 5 bithiazole 13 To a solution of 6.0 g 7.06 mmol of compound 12 in 150 mL of THF at 0 C. was added a solution of 21.2 mL 21.2 mmol of tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1.0 M in THF dropwise over 5 minutes. The mixture was stirred for 30 minutes at 0 C. then the ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 90 minutes. The mixture was treated with 2 mL of water concentrated in vacuo and separated by flash chromatography silica gel 5.5 35 cm 1 1 hexane chloroform to methylene chloride . The resulting solid was recrystallized from hexanes to give 2.98 g 79 yield of compound 13 as colorless needles. H NMR 500 MHz 8.43 s 2H 4.47 t 4H J 6.5 Hz 1.90 1.20 m 40H 0.90 t 6H J 7.0 Hz .

Preparation of 4 4 bis dodecyloxy 2 2 bis trimethylstannyl 5 5 bithiazole 14 A solution of 0.16 g 0.298 mmol of compound 13 in 24 mL of THF was cooled to 78 C. The resulting suspension was treated dropwise with 0.29 mL 0.725 mmol n BuLi 2.5 M in hexanes and stirred for 30 minutes. The dry ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 30 minutes. The mixture was treated with 0.167 g 0.84 mmol of trimethyltin chloride and heated in an oil bath at 60 C. for 30 minutes. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo. The resulting oily solid was triturated with 15 mL of hexanes and filtered warm. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to a yellow oil that solidified on standing to give 252 mg 98 yield of compound 14. H NMR 500 MHz 4.46 t 4H J 6.5 Hz 1.88 1.22 m 40H 0.88 t 6H J 7.0 Hz 0.44 s 18H .

A mixture of 0.20 g 0.373 mmol of compound 13 0.16 g 0.90 mmol of N bromosuccinimide and 40 mL of chloroform was heated in an oil bath at 60 C. for 1.5 hours. The mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting solid was boiled with 40 mL of pentane and hot filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the resulting solid was recrystallized from 20 mL of absolute ethanol to give 197 mg 76 yield of compound 15 as colorless needles. m.p. 65 C. H NMR 500 MHz 4.39 t 4H J 6.5 Hz 1.82 1.24 m 40H 0.90 t 6H J 7.0 Hz .

An air free vessel was charged with 34.6 mg 0.0498 mmol of compound 15 41 mg 0.0475 mmol of compound 14 1.4 mg 0.0015 mmol Pddba and 3.7 mg 0.012 mmol of P o tolyl . The mixture was subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with N. THF 4 mL was added the tube was sealed and the mixture was stirred in an oil bath at 80 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature poured into 10 mL of methanol and filtered through a cellulose thimble for soxhlet extraction with methanol 1 h acetone 1 h hexanes 1 h and chloroform 40 mL 30 min. . The chloroform extract was cooled to room temperature whereupon a precipitate formed. The mixture was added to 40 mL of methanol and filtered to give 46 mg 90 yield of polymer P27 as a purple solid.

An air free vessel was charged with 100 mg 0.116 mmol of compound 14 50 mg 0.106 mmol of N dodecyl 3 6 dibromophthalimide 3.0 mg 0.003 mmol Pddba and 8.0 mg 0.026 mmol of P o tolyl . The mixture was subjected to 3 pump purge cycles with N. THF 7 mL was added the tube was sealed and the mixture was stirred in an oil bath at 80 C. for 4 hours. The mixture was cooled to room temperature poured into 50 mL of methanol and filtered. The solid was purified by soxhlet extraction with methanol 1 h acetone 1 h hexanes 1 h and chloroform. The chloroform extract was cooled to room temperature added to 40 mL of methanol and filtered to give P28 as a brown solid.

Cyclic voltammetry measurements of polymers were carried out under nitrogen atmosphere using a BAS CV 50W voltammetric analyzer with 0.1 M tetra n butylammonium hexafluorophosphate in actonitrile as supporting electrolyte. A platinum disk working electrode a platinum wire counter electrode and silver wire reference electrode were employed and Fc Fc was used as reference for all measurements. The scan rate was 50 mV S. Polymer films were produced by drop casting from 0.2 w w toluene solutions. The supporting electrolyte solution was thoroughly purged with Nbefore all CV measurements.

Thin film transistor TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P2 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P2 10 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiOsubstrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 0.20 cm Vs and current on off ratio of 1 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P5 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P5 7 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiO2 substrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 0.07 cm Vs and current on off ratio of 5 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P6 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P6 7 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiO2 substrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 0.002 cm Vs and current on off ratio of 2 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P8 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P8 7 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiO2 substrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 3 10cm Vs and current on off ratio of 3 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

Similar TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P9 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P9 7 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiO2 substrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 2 10cm Vs and current on off ratio of 1 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

Similar TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P10 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P10 7 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiO2 substrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 0.001 cm Vs and current on off ratio of 5 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P13 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P13 7 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiO2 substrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 0.003 cm Vs and current on off ratio of 1 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

TFT devices 25 50 m channel lengths L and 500 1000 m channel widths W were fabricated with P15 using bottom gate top contact configuration. N doped Si SiO 300 nm thick thermal oxide substrates were pre treated with octadecyltrichorosilane OTS . Semiconductor solution of P15 7 mg mL in chloroform dichlorobenzene mixture was spin coated onto OTS treated SiO2 substrates. The semiconductor film was then baked at 100 C. in a vacuum oven for 1 hour. The gate region was accessed by an ohmic contact to the Si substrate and Au source and drain contacts were evaporated through a shadow mask onto the semiconductor layer. All electrical measurements were performed in ambient atmosphere. Average hole mobility of 4 10cm Vs and current on off ratio of 1 10were achieved. Data reported here are average values measured from at least three devices tested at different locations on the semiconductor film.

The present teachings encompass embodiments in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting on the present teachings described herein. Scope of the present invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced therein.

