---

title: Therapeutic compounds
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09096544&OS=09096544&RS=09096544
owner: Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute
number: 09096544
owner_city: LaJolla
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101223
---
This patent application claims the benefit of priority of U.S. application Ser. No. 61 289 977 filed Dec. 23 2009 which application is herein incorporated by reference.

The invention described herein was made with government support under Grant Number RO1 CA109370 awarded by the National Institutes of Health and with government support from the Department of Veterans Affairs. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

Numerous advances have been made in both the classification and prognosis of acute myelogenous leukemia AML based on recent molecular observations. While the inherent heterogenous nature of AML was initially described using the French American British classification the discoveries of unique chromosomal translocations gene amplification and mutations and their effects on prognosis and response to therapy have resulted in new and more clinically relevant classification systems. Despite these advances the mainstay for AML treatment has remained chemotherapy. Targeted therapy has played a role in the treatment of selective AML subtypes. Treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia APL with pharmacologic concentrations of trans retinoic acid tRA results in 90 of the patients achieving a complete remission. This dramatic response of APL cells to high concentrations of tRA is due to the presence of a unique t 15 17 reciprocal translocation resulting in the generation of a promyelocytic leukemia PML retinoic acid nuclear receptor RAR fusion product which even in the presence of physiologic concentrations of tRA displays increased binding to co repressors and induces maturation arrest at the promyelocyte stage. Exposure of these cells to micromolar concentrations of tRA results in the disassociation of PML RAR from the co repressors enhancing its binding by co activators with the subsequent initiation of gene transcription. Unfortunately tRA efficacy is restricted to APL with no activity demonstrated in the other AML subtypes. Moreover with tRA inducing its own catabolism maintenance therapy may be ineffective with time. New targeted agents including fms related tyrosine kinase receptor FLT 3 and farnesyltransferase inhibitors are being evaluated as potential therapeutic modalities for the treatment of AML.

Adamantyl substituted retinoid related ARR molecules are a unique class of compounds which have been found to induce apoptosis in a large number of tumor types many of which display resistance to classical retinoids such as tRA. The mechanism s utilized by the ARRs in the induction of cell death is not clear. 6 3 1 Adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 naphthalenecarboxylic acid CD437 AHPN while initially determined to be a selective activator of the retinoic acid receptors RARs and has been found in numerous studies to inhibit cell growth and induce apoptosis in a variety of malignant cell types utilizing a RAR and retinoid X receptor RXR independent mechanism. In addition 4 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chlorocinnamic acid 3 Cl AHPC which binds to the RARs but does not activate the RARs or RXRs is a potent inducer of apoptosis of AML cells in vitro. Recent reports suggest that the novel nuclear receptor the small nuclear heterodimer partner SHP NR0B2 is involved in the induction of apoptosis by the ARRs.

Despite the reports cited above there is currently a need for additional chemical agents that are useful for inducing apoptosis and or for treating cancer and in particular for treating leukemias. There is also a need for apoptosis inducers and anticancer agents that have enhanced activity or that have improved pharmacologic properties such as increased solubility or better bioavailability. There is also a need for apoptosis inducers and or anticancer agents that are less toxic or that have an enhanced therapeutic window.

The present invention provides compounds that act as inducers of apoptosis and or caspase activators and or anticancer agents. In addition representative compounds of the invention display increased solubility relative to reported compounds. Accordingly there is provided a compound of the invention which is a compound of formula I 

Zis CR Zis CR Zis CRand Zis N or Zis N Zis CR Zis CRand Zis N or Zis CR Zis N Zis CRand Zis N or Zis CR Zis CR Zis N and Zis N or Zis CR Zis N Zis CRand Zis CR or Zis CR Zis N Zis N and Zis CR 

Ris adamantyl nor adamantyl bicyclooctyl or C C alkynyl wherein any adamantyl nor adamantyl bicyclooctyl or C C alkynyl of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more groups e.g. 1 2 or 3 selected from OH oxo O CHand NH 

Ris OH OC O R OC O NRR or OC O OR and Ris H halo CN NO C C alkyl OH C C alkoxy NRR COR C O R NR C O R C O NRR wherein any alkyl or alkoxy of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 groups selected from halo oxo hydroxy NRRand C C alkoxy or Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form an alkyenedioxy ring wherein alkylenedioxy ring is optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 1 2 or 3 C C alkyl 

Ris H halo CN NO N OH C C alkyl C C alkoxy NRR NR C O Ror COR wherein any alkyl or alkoxy of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 groups selected from halo oxo hydroxy CN NRR C O NRRand C C alkoxy 

Ris H halo CN NO N OH C C alkyl C C alkoxy NRR NR C O Ror COR wherein any alkyl or alkoxy of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 groups selected from halo oxo hydroxy CN C O NRRand C C alkoxy 

Rand Rare each independently selected from H or C C alkyl or Rand R together with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

Rand Rare each independently H or C C alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

Rand Rare each independently H or C C alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

Rand Rare each independently selected from H or C C alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

The invention also provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier.

The invention also provides a method for inducing cell death or apoptosis in a cell comprising contacting the cell in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for inducing apoptosis or cell death in a mammal e.g. a human in need of such treatment comprising administering to the mammal an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for activating one or more caspase e.g. caspase 3 or caspase 9 in a cell comprising contacting the cell in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for activating one or more caspase e.g. caspase 3 or caspase 9 in a mammal e.g. a human in need of such treatment comprising administering to the mammal an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for inhibiting cancer e.g. lung cancer breast cancer colorectal cancer hepatic cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer or leukemia including acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia or chronic myelogenous leukemia cell growth comprising contacting the cancer cell in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for treating cancer e.g. lung cancer breast cancer colorectal cancer hepatic cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer or leukemia e.g. acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia or chronic myelogenous leukemia in a mammal e.g. a human comprising administering to the mammal an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for modulating SHP or inducing cell death or apoptosis in a pancreatic cancer stem cell comprising contacting the cell in vitro or in vivo with an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a salt thereof.

The invention also provides a method for modulating SHP or inducing cell death or apoptosis in a pancreatic cancer stem cell in a mammal e.g. a human in need of such treatment comprising administering to the mammal an effective amount of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof.

The invention also provides a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in medical therapy e.g. for use in inducing apoptosis inducing cell death activating one or more caspase such as caspase 3 or caspase 9 or treating cancer such as lung cancer breast cancer colorectal cancer hepatic cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer or leukemia including acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia or chronic myelogenous leukemia .

The invention also provides the use of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament useful for inducing apoptosis inducing cell death activating one or more caspase e.g. caspase 3 or caspase 9 or for the treatment of cancer e.g. lung cancer breast cancer colorectal cancer hepatic cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer prostate cancer or leukemia including acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia or chronic myelogenous leukemia in a mammal e.g. a human .

The invention also provides the use of a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for the manufacture of a medicament useful for modulating SHP or inducing cell death or apoptosis in a pancreatic cancer stem cell in a mammal e.g. a human .

The invention also provides a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof for use in the prophylactic or therapeutic treatment of cancer e.g. lung cancer breast cancer colorectal cancer hepatic cancer ovarian cancer pancreatic cancer or leukemia including acute lymphocytic leukemia acute myelogenous leukemia or chronic myelogenous leukemia in a mammal e.g. a human .

The invention also provides processes and novel intermediates disclosed herein that are useful for preparing compounds of formula I or salts thereof. Some of the compounds of formula I are useful to prepare other compounds of formula I.

The following definitions are used unless otherwise described halo is fluoro chloro bromo or iodo. Alkyl alkoxy alkenyl alkynyl etc. denote both straight and branched groups but reference to an individual radical such as propyl embraces only the straight chain radical a branched chain isomer such as isopropyl being specifically referred to.

Aryl denotes a phenyl radical or an ortho fused bicyclic carbocyclic radical having about nine to ten ring atoms in which at least one ring is aromatic. Examples of aryl include phenyl indenyl and naphthyl.

Heteroaryl encompasses a radical of a monocyclic aromatic ring containing five or six ring atoms consisting of carbon and one to four heteroatoms each selected from the group consisting of non peroxide oxygen sulfur and N X wherein X is absent or is H O C C alkyl phenyl or benzyl. Heteroaryl also includes a radical of an ortho fused bicyclic of about eight to ten ring atoms comprising one to four heteroatoms each selected from the group consisting of non peroxide oxygen sulfur and N X provided at least one of the rings of the bicyclic is aromatic and provided that the aromatic ring is comprised of at least one heteroatom. Examples of heteroaryl include furyl imidazolyl triazolyl triazinyl oxazoyl isoxazoyl thiazolyl isothiazoyl pyrazolyl pyrrolyl pyrazinyl tetrazolyl pyridyl thienyl pyrimidinyl indolyl isoquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinoline benzofuran benzimidazole tetrahyroquinolyl and quinolyl.

The term alkylenedioxy ring refers to a ring fused to two adjacent carbon atoms of an aryl group e.g phenyl so that the ring is either 5 or 6 atoms and wherein the ring has two oxygen atoms. The two oxygen atoms of the alkylenedioxy ring are each connected to the adjacent carbon atoms of the aryl group and the two oxygen atoms are separated from one another by an methyl or ethyl group.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that compounds of the invention having a chiral center may exist in and be isolated in optically active and racemic forms. Some compounds may exhibit polymorphism. It is to be understood that the present invention encompasses any racemic optically active polymorphic or stereoisomeric form or mixtures thereof of a compound of the invention which possess the useful properties described herein it being well known in the art how to prepare optically active forms for example by resolution of the racemic form by recrystallization techniques by synthesis from optically active starting materials by chiral synthesis or by chromatographic separation using a chiral stationary phase.

Specific values listed below for radicals substituents and ranges are for illustration only they do not exclude other defined values or other values within defined ranges for the radicals and substituents. The specific values listed below are specific values for compounds of formula I as well as compounds of formula IIa IIb IIc IId IIe and IIf.

Specifically C C alkyl can be methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl iso butyl sec butyl pentyl 3 pentyl or hexyl C C alkyl can be methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl iso butyl sec butyl pentyl 3 pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl or decyl C C cycloalkyl can be cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl or cyclohexyl C C alkoxy can be methoxy ethoxy propoxy isopropoxy butoxy iso butoxy sec butoxy pentoxy 3 pentoxy or hexyloxy C C alkynyl can be ethynyl 1 propynyl 2 propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 3 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 pentynyl 4 pentynyl 1 hexynyl 2 hexynyl 3 hexynyl 4 hexynyl 5 hexynyl 1 heptynyl 1 octynyl or 1 nonyl.

Zis CR Zis CR Zis CRand Zis N or Zis N Zis CR Zis CRand Zis N or Zis CR Zis N Zis CRand Zis N or Zis CR Zis CR Zis N and Zis N or Zis CR Zis N Zis CRand Zis CR or Zis CR Zis N Zis N and Zis CR 

Ris H halo CN NO C C alkyl OH C C alkoxy NRR COR C O R NR C O R C O NRR wherein any alkyl or alkoxy of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 groups selected from halo oxo hydroxy NRRand C C alkoxy 

Ris H halo CN NO N OH C C alkyl C C alkoxy NRR NR C O Ror COR wherein any alkyl or alkoxy of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 groups selected from halo oxo hydroxy CN NRR C O NRRand C C alkoxy 

Ris H halo CN NO N OH C C alkyl C C alkoxy NRR NR C O Ror COR wherein any alkyl or alkoxy of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more e.g. 1 2 3 4 or 5 groups selected from halo oxo hydroxy CN NRR C O NRRand C C alkoxy 

Rand Rare each independently selected from H or C C alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

Rand Rare each independently H or C C alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

Rand Rare each independently H or C C alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

Rand Rare each independently selected from H or C C alkyl or Rand Rtogether with the nitrogen to which they are attached form a pyrrolidino piperidino piperazino azetidino morpholino or thiomorpholino 

Another specific group of compounds of formula I are compounds wherein Zis CR Zis CR Zis N and Zis N.

Another specific group of compounds of formula I are compounds wherein Zis CR Zis N Zis CRand Zis CR.

Another specific group of compounds of formula I are compounds wherein Zis CR Zis N Zis N and Zis CR.

Another specific value for Ris adamantyl wherein any adamantyl of Rmay be optionally substituted with one or more groups selected from OH and oxo O .

A specific group of compounds of formula I are compounds wherein Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a alkylenedioxy ring wherein the alkylenedioxy ring is optionally substituted with one or more C C alkyl.

Another specific group of compounds of formula I are compounds wherein Rand Rtogether with the atoms to which they are attached form a methylenedioxy ring.

Processes for preparing compounds of formula I are provided as further embodiments of the invention and are illustrated by the following procedures in which the meanings of the generic radicals are as given above unless otherwise qualified.

Representative compounds of the invention were prepared as illustrated in general Scheme 1. This method can also be used to prepare compounds wherein Rand or Ris other than hydrogen.

Additional compounds of the invention can be prepared by the following the steps outlined in Scheme 1. For example by utilizing a substituted phenol of 1 e.g. a phenol of formula 1a compounds wherein Ris other than hydrogen may be prepared.

A compound of formula I wherein Ris H can be prepared by saponifying the corresponding ester 11 to provide a compound of formula I wherein Ris H. A compound of formula I wherein Ris OC O CHcan be prepared by acylating a corresponding phenol 12 to provide a compound of formula I wherein Ris OC O CH. This method can also be used to prepare compounds wherein Rand or Ris other than hydrogen.

Intermediates useful for preparing a compound of formula I include compounds of formula 13 14 15 14a and 15a.

In cases where compounds are sufficiently basic or acidic a salt of a compound of formula I can be useful as an intermediate for isolating or purifying a compound of formula I. Additionally administration of a compound of formula I as a pharmaceutically acceptable acid or base salt may be appropriate. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts are organic acid addition salts formed with acids which form a physiological acceptable anion for example tosylate methanesulfonate acetate citrate malonate tartrate succinate benzoate ascorbate ketoglutarate and glycerophosphate. Suitable inorganic salts may also be formed including hydrochloride sulfate nitrate bicarbonate and carbonate salts.

Salts including pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be obtained using standard procedures well known in the art for example by reacting a sufficiently basic compound such as an amine with a suitable acid affording an anion. Alkali metal for example sodium potassium or lithium or alkaline earth metal for example calcium salts of carboxylic acids can also be made.

The compounds of formula I can be formulated as pharmaceutical compositions and administered to a mammalian host such as a human patient in a variety of forms adapted to the chosen route of administration i.e. orally or parenterally by intravenous intramuscular topical or subcutaneous routes.

Thus the present compounds may be systemically administered e.g. orally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle such as an inert diluent or an assimilable edible carrier. They may be enclosed in hard or soft shell gelatin capsules may be compressed into tablets or may be incorporated directly with the food of the patient s diet. For oral therapeutic administration the active compound may be combined with one or more excipients and used in the form of ingestible tablets buccal tablets troches capsules elixirs suspensions syrups wafers and the like. Such compositions and preparations should contain at least 0.1 of active compound. The percentage of the compositions and preparations may of course be varied and may conveniently be between about 2 to about 60 of the weight of a given unit dosage form. The amount of active compound in such therapeutically useful compositions is such that an effective dosage level will be obtained.

The tablets troches pills capsules and the like may also contain the following binders such as gum tragacanth acacia corn starch or gelatin excipients such as dicalcium phosphate a disintegrating agent such as corn starch potato starch alginic acid and the like a lubricant such as magnesium stearate and a sweetening agent such as sucrose fructose lactose or aspartame or a flavoring agent such as peppermint oil of wintergreen or cherry flavoring may be added. When the unit dosage form is a capsule it may contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as a vegetable oil or a polyethylene glycol. Various other materials may be present as coatings or to otherwise modify the physical form of the solid unit dosage form. For instance tablets pills or capsules may be coated with gelatin wax shellac or sugar and the like. A syrup or elixir may contain the active compound sucrose or fructose as a sweetening agent methyl and propylparabens as preservatives a dye and flavoring such as cherry or orange flavor. Of course any material used in preparing any unit dosage form should be pharmaceutically acceptable and substantially non toxic in the amounts employed. In addition the active compound may be incorporated into sustained release preparations and devices.

The active compound may also be administered intravenously or intraperitoneally by infusion or injection. Solutions of the active compound or its salts can be prepared in water optionally mixed with a nontoxic surfactant. Dispersions can also be prepared in glycerol liquid polyethylene glycols triacetin and mixtures thereof and in oils. Under ordinary conditions of storage and use these preparations contain a preservative to prevent the growth of microorganisms.

The pharmaceutical dosage forms suitable for injection or infusion can include sterile aqueous solutions or dispersions or sterile powders comprising the active ingredient which are adapted for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable or infusible solutions or dispersions optionally encapsulated in liposomes. In all cases the ultimate dosage form should be sterile fluid and stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage. The liquid carrier or vehicle can be a solvent or liquid dispersion medium comprising for example water ethanol a polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol liquid polyethylene glycols and the like vegetable oils nontoxic glyceryl esters and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the formation of liposomes by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersions or by the use of surfactants. The prevention of the action of microorganisms can be brought about by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol sorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars buffers or sodium chloride. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by the use in the compositions of agents delaying absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions are prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in the appropriate solvent with various of the other ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filter sterilization. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and the freeze drying techniques which yield a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient present in the previously sterile filtered solutions.

For topical administration the present compounds may be applied in pure form i.e. when they are liquids. However it will generally be desirable to administer them to the skin as compositions or formulations in combination with a dermatologically acceptable carrier which may be a solid or a liquid.

Useful solid carriers include finely divided solids such as talc clay microcrystalline cellulose silica alumina and the like. Useful liquid carriers include water alcohols or glycols or water alcohol glycol blends in which the present compounds can be dissolved or dispersed at effective levels optionally with the aid of non toxic surfactants. Adjuvants such as fragrances and additional antimicrobial agents can be added to optimize the properties for a given use. The resultant liquid compositions can be applied from absorbent pads used to impregnate bandages and other dressings or sprayed onto the affected area using pump type or aerosol sprayers.

Thickeners such as synthetic polymers fatty acids fatty acid salts and esters fatty alcohols modified celluloses or modified mineral materials can also be employed with liquid carriers to form spreadable pastes gels ointments soaps and the like for application directly to the skin of the user.

Examples of useful dermatological compositions which can be used to deliver the compounds of formula I to the skin are known to the art for example see Jacquet et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 608 392 Geria U.S. Pat. No. 4 992 478 Smith et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 559 157 and Wortzman U.S. Pat. No. 4 820 508 .

Useful dosages of the compounds of formula I can be determined by comparing their in vitro activity and in vivo activity in animal models. Methods for the extrapolation of effective dosages in mice and other animals to humans are known to the art for example see U.S. Pat. No. 4 938 949.

The amount of the compound or an active salt or derivative thereof required for use in treatment will vary not only with the particular salt selected but also with the route of administration the nature of the condition being treated and the age and condition of the patient and will be ultimately at the discretion of the attendant physician or clinician.

In general however a suitable dose will be in the range of from about 0.5 to about 100 mg kg e.g. from about 10 to about 75 mg kg of body weight per day such as 3 to about 50 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day preferably in the range of 6 to 90 mg kg day most preferably in the range of 15 to 70 mg kg day.

The compound is conveniently formulated in unit dosage form for example containing 5 to 1000 mg conveniently 10 to 750 mg most conveniently 50 to 500 mg of active ingredient per unit dosage form. In one embodiment the invention provides a composition comprising a compound of the invention formulated in such a unit dosage form.

The desired dose may conveniently be presented in a single dose or as divided doses administered at appropriate intervals for example as two three four or more sub doses per day. The sub dose itself may be further divided e.g. into a number of discrete loosely spaced administrations such as multiple inhalations from an insufflator or by application of a plurality of drops into the eye.

Compounds of the invention can also be administered in combination with other therapeutic agents for example other agents that are useful for the treatment of cancer. Such agents include but are not limited to alkylating agents antimetabolites anti tumor antibiotics topoisomerase inhibitors mitotic inhibitors corticosteroids anti angiogenic agents plant alkaloids and hormonal agents. Examples include but are not limited to Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sunitinib SUTENT Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVEC Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Sorafenib NEXAVAR Bayer Irinotecan CAMPTOSAR Pfizer Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca ADRIAMYCIN TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France GEMZAR gemcitabine NAVELBINE vinorelbine capecitabine XELODA tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate FARESTON toremifine citrate MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN VAXID PROLEUKIN LURTOTECAN ABARELIXO bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech cetuximab ERBITUX Imclone panitumumab VECTIBIX Amgen rituximab RITUXAN Genentech Biogen Idec pertuzumab OMNITARG 2C4 Genentech trastuzumab HERCEPTIN Genentech and gemtuzumab ozogamicin MYLOTARG Wyeth .

Accordingly in one embodiment the invention also provides a composition comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof at least one other therapeutic agent and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent or carrier. The invention also provides a kit comprising a compound of formula I or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof at least one other therapeutic agent packaging material and instructions for administering the compound of formula I or the pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and the other therapeutic agent or agents to a mammal.

RPMI medium fetal bovine serum FBS and Trizol reagent were purchased from Invitrogen Grand Island N.Y. . Anti XIAP anti c IAP and anti SHP antibodies were from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. . Anti procaspase 3 and active cleaved caspase 3 antibodies were from Cell Signaling Bellerica Mass. and tubulin from Oncogene Research Products Boston Mass. respectively.

FFMA AML cells were obtained from a patient with a diagnosis of AML as indicated by the immunophenotyping described in Table 1. This patient was refractory to the chemotherapy regimens consisting of cytosine arabinoside given with daunomycin as well as high dose cytosine arabinoside. Peripheral blood samples were obtained from the patient utilizing a Wayne State University Institutional Review Board approved protocol and the leukemic blasts were isolated utilizing Ficoll hypaque. The isolated leukemic cells representing 99 of the cells were subsequently cultured in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 heat inactivated fetal bovine serum FBS and growth factors interleukin 3 IL 3 granulocyte colony stimulating factor G CSF granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor GM CSF and stem cell factor SCF as we have previously reported and then the cells were maintained in 10 FBS and gentamycin Zhang Y. et al. Blood 2003 192 3743 3752 . The TF v SRC leukemia cells have been previously described Black J. H. et al. Leukemia. 2003 17 155 159 . TF v SRC cells were grown in RPMI 1640 supplemented with 10 heat inactivated FBS.

Apoptosis of cells was determined by 1 acridine orange and ethidium bromide staining to assess cells with nuclear fragmentation and chromatin condensation as previously described Farhana L. et al. Cancer Res. 2006 65 4909 4917 and 2 flow cytometry assessing Annexin V FITC binding together with propidium iodide staining Annexin V FITC apoptosis Detection kit 1 BD Biosciences San Diego Calif. . Data acquisition was done on a FACS Calibur flow cytometer BD and analyzed with CellQuest software.

Non obese diabetic severe combined immunodeficiency NOD SCID and ICR SCID mice were obtained from Jackson Laboratories Bar Harbor Me. and Taconic Farms Germantown N.Y. respectively. A FFMA AML and TF v SRC systemic models NOD SCID and ICR SCID mice 4 to 5 weeks old were injected with either FFMA AML or TF v SRC cells intravenously. Treatment with either vehicle 3 Cl AHPC or compound 16 the compound of Example 1 was instituted the following day. Once symptoms such as diarrhea dehydration weight loss ascites paralysis or general weakness became evident mice were euthanized. B TF v SRC subcutaneous mouse model. ICR SCID mice were trocared subcutaneously bilaterally with TF v SRC tumor fragments. Animals with equal tumor weights determined as described previously Zhang Y. et al. Blood. 2002 100 2917 2925 were assigned to three experimental arms 1 control vehicle treated 2 subcutaneously treated with compound 16 and 3 intravenously treated with compound 16. The percent increase in the host life span ILS of the FFMA AML and TF v SRC bearing mice was calculated by subtracting the median day of death of the 3 Cl AHPC or compound 16 treated AML bearing mice from the median day of death of the vehicle treated AML bearing mice divided by the median day of death of the AML bearing vehicle treated mice. In order to determine the efficacy of the 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 survival distribution of the 3 Cl AHPC or compound 16 treated T or vehicle C groups were compared using the log rank test. Survival was characterized as the duration of the animal s life span 24 h after the initiation of the xenograft until an observed event euthanasia or death . A p value of less than 5 p

Western blots RNA preparation and RT PCR were performed as described previously Farhana L. et al. Molecular Cancer Therapeutics 2009 8 1625 1635 .

shRNA SHP retroviral expression vectors were prepared as described previously Farhana L. et al. Cancer Res 2007 67 318 325 . FFMA AML and TF vSRC cell lines were transiently transfected with retroviral shRNA SHP plasmids either for 48 or 72 h. SHP protein expression was assessed using Western blots after 72 h infection with shRNA SHP retroviral expression vector in the FFMA AML and TF vSRC cells. Anti SHP antibody was obtained from MBL International Corporation Woburn Mass. and Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. . Effect of SHP knockdown on 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 induction of apoptosis in cells was assessed 48 h following infection with shRNA SHP expression vectors. Apoptosis was determined using an Annexin V FITC apoptosis detection kit.

The ability of a compound of the invention to act as an inducer of apoptosis and inhibitor of acute myelogenous leukemia AML cell growth was determined using Test A described below.

Methods for measuring the inhibition of cell growth and induction of apotosis followed literature procedures Dawson M. I. et al. J. Med. Chem. 2007 50 2622 2639 . Table I below shows the inhibition of cell growth and induction of apoptosis in AML KG 1 human myeloid cell line by representative compounds of the invention.

The ability of a compound of the invention to act as an inducer of apoptosis may be determined using Test B described below.

The ability of 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 to induce apoptosis of FFMA AML and TF v SRC cells was examined by assessing the number of cells demonstrating nuclear fragmentation and chromatin condensation and B . Cells were grown in the presence and absence of increasing concentrations of either 3 Cl AHPC or compound 16 and for varying periods of time. There was a progressive increase in 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 mediated apoptosis in both FFMA AML and TF v SRC cells with time and with increasing concentrations of the compounds. TF v SRC cells displayed increased resistance compared to FFMA AML cells to both 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 with an EDof 0.75 M when TF v SRC cells were exposed to the compounds and B . Under similar conditions FFMA AML cells displayed EDvalues of 0.32 M and 0.37 M to compound 16 and 3 Cl AHPC respectively. Previous studies have demonstrated that acute promyelocytic leukemia APL cells undergo apoptosis in the presence of all trans retinoic acid tRA 9 cis RA and the RAR selective retinoid TTNPB through their ability to bind to the PML RAR fusion protein Weise K et al. Cell. 1994 76 345 354 . We therefore tested the sensitivity of FFMA AML and TF v SRC cells to apoptosis induction by tRA 9 cis RA and TTNPB . The addition of either tRA 9 cis RA or TTNPB to the FFMA AML cells resulted in approximately 10 to 20 of the cells displaying apoptosis over that noted with the vehicle while the addition of 3 Cl AHPC resulted in 80 of the cells displaying apoptosis . TF v SRC cells were very resistant to the induction of apoptosis by those compounds 9 cis RA tRA or TTNPB whose biological effects are mediated through the RARs and or RXRs as no real increase in apoptosis was noted following exposure .

To further document 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 mediated apoptosis in the FFMA AML and TF v SRC cells cells were exposed to 1 M 3 Cl AHPC or compound 16 for varying times and then annexin V FITC binding assessed using flow cytometry. There was a progressive increase in annexin V FITC positive cells with time . Previous studies showed that CD437 AHPN and 3 Cl AHPC induced apoptosis in variety of malignant cells through a caspase dependent process Mologni L et al. Blood 1999 93 1045 106 Farhana L. et al. Molecular Cancer Therapeutics 2009 8 1625 1635 . 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 induced caspase 3 activation as indicated by the generation of the catalytically active 17 kDa cleaved caspase 3 protein and increased caspase 3 activity in lysates from the treated AML cells.

The ability of a compound of the invention to act as an inducer of apoptosis was determined using Test C described below.

Inhibition of Expression of Anti Apoptotic Protein X Linked Inhibitor of Apoptosis Protein MAP Cellular Inhibitor of Apoptosis 1 c IAP1 and Phospho Bad.

Previous research has demonstrated that exposure of breast and prostate cancer cells to 3 Cl AHPC resulted in the decreased expression of the anti apoptotic proteins XIAP and c IAP1 Farhana L. et al. Cancer Res. 2006 65 4909 4917 . The proteins c IAP1 c IAP2 and XIAP bind caspases resulting in inhibition of caspase activity Jin H S. et al. Cancer Res. 2009 69 1782 1701 . In addition c IAP1 and c IAP2 possess E3 ligase activity and play important roles in NF B activation Jin H S. et al. 2009 . The Bcl 2 family member Bad enhances apoptosis and is inactivated through phosphorylation to phosphorylated Bad Eisenmann K. M. et al. Cancer Res. 2003 63 8330 8337 . To assess modulation of anti apoptotic protein expression during the induction of apoptosis in the AML cells by compound 16 the expression of XIAP c IAP1 and phospho Bad as well as cleavage of the DNA damage repair poly ADP ribose polymerase PARP was assessed following exposure of the AML cells to compound 16. Compound 16 exposure of FFMA AML and TF v SRC cells in vitro resulted in 70 to 80 decreased expression of the anti apoptotic proteins XIAP and c IAP 1 and phospho Bad. In addition cleavage of PARP was noted following the decrease in c IAP1 XIAP and phospho Bad levels to further document induction of apoptosis in the AML cells by compound 16 .

The ability of a representative compound of the invention to inhibit FFMA AML cell growth in mice was determined using Test D described below.

The ability of 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 to inhibit the growth of FFMA AML cells in NOD SCID mice was determined. NOD SCID mice randomly assigned to two groups of eight mice each were injected with 1 million cells through the tail vein. The mice then received either vehicle or 3 Cl AHPC 30 mg kg given intravenously twice daily for 4 days. 3 Cl AHPC treatment of the NOD SCID mice resulted in a significant p value 0.0001 increase in the length of survival 25 over mice treated with vehicle only . Similar results were obtained when 3 Cl AHPC was given through an intraperitoneal route using the same dosage of 3 Cl AHPC and treatment schedule . Treatment of the mice with 3 Cl AHPC was associated with toxicity including weight loss and decreased physical activity. Tail vein injection of NOD SCID mice with FFMA AML cells and treatment 24 h later with compound 16 at doses of either 5.0 mg kg or 7.5 mg kg given twice a day for 4 days resulted in a significant increase in survival p 0.0002 compared to that noted in mice treated with vehicle alone ILS 26 . Compound 16 therapy was extremely well tolerated and no toxicity was noted in the mice. Accordingly compounds of the invention may be useful as therapeutic agents with a decreased toxicity profile for the treatment of cancer including AML.

The ability of a representative compound of the invention to inhibit TF v SRC cell growth in mice was determined using Test E described below.

The ability of compound 16 to inhibit the growth of TF v SRC cells in SCID mice was determined. SCID mice were injected with 10 million TF v SRC cells. The mice were treated intravenously with compound 16 20 mg kg or vehicle every other day for a total of 15 doses. Treatment with compound 16 resulted in a marked increase in the length of survival with no evidence of leukemia in 87 of the treated mice . TF v SRC growth in the SCID mice was documented by flow cytometry. Flow cytometric analysis of lymph node or tumor sample specimens obtained from the mice treated with vehicle alone revealed the presence of TF v SRC cells with expression of CD45 CD13 CD34 CD33 CD36 and CD40 in the lymph nodes and tumor specimens Table 2 . No malignant cells were identified in the compound 16 treated cells.

The ability of a representative compound of the invention to inhibit tumor growth was determined using Test F described below.

Compound 16 modulation of c IAP1 Ki67 activated caspase 3 phospho p65 DR4 and DR5 levels was examined during compound 16 inhibition of TF v SRC tumor growth experiment. TF v SRC cells were trocared subcutaneously in SCID mice and allowed to form palpable tumors. When the palpable tumors reached a size of 100 mg the mice received either vehicle or compound 16 . Compound 16 was given either subcutaneously at a remote site from the palpable tumor or intravenously at a dose of 20 mg kg every other day for 4 doses. Control mice received vehicle intravenously. Compound 16 treatment given either intravenously or subcutaneously resulted in a 55 reduction in TF v SRC growth .

The ability of a representative compound of the invention to have an enhanced therapeutic window was determined using Test G described below.

Mice were treated with escalating doses of either compound 16 or 3 Cl AHPC to establish the difference in toxicity MTD between these compounds as measured by decreased body weight . Two groups of mice each consisting of two female ICR SCIDS mice were injected IV with either compound 16 or 3 Cl AHPC once a day for 7 days. The initial IV injection of 20 mg kg for each compound was increased by 25 for each ensuing dose. Body weights were measured on each of the seven days with the final body weights determined 48 hours post final dose. One of the mice in the group treated with 3 Cl AHPC died 48 hours after the final injection. The final weight for this mouse was recorded 2 hours after death.

The solubility of representative compounds of the invention were determined using Test H described below.

Standard curves at the UV 330 350 and 345 nm for 3 Cl AHPC 18 and 16 respectively were generated using 0.245 0.163 0.049 and 0.025 mM 3 Cl AHPC and 0.380 0.178 0.053 and 0.027 mM 18 and 16 which were prepared from 1.0 wt vol solutions of compounds in MeSO. Calibration curves were used to demonstrate linearity of response. Measurements for maximum solubilities in distilled water pH 5 and phosphate buffered saline PBS pH 7.2 at 22 C. were made by UV absorbance using solutions obtained after saturation at higher temperatures overnight incubation at 22 C. and centrifugation to remove undissolved material.

Thus representative compounds of the invention such as compounds 18 and 16 display significantly enhanced solubility when compared to related compounds such as 3 Cl AHPC.

The ability of a representative compound of the invention to induce apoptosis and inhibit the growth of pancreatic cells was determined using Test I described below.

Pancreatic cancer cell lines COLO357 PANC 1 Capan 2 AsPc 1 cells and MiaPaCa 2 cells obtained from American Type Culture Collection ATCC Rockville Md. were treated with 1 M 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 for various times. Apoptosis in cells were analyzed by flow cytometry using Annexin V FITC binding together with propidium iodide PI staining Annexin V FITC apoptosis Detection Kit 1 BD Biosciences San Diego Calif. . Data acquisition was done on a FACS Calibur flow cytometer BD and analyzed with CellQuest software BD Biosciences . 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 mediated inhibition of cell growth were determined by 3 4 5 dimethylthiazol 2 yl 2 5 diphenyltetrazolium bromide MTT assay. The cells were seeded on 96 well plates at a density of 4 10cells well in a volume of 200 l culture medium. 1 M AHP3 and 3 Cl AHPC in DMSO final concentration 0.1 were added to the cells for various times. 25 l well of MTT 5 mg ml were added to the medium and incubated for 4 h. After discarding the medium MTT precipitates were solubilized with 200 l DMSO and the plates read on a BioTeK Synergy HT BioTeK Instrument Inc. Vermont at an absorbance 570 nm. All experiments were performed in quadruplicate to determine means and standard deviations. The spheroids were stained with acridine orange ethidium bromide staining and immediately visualized and photographed with fluorescence microscope OLYMPUS CKX41 . For DAPI staining the spheroids were incubated with DAPI stain for 30 minutes at 37 C. Then spheroids were visualized and photographed with a fluorescence microscope.

Exposure of COLO357 PANC 1 Capan 2 AsPc 1 cells and MiaPaCa 2 cells to 1 M of either compound 16 or 3 Cl AHPC resulted in significant inhibition of growth and the induction of apoptosis. Induction of apoptosis was noted in 80 of the COLO357 cells at 48 h and in 50 of the PANC 1 and Capan 2 cells at 48 h. Apoptosis was also noted in the AsPc 1 and MiaPaCa 2 cells at 72 h.

The ability of a representative compound of the invention to induce apoptosis and inhibit the growth of pancreatic cancer stem cells was determined using Test J described below.

Apoptosis and Growth Inhibition of Pancreatic Cancer Stem Cells Obtained from PANC 1 Capan 2 and MiaPaCa 2 Cells by Compound 16 and 3 Cl AHPC.

Cells were grown to 70 80 confluence and then trypsinised and washed with sorting buffer 1 PBS 5 FCS . The cells were resuspended with 100 A sorting buffer and incubated with 15 20 l anti CD24 FITC anti CD44 PE primary antibodies for 30 min at ice. The cells were washed and resuspended in 500 l of sorting buffer and sorted using FACSAria system BD Immunocytochemistry Systems Franklin lakes NJ .

The sorted CD44 CD24 cells were suspended in serum free stem cell medium containing DMEM F12 1 1 supplemented with B27 Life Technologies Gaithersburg Md. 20 ng ml EGF Biomol International Plymouth Pa. 20 ng ml fibroblast growth factor Biomol International Plymouth Pa. and 100 g ml gentamycin. Approximately 150 200 cells per well were seeded in an ultra low attachment 96 well plate Corning Inc Lowell Mass. . 3 Cl AHPC and compound 16 were added the day after cells were plated or after 7 days of spheroid formation. Spheriods were photographed and measured utilizing a Olympus microscope OLYMPUS CKX41 and Olympus microscope digital camera with DP2 BSW software Olympus soft imaging solutions GmbH Germany .

Cells were extracted with lysis buffer containing 25 mM Tris Cl buffer pH 8.0 150 mM NaCl 0.2 nonidet P 40 10 glycerol 10 mM NaF 8 mM glycerophosphate 0.2 mM Na3VO4 1 mM DTT and 10 l ml protease inhibitor cocktail Sigma Aldrich St. Louise Mo. and Western blots were performed as we previously described.

Approximately 150 spheroids were fixed with 4 paraformaldehyde in 1 Triton X 100 washed in PBS dehydrated in methanol 25 50 75 95 100 and then rehydrated in descending percentage of methanol and washed in PBS. Spheriods were incubated in 3 normal goat serum Vector Lab Burlingame Calif. at 4 C. for 24 h and washed in phosphate buffered saline with 0.5 Tween 20 PBST . Then spheroids were incubated with primary antibodies anti CD44 and anti CD24 for 48 h at 4 C. washed in PBST and incubated with anti mouse IgGTRITC conjugate for CD44 and anti rabbit IgG FITC conjugate for CD24 for 24 h. Spheroids were mounted in 8 chambered slides and fluorescence staining analyzed. Spheroids grown in 96 well ultra low attachment plates were incubated with DAPI at 37 C. for 30 minutes to assess DAPI staining.

DMSO vehicle and 3 Cl AHPC treated spheroids were centrifuged at 1000 rpm for 5 minutes washed in PBS 22 bovine serum albumin added to the spheroids pellet 95 ethanol placed on the spheroids pellet and the pellet allowed to harden for 30 minutes. Neutral buffered formalin 10 was added to fix the cell pellet for at least 2 h and the spheroids were then placed in a labeled plastic tissue embedding cassette containing 10 neutral buffered formalin overnight. The spheroids were processed in a Sakura Tissue Tek Processor for overnight dehydration in graded ethanol clearing in xylene and infiltration with paraffin. The spheroids were placed in a 4 m embedding mold for final paraffin embedding.

The TUNEL assay was performed using the In Situ Cell Death Detection kit POD Roche Applied Science Mannheim Germany according to the manufacturer s instructions.

The paraffin embedding spheroids were deparaffinized and rehydrated then tissues sections were incubated with proteinase K solution 10 20 g ml for 30 min. Tissues were then rinsed twice in PBS and reacted with 50 l of the TUNEL reaction mixture at room temperature for 60 min in a dark humidified chamber. Sections were again rinsed in PBS and incubated for 30 min with 50 l of the Converter POD RocheApplied Science and followed by 3 amino 9 ethylcarbazole AEC . Sections were then counterstained with hematoxylin. As negative controls corresponding sections were treated in the same way without terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase.

Human GIPZ lentiviral shRNAmir expression vector GFP tagged pGIPZ shRNA IGF 1R were purchased from Open Biosystems Thermo Scientific Huntsville Ala. . shRNA IGF 1R expression vectors were stably transfected into PANC 1 and Capan 2 cell lines using lipofectamine 2000. Stable cell lines were selected with puromycin. The scrambled sequence shRNA vector was used as a control. pGIPZshRNA expression vector clone ID V2LSH 20147 V2LSH 13 1072 V3LSH 377850 V3LSH 377852 V3LSH 377849 inhibited IGF 1R expression more effectively in PANC 1 cells than other clones from a set of eight tested clones.

All statistics were performed using VassarStats web statistical software Richard Lowry Poughkeepsie N.Y. USA . One way analysis of variance ANOVA was performed to detect any differences between groups of spheroid control 3 Cl AHPC treated spheroids and AHP3 treated spheroids. If the result of the ANOVA is significant P

The addition of compound 16 or 3 ClAHPC to these CD24 CD44 cells inhibited their ability to form spheroids. Furthermore the addition of compound 16 or 3 Cl AHPC to the pancreatic cancer stem cell spheroids resulted in their disaggregation and the induction of apoptosis in the cells comprising the spheroid. Compound 16 and 3 Cl AHPC inhibition of spheroid formation as well as the induction of apoptosis in the spheroid forming cells as documented by DNA fragmentation and positive TUNEL staining occurred at achievable physiologic concentrations with exposure of as little as 500 nM of compound 16 or 3 Cl AHP3 resulting in the disaggregation of the spheroid and the induction of apoptosis.

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 1.8 g 4.4 mmol in methanol 45 mL was added 5 M aqueous sodium hydroxide 4.44 mL 22.2 mmol . The mixture was heated at 82 C. under argon for 1 hour cooled quenched with dilute hydrochloric acid and extracted into ethyl acetate 380 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. The concentrated residue was chromatographed 1 2 0 to 4 0 1 ethyl acetate hexane methanol and the yellow solid obtained R0.43 1 1 04 ethyl acetate hexane methanol on concentration was washed hexane methylene chloride and chloroform to give 1.52 g 91 of compound 16 as a yellow powder mp 290 292 C. decomposed . IR 3315 2847 1673 1435 1265 cm H NMR CDOD 1.86 bs 6H AdCH 2.10 bs 3H AdCH 2.25 m 6H AdCH 6.72 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.84 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.64 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.12 dd J 8.1 Hz 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.34 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.98 ppm s 2H 4 PyrH 6 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 377.1860. found 377.1875.

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A solution of 5 bromo 2 chloropyrimidine 4.03 g 20.8 mmol ethyl acrylate 9.06 mL 83.3 mmol palladium diacetate 187 mg 0.830 mmol and tri o tolyl phosphine 762 mg 2.50 mmol in dimethylformamide 22 mL and diisopropylethylamine 11 mL was heated at reflux for 3.5 h then cooled to room temperature and diluted with brine. The suspension was extracted with ethyl acetate. The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed silica gel 11 ethyl acetate hexane to give 3.26 g 73 of ethyl E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 125 127 C. IR 2905 1698 1542 1405 1160 cm H NMR CDCl 1.38 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 4.32 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.60 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.61 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.79 s 2H 4 PyrH 6 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHClNO M H 213.0425. found 213.0428.

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenylboronic acid Zhang Y. et al. Blood 2002 100 2917 2925 Dawson M. I. et al. J. Med. Chem. 2004 47 3518 3536 3.62 g 10.0 mmol and ethyl 2E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 1.76 g 8.30 mmol in dimethoxyethane 50 mL was added under argon tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 1.15 g 1.00 mmol and 2 M aqueous NaCO 10 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux for 18 h cooled to room temperature diluted with ethyl acetate washed water and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 9 to 14 ethyl acetate hexane to give 3.98 g 96 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 164 167 C. IR 2903 1710 1432 1225 cm H NMR CDCl 1.40 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.77 bs 6H AdCH 2.11 bs 3H AdCH 2.26 bs 6H AdCH 4.33 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.24 s 2H CH 6.59 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.08 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.35 7.58 m 5H CH 7.65 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.33 dd J 8.7 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.47 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.91 ppm s 2H 4 PyrH 6 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 495.2642. found 495.2636.

A solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 2.30 g 4.65 mmol 1.0 M boron tribromide 16 mmol in dichloromethane 16 mL and dichloromethane 40 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with water and saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate and extracted into ethyl acetate. The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 16 to 20 ethyl acetate hexane to give 1.8 g 95 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a pale yellow solid mp 226 228 C. IR 3345 2856 1715 1456 cm H NMR CDCl 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.83 bs 6H AdCH 2.13 bs 3H AdCH 2.24 bs 6H AdCH 4.33 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.38 bs 1H OH 6.59 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.79 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.65 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.22 dd J 8.1 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.44 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.90 ppm s 2H 4 ArH 6 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 405.2173. found 405.2191.

To a solution of ethyl 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 carbethoxymethylamino pyrimidine 41.6 mg 0.100 mmol in 3 2 1 THF CHOH HO 2.4 mL was added LiOH.HO 21 mg 0.49 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was suspended in 2 N HCl 10 mL to adjust the pH to 1 before extraction with EtOAc 60 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 20 EtOAc hexane to give 38 mg 98 of compound 17 as a pale tan solid mp 235 C. dec . IR 3420 2902 1691 1215 cm H NMR DMSO d 1.73 bs 6H AdCH 2.04 bs 3H AdCH 2.10 m 6H AdCH 4.15 bs 1H NH 4.43 s 2H NHCHCO 6.85 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.91 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.12 s 1H 2 ArH 8.40 s 2H 4 ArH 6 ArH 9.93 ppm s 1H OH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 380.1974. found 380.1975.

The intermediate ethyl 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 carbethoxymethylamino pyrimidine was prepared as follows.

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenylboronic acid 1 833 g 2.3 mmol and 2 chloro 5 nitropyrimidine 2 320 mg 2.00 mmol in degassed toluene 15 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 347 mg 0.300 mmol NaHCO 336 mg 4.00 mmol and degassed HO 3 mL . The mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 24 h cooled to room temperature and extracted with EtOAc 180 mL . The extract was washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 3 EtOAc hexane to give 165 mg 19 of 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 5 nitropyrimidine as a yellow solid mp 206 C. dec . IR 2902 1405 1179 cm H NMR CDCl 1.76 bs 6H AdCH 2.09 bs 311 AdCH 2.22 m 6H AdCH 5.24 s 2H CHCH 7.07 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.34 7.53 m 5H CH 8.40 dd J 8.7 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.51 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 9.46 ppm s 2H 4 ArH 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 442.2125. found 442.2137.

A solution of 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 5 nitropyrimidine 163 mg 0.37 mmol and SnCl.2HO 418 mg 1.85 mmol in anhydrous EtOH 1.7 mL was heated at 90 C. oil bath for 3.3 h cooled to room temperature and diluted with HO 2 mL . After adjustment of the pH to 7 8 by addition of 2 N NaOH 1.6 mL and 5 NaHCO 3 mL the resulting mixture was stirred for 40 min and extracted with EtOAc 3 30 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 25 EtOAc hexane to give 53 mg 35 of 5 amino 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl pyrimidine as a light purple solid mp 216 219 C. IR 3424 2900 1182 cm H NMR CDCl 1.76 bs 6H AdCH 2.08 bs 3H AdCH 2.24 m 6H AdCH 3.74 bs 2H NH 5.21 s 2H CHCH 7.04 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.34 7.56 m 5H CH 8.13 dd J 8.7 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.28 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.43 ppm s 2H 4 ArH 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 412.2389. found 412.2391.

To a suspension of 5 amino 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl pyrimidine 49 mg 0.12 mmol and KCO 69 mg 0.50 mmol in acetone 5 mL was added ethyl bromoacetate 53 l 0.48 mmol . The mixture was heated at reflux under argon for 19 h and cooled to room temperature. After removal of acetone at reduced pressure the residue was diluted with water 8 mL and extracted with EtOAc 60 mL . The extract was washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 14 EtOAc hexane to give 53 mg 89 of 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 5 carbethoxymethylamino pyrimidine as a pale tan solid mp 153 156 C. IR 3455 2901 1710 1179 cm H NMR CDCl 1.33 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.75 bs 6H AdCH 2.07 bs 3H AdCH 2.24 m 6H AdCH 4.31 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 4.60 m 1H NH 4.73 s 2H NHCHCO 5.20 s 2H CHCH 7.03 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.32 7.55 m 5H CH 8.17 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.32 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.46 ppm s 2H 4 ArH 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 498.2757. found 498.2762.

A solution of ethyl 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 5 carbethoxymethylamino pyrimidine 51 mg 0.10 mmol 1.0 M BBr 0.56 mmol in CHCl 0.6 mL and CHCl 1.4 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with HO 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 100 mL . The extract was washed water and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 1 4 EtOAc hexane to give 41.6 mg 99 of 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 carbethoxymethylamino pyrimidine as a pale tan solid mp 190 C. dec . IR 3432 2904 1708 1211 cm H NMR CDCl 1.32 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.79 bs 6H AdCH 2.09 bs 3H AdCH 2.21 m 6H AdCH 4.30 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 4.60 m 1H NH 4.72 s 2H NHCHCO 5.85 s 1H OH 6.71 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 8.03 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.27 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.45 ppm s 2H 4 ArH 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 408.2287. found 408.2291.

A solution of ethyl E 3 6 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 2.49 g 5.04 mmol 1.0 M BBr 25 mmol in CHCl 25 mL and CHCl 45 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h then quenched with water 60 mL and sat. NaHCOuntil pH 7 8 and extracted with EtOAc 800 mL . The extract was washed water and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 14 to 33 EtOAc hexane to give 2.0 g 98 of compound 18 as a yellow solid mp 215 217 C. IR 3406 2899 1707 1478 1589 1250 cm H NMR CDCl 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.83 bs 6H AdCH 2.14 bs 3H AdCH 2.22 bs 6H AdCH 4.32 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.50 br s 1H OH 6.53 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.78 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.70 7.76 m 3H 5 ArH 6 ArH CH CHCO 7.89 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 4 ArH 7.98 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.79 ppm d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 404.2220. found 404.2219.

The intermediate ethyl E 3 6 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 pyridinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A solution of 6 bromo 3 pyridinecarboxaldehyde 3.06 g 15.63 mmol and carbethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane 6.60 g 17.97 mmol in toluene 45 mL was heated at reflux overnight and then cooled to room temperature. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 16 EtOAc hexane to give 3.9 g 97 of ethyl E 3 6 bromo 3 pyridinyl 2 propenoate as a pale yellow solid. Recrystallization from hexane yielded 3.5 g 87 of pure E isomer as a white solid mp 79 80 C. By comparison the material prepared by the literature method van den Heuvel M. et al. 2004 69 250 262 had a melting point of 83.6 84.1 C. IR 2979 1709 1462 1179 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 4.31 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.53 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.55 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.68 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.72 dd J 2.1 Hz 8.1 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.52 ppm d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH .

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenylboronic acid 3.62 g 10 mmol and ethyl E 3 6 bromo 3 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 2.12 g 8.3 mmol in degassed DME 50 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 1.15 g 1.0 mmol and 2 M aq NaCO 10 mL . The mixture was heated at reflux 92 C. oil bath for 20 h then cooled to room temperature diluted with EtOAc 300 mL washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 12 to 25 EtOAc hexane to give 4 g 97 of ethyl E 3 6 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 pyridinyl 2 propenoate as a pale yellow solid mp 60 63 C. IR 2901 1710 1234 1176 cm H NMR CDCl 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.77 bs 6H AdCH 2.10 bs 3H AdCH 2.25 bs 6H AdCH 4.32 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.22 s 2H ArCH 6.53 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.07 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.28 7.57 m 5H ArH 7.72 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.75 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.85 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.90 dd J 8.7 Hz 2.7 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.03 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.81 ppm d J 2.7 Hz 1H 2 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 494.2690. found 494.2687.

To a solution of ethyl E 3 6 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 1.92 g 4.75 mmol in MeOH was added 5 M NaOH 4.76 mL 23.8 mmol . The mixture was heated at 86 C. under argon for 1.5 h then cooled to room temperature diluted with 2 N HCl 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 60 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. The residue obtained on concentration was washed hexane CHCland CHCl to give on drying 1.69 g 94 of compound 19 as a yellow solid mp 316 C. dec . IR 3363 2900 1648 1589 1412 cm H NMR DMSO d 1.77 bs 6H AdCH 2.08 bs 3H AdCH 2.15 bs 6H AdCH 6.68 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.88 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.64 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.80 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.88 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.98 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.16 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.85 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 9.78 s 1H OH 12.31 ppm bs 111 COH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 376.1907. found 376.1916.

To a solution of E 3 6 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 pyridinyl 2 propionic acid 50 mg 0.13 mmol in THF was added AcO 25 L 0.27 mmol and DMAP 33 mg 0.27 mmol . The mixture was stirred under argon for 27 h quenched with HO 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 40 30 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 1 1 0 to 10 5 1 EtOAc hexane MeOH to give 47 mg 84 of compound 20 as a pale yellow solid mp 260 C. dec . IR 2900 1754 1690 1204 cm H NMR DMSO d 1.77 bs 6H AdCH 2.03 bs 6H AdCH 2.10 bs 31 1 AdCH 2.38 s 3H CHCO 6.74 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.18 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.67 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.98 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.03 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5 ArH 8.16 s 1H 2 ArH 8.25 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.93 d 1H 2 ArH 12.43 ppm bs 1H COH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 418.2013. found 418.2016.

To a solution of ethyl E 3 3 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 6 pyridazinyl 2 propenoate 6 28 mg 0.07 mmol in MeOH 1.05 mL was added 5 M NaOH 70 L 0.70 mmol . The solution was heated 82 C. oil bath under argon for 50 min cooled to room temperature quenched with 2 N HCl 8 mL and extracted with EtOAc 60 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. The residue obtained on concentration was triturated hexane and CHCl to give 23 mg 88 of compound 21 as a yellow solid mp 181 C. dec . IR 3373 2900 1693 1543 cm H NMR MeOH d 1.87 bs 6H AdCH 2.12 bs 3H AdCH 2.27 m 6H AdCH 6.91 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 6.98 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.80 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.88 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.00 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.03 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 5 ArH 8.11 ppm d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 377.1860. found 377.1873.

The intermediate ethyl E 3 3 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 6 pyridazinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

The reported procedure Goodman A. J. et al. 1999 55 15067 15070 was followed. A suspension of 3 6 dichloropyridazine 2 5 000 g 33.56 mmol NaI 6.75 g 45.0 mmol and HI 55 to 58 25 mL was stirred at 44 C. oil bath under argon for 23 h cooled to room temperature and quenched with conc. NaOH to pH 12 then stirred for 10 min and extracted with CHCl. The extract was washed HO and dried. Solvent removal at reduced pressure gave 7.96 g 98 of 3 chloro 6 iodopyridazine as a pale yellow solid mp 114 116 C. lit 110 112 C. . H NMR CDCl 7.23 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 4 ArH 7.84 ppm d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5 ArH.

A suspension of 3 chloro 6 iodopyridazine 2.4 g 10 mmol ethyl acrylate 4.4 mL 40 mmol palladium II acetate 90 mg 0.40 mmol and tri o tolyl phosphine 366 mg 1.20 mmol in DMF 10 mL and diisopropylethyl amine 5 mL was stirred with heating 111 C. oil bath for 3.5 h cooled to room temperature diluted with HO 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 300 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 14 to 20 EtOAc hexane to give 174 mg 8 of ethyl E 3 3 chloro 6 pyridazinyl 2 propenoate as a brown solid mp 106 110 C. IR 2928 1715 1186 cm H NMR CDCl 1.38 t J 7.5 Hz 3H CHCH 4.33 q J 7.5 Hz 2H CHCH 7.98 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.57 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 4 ArH 7.63 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.86 ppm d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO . HRMS calcd CHClNO M H 213.0425. found 213.0431.

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenylboronic acid 337 mg 0.931 mmol and ethyl E 3 3 chloro 6 pyridazinyl 2 propenoate 165 mg 0.776 mmol in degassed DME 5 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 115 mg 0.100 mmol and 2 M aq NaCO 1 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 20 h cooled to room temperature and diluted with EtOAc 300 mL . The extract was washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 14 to 20 EtOAc hexane to give 59 mg 15 of ethyl E 3 3 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 6 pyridazinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 134 136 C. IR 2912 1710 1578 1230 cm H NMR CDCl 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.77 bs 6H AdCH 2.09 bs 3H AdCH 2.24 bs 6H AdCH 4.34 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.24 s 2H ArCH 7.02 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.11 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.34 7.51 m 3H ArH 7.52 7.57 m 2H ArH 7.65 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.86 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4 ArH 7.92 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.96 dd J 8.7 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.15 ppm d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 495.2642. found 495.2630.

A solution of ethyl E 3 3 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 6 pyridazinyl 2 propenoate 53 mg 0.11 mmol 1.0 M BBr 0.43 mmol in CHCl 0.43 mL and CHCl 2 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with HO 10 mL and sat. NaHCOto pH 7 8 and extracted with EtOAc 80 mL . The extract was washed water and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 14 to 33 EtOAc hexane to give 36 mg 84 of ethyl E 3 3 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 6 pyridazinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 246 248 C. IR 3360 2907 1714 1568 1227 cm H NMR acetone d 1.36 t J 7.5 Hz 31 1 OCHCH 1.86 bs 6H AdCH 2.13 bs 3H AdCH 2.30 bs 6H AdCH 4.30 q J 7.5 Hz 2H OCHCH 7.03 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.06 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.91 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.96 dd J 8.4 Hz 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.06 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 5 ArH 8.17 d J 9.0 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.20 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.96 ppm s 1H OH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 405.2173. found 405.2174.

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chloro 5 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 32 mg 0.073 mmol in 3 2 1 THF MeOH HO 1.2 mL at 0 C. was added LiOH.HO 18.4 mg 0.44 mmol . This mixture was stirred at 0 C. under argon for 5 h then quenched with 2 N HCl until pH 3 to 4 and extracted with EtOAc 40 20 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. The residue obtained on concentration was washed hexane CHCland CHCl to give 26 mg 87 of compound 22 as a yellow solid mp 186 188 C. IR 3377 2901 1688 1412 cm H NMR MeOH d 1.85 bs 6H AdCH 2.09 bs 3H AdCH 2.24 bs 6H AdCH 6.69 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.84 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.46 dd J 8.4 2.1 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.58 d J 2.1 Hz 1H 2 ArH 7.69 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.26 s 1H 4 PyH 8.70 ppm s 1H 2 PyH . HRMS calcd CHClNO M H 410.1517. found 410.1515.

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chloro 5 pyridinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A reported method Ognyanov V. I. et al. 2006 49 3719 3742 was used to synthesize 2 3 dichloro 5 formylpyridine. A mixture of 5 6 dichloro 3 pyridinemethanol 1.42 g 8.00 mmol and MnO 13.9 g 160 mmol in 1 1 CHCl hexane 8 mL was stirred for 1 h then diluted with 50 EtOAc hexane 20 mL and filtered 50 EtOAc hexane wash . The filtrate was evaporated and the residue was dried in vacuo for use in the next step.

A solution of crude 2 3 dichloro 5 formylpyridine and carbethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane 2.14 g 5.83 mmol in toluene 12 mL was heated at reflux overnight and then cooled to room temperature. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 9 to 10 EtOAc hexane to give 323 mg 16 from 5 6 dichloro 3 pyridinemethanol of ethyl E 3 5 6 dichloro 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate as a white solid mp 102 103 C. IR 2914 1702 1428 1193 cm H NMR CDCl 1.37 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 4.31 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.53 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.62 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.94 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.44 ppm d J 1.8 Hz 1H 2 ArH . HRMS calcd CHClNO M H 246.0083. found 246.0086.

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenylboronic acid 204 mg 0.570 mmol and ethyl E 3 5 6 dichloro 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 4 123 mg 0.500 mmol in degassed DME 6 mL was added 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II .CHClcomplex 25 mg 0.03 mmol and CsCO 652 mg 2.00 mmol . The reaction mixture was stirred at 75 C. for 17 h and then at 90 C. for 15 h before being cooled to room temperature diluted with HO 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 100 50 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 9 to 11 EtOAc hexane to give 85 mg 32 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 3 chloro 5 pyridinyl 2 propenoate as a viscous pale yellow oil. IR 2903 1711 1233 1176 cm H NMR CDCl 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.76 bs 6H AdCH 2.08 bs 3H AdCH 2.23 bs 6H AdCH 4.33 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.22 s 211 ArCH 6.57 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.05 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.28 7.57 m 5H CH 7.65 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.66 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.77 s 1H 2 ArH 7.95 s 1H 4 PyH 8.71 ppm s 1H 2 PyH . HRMS calcd CHClNO M H 528.2300. found 528.2299.

A solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 3 chloro 5 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 72 mg 0.14 mmol 1.0 M boron tribromide 0.55 mmol in CHCl 0.6 mL and CHCl 2 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with water 8 mL and sat. NaHCO 8 mL and extracted with EtOAc 70 mL and 40 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 13 to 25 EtOAc hexane to give 36 mg 61 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 3 chloro 5 pyridinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 260 261 C. IR 3373 2905 1712 1411 1183 cm H NMR CDCl 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.82 bs 6H AdCH 2.12 bs 3H AdCH 2.20 bs 6H AdCH 4.33 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.21 s 1H OH 6.57 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.77 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.58 dd J 1.5 8.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.67 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.71 d J 1.5 1H 2 PyH 7.96 s 1H 4 PyH 8.71 ppm s 1H 2 PyH . HRMS calcd CHClNO M H 438.2830. found 438.1826.

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate 7 310 mg 0.77 mmol in MeOH 9 mL was added 5 M aq NaOH 0.77 mL 3.83 mmol . The mixture was heated at 81 C. under argon for 1 h cooled to room temperature quenched with 2 N HCl 22 mL and then extracted with EtOAc 100 mL 50 mL and 20 mL . The extracts were washed brine and dried. The yellow solid obtained on concentration was washed hexane and CHCl to give 254 mg 88 of compound 23 as a yellow powder mp 296 C. dec. . H NMR CDOD and CDCl 1.65 bs 6H AdCH 1.95 bs 3H AdCH 2.06 bs 6H AdCH 6.72 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 6.78 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.55 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.57 dd J 8.5 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.77 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.49 s 1H 3 PyrH 8.82 ppm s 1H 6 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 377.1860. found 377.1859.

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

To a solution of 5 cyano 2 bromopyrazine 1.02 g 5.54 mmol in anhydrous toluene 15 mL at 78 C. was added 1 M diisobutyl aluminum hydride 8.32 mmol in CHCl 8.3 mL . The reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 min warmed to room temperature stirred for 26 h and then diluted with MeOH 4 mL and stirred for 30 min at room temperature before addition of 10 HSO 55 mL . The resulting solution was stirred for 1.75 h and extracted with EtOAc 100 mL 50 mL . After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 11 to 14 EtOAc hexane to give 289 mg 28 of 5 bromo pyrazine 2 carbaldehyde as an orange solid mp 56 58 C. IR 2960 1654 1546 1111 cm H NMR CDCl 8.83 d J 1.24 Hz 1H 6 PyrH 8.91 d J 1.24 Hz 1H 3 PyrH 10.13 ppm s 1H CHO . HRMS calcd CHBrNO M H 186.9501. found 186.9496.

A solution of 5 bromo pyrazine 2 carbaldehyde 284 mg 1.52 mmol and carbethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane 668 mg 1.82 mmol in toluene 5 mL was heated at reflux for 18 h and then cooled to room temperature. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 11 to 14 EtOAc hexane to give 369 mg 94 of an E and Z mixture of ethyl 3 5 bromo 2 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate as a pale yellow solid. Crystallization hexane yielded 243 mg 62 of the pure E isomer as a cream solid mp 70 71 C. IR 2940 1707 1457 1103 cm H NMR CDCl 1.33 t J 7.3 Hz 3H OCHCH 4.28 q J 7.3 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.99 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.62 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.40 d J 1.24 Hz 1H 6 PyrH 8.68 ppm d J 1.24 Hz 1H 3 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHBrNO M H 256.9920. found 256.9915.

A solution of 2 5 dibromopyrazine 238.0 mg 1.0 mmol ethyl acrylate 174.0 L 1.6 mmol palladium II acetate 3.4 mg 0.015 mmol and tri o tolyl phosphine 36.5 mg 0.12 mmol in DMF 1.4 mL and diisopropylethylamine 0.7 mL was heated at reflux 115 C. oil bath for 4.4 h cooled to room temperature and then quenched with HO. The suspension was extracted with EtOAc 300 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 11 EtOAc hexane to give 22 mg 8.5 of ethyl E 3 5 bromo 2 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate as a cream solid.

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenylboronic acid 474 mg 1.31 mmol and ethyl E 3 5 bromo 2 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate 278 mg 1.08 mmol in DME 11 mL degassed was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 151 mg 0.13 mmol and degassed 2 M NaCO 2.3 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 19.5 h cooled to room temperature and then diluted with EtOAc 155 mL . The organic layer was washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 10 to 25 EtOAc hexane to give 488 mg 91 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 5 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 145 148 C. IR 2899 1710 1238 cm H NMR CDCl 1.35 t J 7.3 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.73 bs 6H AdCH 2.06 bs 3H AdCH 2.20 bs 6H AdCH 4.29 q J 7.3 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.19 s 2H CH 6.98 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.04 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.28 7.52 m 5H CH 7.72 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.84 dd J 8.5 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.02 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.63 d J 1.24 Hz 1H 3 PyrH 8.99 ppm d J 1.24 Hz 1H 6 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 495.2642. found 495.2659.

A solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 5 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate 477 mg 0.96 mmol 1.0 M boron tribromide 3.86 mmol in CHCl 3.86 mL and CHCl 13 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with water 50 mL and extracted with EtOAc 100 mL 50 mL and 30 mL . The extracts were washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 20 to 33 EtOAc hexane to give 367 mg 94 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 pyrazinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 212 215 C. IR 3352 2843 1686 cm H NMR CDCl 1.35 t J 7.3 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.79 bs 6H AdCH 2.10 bs 3H AdCH 2.18 bs 6H AdCH 4.29 q J 7.3 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.32 s 1H OH 6.77 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 6.97 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.71 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.75 dd J 8.5 Hz 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.98 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.62 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 3 PyrH 8.97 ppm d J 1.2 Hz 1H 6 PyrH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 405.2173. found 405.2181.

To a solution of ethyl E 3 5 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 130 g 0.32 mmol in MeOH 4.5 mL was added 5 M NaOH 0.32 mL 1.61 mmol . The mixture was heated at 80 C. under argon for 1.67 h then cooled to room temperature diluted with 2 N HCl 20 mL and concentrated until dryness. The residue was solubilized in MeOH and filtered. Concentration of the filtrate produced a yellow solid that was washed hexane and CHCl to give on drying 121 mg 100 of compound 24 as a yellow solid mp 260 C. dec. . H NMR CDOD 1.84 bs 6H AdCH 2.09 bs 3H AdCH 2.23 bs 6H AdCH 6.92 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.06 d J 16.5 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.53 dd J 2.4 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.57 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 7.77 d J 16.5 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.32 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3 ArH 8.70 dd J 1.8 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 4 ArH 9.0 ppm d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 376.1907. found 376.1908.

The intermediate ethyl E 3 5 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A solution of 5 bromo 2 formylpyridine 1.07 g 5.58 mmol and carbethoxymethylene triphenylphosphorane 2.46 g 6.70 mmol in toluene 13 mL was heated at reflux for 17 h and then cooled to room temperature. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 10 to 14 EtOAc hexane to give 1.42 g 99 of 2 as a pale yellow solid. Crystallization hexane yielded 1.28 g 89 of pure E isomer as a white solid mp 78 80 C. H NMR CDCl 1.34 t J 7.3 Hz 3H OCHCH 4.27 q J 7.3 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.91 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.31 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3 ArH 7.62 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.84 dd J 2.4 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.69 ppm d J 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHBrNO M H 255.9968. found 255.9967.

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenylboronic acid 235 mg 0.65 mmol and ethyl E 3 5 bromo 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 2 128 mg 0.5 mmol in degassed DME 4 mL was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 58 mg 0.05 mmol and 2 M NaCO 0.8 mL . The mixture was heated at reflux 92 C. oil bath for 24.5 h then cooled to room temperature diluted with EtOAc 130 mL washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 16.7 to 33.3 EtOAc hexane to give 246 mg 99 of ethyl E 3 5 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate as a pale yellow solid mp 49 52 C. H NMR CDCl 1.34 t J 7.0 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.75 bs 6H AdCH 2.07 bs 3H AdCH 2.20 bs 6H AdCH 4.29 q J 7.0 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.18 s 2H ArCH 6.91 d J 15.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.07 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.28 7.53 m 8H CH 2 6 ArH 3 ArH 7.73 d J 15.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.86 dd J 2.4 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.86 ppm d J 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 494.2690. found 494.2687.

A solution of ethyl E 3 5 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxyphenyl 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate 225 mg 0.46 mmol 1.0 M boron tribromide 1.82 mmol in CHCl 1.8 mL and CHCl 4.5 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h then quenched with water 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 120 mL . The extract was washed water and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was chromatographed 14 to 50 EtOAc hexane to give 168 mg 91 of ethyl E 3 5 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 2 pyridinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 197 199 C. H NMR CDCl 1.35 t J 7.3 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.80 bs 6H AdCH 2.11 bs 3H AdCH 2.18 bs 6H AdCH 4.29 q J 7.3 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.31 br s 1H OH 6.77 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 6.91 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.32 dd J 2.4 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.46 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH 7.48 d J 7.90 1H 3 ArH 7.73 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.86 dd J 2.4 Hz 7.90 Hz 1H 4 ArH 8.85 ppm d J 2.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHNO M H 404.2220. found 404.2223.

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methylphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 175 mg 0.42 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was added 5 M aq. NaOH 0.42 mL 2.09 mmol . The mixture was heated at 82 C. under argon for 50 min cooled to room temperature quenched with 2 N HCl 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 90 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. The concentrated residue was washed with CHCland hexane and the yellow solid was crystallized MeOH to give 162 mg 99 of E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methylphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoic acid as a yellow powder mp 256 259 C. IR 3302 2904 2850 1714 1444 1402 1233 cm H NMR DMSO d 1.71 bs 6H AdCH 2.02 bs 311 AdCH 2.06 m 6H AdCH 2.47 s 3H CH 6.67 s 1H 3 ArH 6.76 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.59 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.88 s 1H 6 ArH 9.12 s 2H 4 6 ArH 9.72 ppm s 111 OH .

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methylphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A solution of 5 bromo 2 chloropyrimidine 4.03 g 20.8 mmol ethyl acrylate 9.06 mL 83.3 mmol palladium II acetate 187 mg 0.830 mmol and tri o tolyl phosphine 762 mg 2.50 mmol in DMF 22 mL and diisopropylethylamine 11 mL was heated at reflux 115 C. oil bath for 3.5 h cooled to room temperature and diluted with brine. The suspension was extracted with EtOAc 300 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 11 EtOAc hexane to give 3.26 g 73 of ethyl E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 125 127 C. IR 2905 1698 1542 1405 1160 cm H NMR CDCl 1.38 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 4.32 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.60 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.61 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.79 s 2H 4 ArH 6 ArH . HRMS calcd CHClNO M H 213.0425. found 213.0428.

A mixture of 4 bromo 3 methylphenol 4.68 g 25 mmol 1 adamantanol 3.81 g 25 mmol and MeSOH 1.2 mL in CHCl 18 mL was stirred and heated at 54 C. oil bath for 28.8 h. The resulting solution was diluted with CHCl 150 mL washed with HO 5 NaHCO and brine and dried. The residue obtained on concentration was washed with hot hexane to give 6.77 g 85 of 2 1 adamantyl 4 bromo 5 methylphenol as a white solid mp 155 156 C. IR 3541 2905 2845 1147 cm H NMR CDCl 1.77 bs 6H AdCH 2.07 bs 9H AdCH and AdCH 2.28 s 3H CH 4.67 s 1H OH 6.54 s 1H 6 ArH 7.30 s 1H 3 ArH .

To a solution of 2 1 adamantyl 4 bromo 5 methylphenol 6.53 g 20.34 mmol in acetone 65 mL was added benzyl bromide 3.48 g 20.34 mmol followed by KCO 3.51 g 25.43 mmol . The mixture was stirred and heated at reflux for 24 h under argon. Acetone was removed at reduced pressure and then 2 N HCl 80 mL was added. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 300 mL and the organic layer was washed with HO and brine and dried. After removal of solvent the residue was purified by chromatography on a silica gel using hexane to give 7.68 g 80 of 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methylphenyl bromide as a white solid mp 138 139 C. IR 2903 2848 1163 cm H NMR CDCl 1.71 bs 614 AdCH 2.02 bs 3H AdCH 2.08 bs 6H AdCH 2.33 s 3H CH 5.07 s 2H CHCH 6.80 s 1H 3 ArH 7.33 s 1H 6 ArH 7.3 7.5 ppm m 5H CH .

To a solution of 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methylphenyl bromide 2.66 g 6.47 mmol in THF 10 mL at 78 C. dry ice acetone bath under argon was added 1.6 M n BuLi 11.64 mmol in hexane 7.3 mL in one portion. This mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 min. Tri isopropyl borate 4.5 mL 19.40 mmol was added and the resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 20 min before being allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring overnight. The reaction mixture was quenched with 1 N HCl 40 mL and then extracted with EtOAc 100 and 60 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried. Solvents were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was washed with hexane to give 1.47 g 60 of 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methylphenylboronic acid as a white solid mp 243 247 C. IR 3226 2903 2848 1328 cm H NMR CDCl 1.74 bs 6H AdCH 2.05 bs 3H AdCH 2.20 bs 6H AdCH 2.82 s 3H CH 5.19 s 2H CHCH 6.85 s 1H 3 ArH 7.31 7.54 m 5H CH 8.19 ppm s 1H 6 ArH .

To a solution of 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methyl phenylboronic acid 403 mg 1.07 mmol and ethyl E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 189 mg 0.89 mmol in dimethoxyethane 5 mL degassed was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 124 mg 0.10 mmol and degassed 2 M NaCO 1 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 20 h cooled to room temperature and diluted with EtOAc 130 mL . The organic extract was washed HO and brine and then dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 12.5 to 14.3 EtOAc hexane to give 310 mg 68 of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methylphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a cream solid mp 168 170 C. IR 2903 2848 1712 1434 1227 cm H NMR CDCl 1.37 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.73 bs 6H AdCH 2.04 bs 3H AdCH 2.18 bs 6H AdCH 2.61 s 3H CH 4.31 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.19 s 2H CHCH 6.58 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.86 s 1H 3 ArH 7.32 7.55 m 5H CH 7.65 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.95 s 1H 6 ArH 8.92 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

A solution of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methylphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 303 mg 0.60 mmol and 1.0 M boron tribromide 2.40 mmol in CHCl 3.4 mL in CHCl 6.0 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with water 20 mL and sat. NaHCO 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 130 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 12.5 to 20 EtOAc hexane to give 233 mg 93 of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methylphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 220 223 C. IR 3325 2904 2849 1711 1439 1230 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.78 bs 6H AdCH 2.09 bs 3H AdCH 2.16 bs 6H AdCH 2.54 s 3H CH 4.30 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.14 s 1H OH 6.56 s 1H 3 ArH 6.58 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.64 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.91 s 1H 6 ArH 8.91 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 50 mg 0.12 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was added 5 M aq. NaOH 0.12 mL 0.58 mmol . The reaction mixture was heated at 82 C. under argon for 50 min cooled to room temperature and quenched with 2 N HCl 20 mL . The collected yellow solid was washed three times with distilled HO twice with EtO and twice with CHCl 2 and then crystallized MeOH to give 45 mg 96 of E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoic acid as a yellow powder mp 283 286 C. dec . IR 3352 2903 2850 1707 1563 1285 cm H NMR CDCl CDOD 1.63 bs 6H AdCH 1.94 bs 3H AdCH 1.97 bs 6H AdCH 4.00 s 3H OCH 6.45 s 1H 3 ArH 6.63 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.51 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.25 s 1H 6 ArH 9.17 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A mixture of 4 bromo 3 methoxyphenol 6.33 g 31.18 mmol 1 adamantanol 4.75 g 31.18 mmol and MeSOH 1.3 mL in CHCl 22 mL was stirred with heating at 54 C. oil bath for 29 h. The resulting solution was quenched with HO 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 140 mL . The extract was washed with HO 5 NaHCO and brine and dried. The residue obtained on concentration was purified on silica gel 0 to 15 EtOAc hexane to give 5.77 g 55 of 3 1 adamantyl 4 bromo 5 methoxyphenol as a white solid mp 151 153 C. and 2.71 g 26 of 2 1 adamantyl 4 bromo 5 methoxyphenol as a white solid mp 182 185 C. 3 1 Adamantyl 4 bromo 5 methoxyphenol IR 3515 2902 2848 1312 1216 cm H NMR CDCl 1.75 bs 6H AdCH 2.04 bs 9H AdCH and AdCH 3.79 s 311 OCH 5.29 s 1H OH 6.57 s 1H 6 ArH 7.19 ppm s 1H 2 ArH . 2 1 Adamantyl 4 bromo 5 methoxyphenol IR 3513 2902 2848 1389 1207 cm H NMR CDCl 1.77 bs 6H AdCH 2.06 bs 9H AdCH and AdCH 3.83 s 3H OCH 4.83 s 1H OH 6.29 s 1H 6 ArH 7.31 ppm s 1H 3 ArH .

To a stirred solution of 2 1 adamantyl 4 bromo 5 methoxyphenol 2.59 g 7.68 mmol in acetone 26 mL was added benzyl bromide 1.31 g 7.68 mmol followed by KCO 1.33 g 9.60 mmol . The mixture was stirred and heated at reflux for 17.25 h under argon. Acetone was removed at reduced pressure before 1 N HCl 40 mL was added. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 100 mL and the organic layer was washed with HO and brine and dried. After removal of solvent at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 0 to 4 EtOAc hexane to give 2.50 g 76 of 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methoxyphenyl bromide as a white solid mp 124 126 C. IR 2902 2847 1498 1161 cm H NMR CDCl 1.71 bs 6H AdCH 2.02 bs 311 AdCH 2.08 bs 6H AdCH 3.82 s 3H OCH 5.12 s 2H CHCH 6.53 s 1H 3 ArH 7.34 s 1H 6 ArH 7.31 7.50 ppm m 5H CH .

To a solution of 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methoxyphenyl bromide 1.86 g 4.35 mmol in THF 8 mL at 78 C. dry ice acetone bath under argon was added 1.6 M n BuLi 6.96 mmol in hexane 4.4 mL in one portion. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 min. Tri isopropyl borate 3.00 mL 13.0 mmol was added and the resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 20 min before being allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring overnight. The mixture was quenched with 1 N HCl 40 mL and then extracted with EtOAc 100 and 40 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried. Solvents were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was washed with hexane to give 1.47 g 79 of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a light gray solid mp 150 152 C. IR 3389 2902 2849 1400 1260 cm H NMR CDCl 1.71 bs 6H AdCH 2.03 bs 3H AdCH 2.13 bs 6H AdCH 3.85 s 3H OCH 5.17 s 211 CHCH 6.51 s 1H 3 ArH 7.32 7.52 m 5H CH 7.68 ppm s 1H 6 ArH .

To a solution of 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methoxyphenylboronic acid 471 mg 1.20 mmol and ethyl E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 213 mg 1.00 mmol in DME 6 mL degassed was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 138 mg 0.12 mmol and degassed 2 M NaCO 1.2 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 26 h cooled to room temperature quenched with 1 N HCl 40 mL and extracted with EtOAc 190 mL . The extract was washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 20 to 33 EtOAc hexane to give 368 mg 70 of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a light yellow solid mp 72 74 C. IR 2903 2849 1712 1435 1181 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.72 bs 6H AdCH 2.04 bs 3H AdCH 2.17 bs 6H AdCH 3.85 s 3H OCH 4.31 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.22 s 2H CHCH 6.57 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.62 s 1H 3 ArH 7.32 7.54 m 5H CH 7.63 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.84 s 1H 6 ArH 8.93 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

A solution of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 2 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 140 mg 0.27 mmol 1.0 M boron tribromide 1.07 mmol in CHCl 1.1 mL and CHCl 3.0 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with water 25 mL and sat. NaHCO 15 mL and extracted with EtOAc 130 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 25 to 50 EtOAc hexane to give 75 mg 65 of ethyl E 3 2 5 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 2 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 239 241 C. IR 3231 2904 2850 1712 1437 1181 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.79 bs 6H AdCH 2.10 bs 31 1 AdCH 2.17 bs 6H AdCH 3.36 s 3H OCH 4.30 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.11 s 1H 3 ArH 6.57 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.61 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.81 s 1H 6 ArH 8.29 bs 1H OH 8.93 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 5 methylenedioxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 138 mg 0.32 mmol in THF MeOH HO 3 2 1 6.2 mL was added 5 M aq. NaOH 0.32 mL 1.60 mmol . The mixture was heated at 80 C. under argon for 1 h cooled to room temperature quenched with 1 N HCl 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 170 mL . After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was washed with hexane and then with CHCland dried to give 128 mg 99 of E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 5 methylenedioxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoic acid as a yellow powder mp 347 350 C. dec. . IR 3435 2900 2849 1669 1418 1130 cm H NMR DMSO d 1.73 bs 6H AdCH 2.02 bs 6H AdCH 2.05 bs 3H AdCH 6.09 s 2H CH 6.78 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.57 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.72 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.99 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 9.13 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 5 methylenedioxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A mixture of 4 bromo 1 2 methylenedioxybenzene 2.00 g 9.95 mmol 1 adamantanol 1.52 g 9.95 mmol and MeSOH 5 mL was stirred for 1 h. The resulting solution was quenched with HO 40 mL and extracted with EtOAc 110 mL . The extract was washed with 0.5 N NaOH sat. NaHCO and brine and dried. The residue obtained on concentration was purified on silica gel hexane to give 2.86 g 86 of 4 1 adamantyl 6 bromobenzo 1 3 dioxole as a white solid mp 135 136 C. IR 2901 2843 1435 1189 cm H NMR CDCl 1.76 bs 6H AdCH 1.98 bs 6H AdCH 2.06 bs 3H AdCH 5.93 s 2H CH 6.84 s 1H 7 ArH 6.86 ppm s 1H 5 ArH .

To a solution of 4 1 adamantyl 6 bromobenzo 1 3 dioxole 2.10 g 6.26 mmol in THF 11 mL at 78 C. dry ice acetone bath under argon was added 1.6 M n BuLi 10.0 mmol in hexane 6.26 mL in one portion. This mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 min. Tri isopropyl borate 4.30 mL 18.8 mmol was added and the resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 20 min more before being allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring overnight. The mixture was quenched with 1 N HCl 40 mL and then extracted with EtOAc 100 and 40 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried. Solvents were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was washed with hexane and dried to give 1.23 g 65 of 3 1 adamantyl 4 5 methylenedioxyphenylboronic acid as a cream solid mp 258 261 C. IR 3231 2903 2849 1343 1164 cm H NMR CDCl 1.81 bs 6H AdCH 2.13 bs 9H AdCHand AdCH 6.02 s 2H CH 7.48 s 1H 6 ArH 7.75 ppm s 1H 2 ArH .

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 5 methylenedioxyphenylboronic acid 288 mg 0.96 mmol and ethyl E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 170 mg 0.80 mmol in dimethoxyethane 6 mL degassed was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 111 mg 0.10 mmol and degassed 2 M NaCO 1.2 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 17.3 h cooled to room temperature quenched with 1 N HCl 40 mL and extracted with EtOAc 135 mL . The extract was washed HO and brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 17 to 33 EtOAc hexane to give 283 mg 82 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 5 methylenedioxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a light yellow solid mp 204 206 C. IR 2900 2849 1702 1422 1187 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.80 bs 6H AdCH 2.11 bs 9H AdCH and AdCH 4.30 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.03 s 2H CH 6.56 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.62 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.82 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.84 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.86 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 105 mg 0.24 mmol in MeOH 3 mL was added 5 M aq. NaOH 0.24 mL 1.21 mmol . The mixture was heated at 81 C. under argon for 50 min cooled to room temperature quenched with 1 N HCl 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 120 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was crystallized MeOH to give 90 mg 92 of E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoic acid as a yellow powder mp 290 293 C. dec . IR 3503 2903 2850 1695 1579 1420 1217 cm H NMR DMSO d 1.74 bs 6H AdCH 2.05 bs 3H AdCH 2.12 bs 6H AdCH 3.88 s 3H OCH 6.77 d J 16.5 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.59 d J 16.5 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.86 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.01 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 2 ArH 9.07 s 1H OH 9.11 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

A mixture of 4 bromo 2 methoxyphenol 2.00 g 9.85 mmol 1 adamantanol 1.50 g 9.85 mmol and MeSOH 0.8 mL in CHCl 8 mL was stirred with heating at 54 C. oil bath for 18.3 h. The resulting solution was quenched with HO 30 mL and extracted with EtOAc 120 mL . The extract was washed with 5 NaHCOand brine and dried. The residue obtained on concentration was purified on silica gel 4 EtOAc hexane to give 2.5 g 76 of 2 1 adamantyl 4 bromo 6 methoxyphenol as a white solid mp 157 159 C. IR 3510 2903 2850 1413 1217 cm H NMR CDCl 1.76 bs 6H AdCH 2.07 bs 9H AdCH and AdCH 3.87 s 3H OCH 5.90 s 1H OH 6.86 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 5 ArH 6.95 ppm d J 2.4 Hz 1H 3 ArH .

To a solution of 2 1 adamantyl 4 bromo 6 methoxyphenol 3.30 g 79.78 mmol in acetone 32 mL was added benzyl bromide 1.72 g 10.07 mmol followed by KCO 1.69 g 12.2 mmol . This mixture was stirred and heated at reflux temperature for 20.75 h under argon. Acetone was removed at reduced pressure and 2 N HCl 30 mL was added. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc 150 mL and the organic layer was washed with brine and dried. After removal of solvent at reduced pressure the residue was crystallized MeOH to give 3.99 g 95 of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 5 methoxyphenyl bromide as a white solid mp 89 91 C. IR 2901 2847 1444 1201 cm H NMR CDCl 1.67 m 6H AdCH 2.00 bs 3H AdCH 2.05 bs 6H AdCH 3.85 s 3H OCH 5.07 s 2H CHCH 6.96 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.01 d J 2.3 Hz 1H 2 ArH 7.30 7.52 ppm m 5H CH .

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 5 methoxyphenyl bromide 2.85 g 6.67 mmol in THF 12 mL at 78 C. dry ice acetone bath under argon was added 1.6 M n BuLi 10.7 mmol in hexane 6.67 mL in one portion. This mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 min. Tri isopropyl borate 4.60 mL 20.0 mmol was added next and the resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 20 min before being allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring overnight. The mixture was quenched with 1 N HCl 40 mL and then extracted with EtOAc 100 and 60 mL . The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried. Solvents were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was washed with hexane and dried to give 2.3 g 88 of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 5 methoxyphenylboronic acid as a cream solid mp 148 151 C. IR 3219 2903 2848 1410 1340 1201 cm H NMR CDCl 1.72 bs 6H AdCH 2.03 bs 3H AdCH 2.17 m 6H AdCH 3.99 s 3H OCH 5.21 s 2H CHCH 7.31 7.58 m 5H CH 7.68 d J 1.4 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.92 ppm d J 1.4 Hz 1H 2 ArH .

To a solution of 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 5 methoxy phenylboronic acid 471 mg 1.20 mmol and ethyl E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 213 mg 1.00 mmol in dimethoxyethane 7.5 mL degassed was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 138 mg 0.12 mmol and degassed 2 M NaCO 1.5 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 28.5 h cooled to room temperature quenched with 1 N HCl 40 mL and extracted with EtOAc 110 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 16 to 28 EtOAc hexane to give 427 mg 81 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 5 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a cream solid mp 181 183 C. IR 2903 2849 1711 1425 1178 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.71 m 6H AdCH 2.04 m 3H AdCH 2.17 bs 6H AdCH 4.00 s 3H OCH 4.30 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.20 s 2H CHCH 6.58 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.32 7.56 m 5H CH 7.63 d J 16.2 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.00 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.15 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.90 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

A solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 benzyloxy 5 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 180 mg 0.34 mmol 1.0 M boron tribromide 1.37 mmol in CHCl 1.4 mL and CHCl 5.0 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with water 20 mL and sat. NaHCO 10 mL and extracted with EtOAc 100 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 20 to 25 EtOAc hexane to give 117 mg 78 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 adamantyl 4 hydroxy 5 methoxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a yellow solid mp 173 175 C. IR 3495 2903 2848 1710 1419 1182 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.80 m 6H AdCH 2.11 m 3H AdCH 2.21 bs 6H AdCH 4.02 s 3H OCH 4.30 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.37 s 1H OH 6.55 d J 16.5 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.63 d J 16.5 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.91 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.12 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.86 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

To a solution of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 70 mg 0.17 mmol in MeOH 2 mL was added 5 M aq. NaOH 0.17 mL 0.84 mmol . This mixture was heated at 82 C. under argon for 50 min cooled to room temperature quenched with 2 N HCl 20 mL and extracted with EtOAc 120 mL . The residue obtained after concentration of the extract at reduced temperature and the solid collected from HO layer were combined and crystallized MeOH to give 47 mg 71 of a mixture of E 3 2 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoic acid Compound 29 and E 3 2 3 1 4 4 dihydroxyadamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoic acid Compound 30 as a yellow powder. IR 3400 2933 2859 1709 1418 1209 cm H NMR CDCl CDOD 1.49 2.49 m 13H AdCH and AdCH 6.40 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.65 or 6.68 d J 7.9 Hz or 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.43 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.90 or 7.93 dd J 1.8 Hz 7.9 Hz or 1.8 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.12 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.68 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH . Compound 29 LC MS calcd CHNOm z 391. found 391. Compound 30 LC MS calcd CHNOm z 408. found 408.

The intermediate ethyl E 3 2 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate was prepared as follows.

The mixture of 4 bromophenol 3.11 g 17.98 mmol 5 hydroxy 2 adamantanone 2.49 g 14.98 mmol and MeSOH 7 mL was stirred with heating at 80 C. oil bath for 5 h. The resulting mixture was quenched with HO 40 mL and filtered. The precipitate was washed several times with HO 5 NaHCO and CHCland dried to give 3.76 g 79 of 5 5 bromo 2 hydroxyphenyl 2 adamantanone as a white solid mp 287 289 C. H NMR 8 DMSO d 1.82 2.45 m 13H AdCH and AdCH 6.71 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3 ArH 7.10 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4 ArH 7.16 dd J 2.4 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 6 ArH 9.78 s 1H OH .

To a solution of 5 5 bromo 2 hydroxyphenyl 2 adamantanone 4.57 g 14.20 mmol in acetone 42 mL was added benzyl bromide 2.67 g 15.6 mmol followed by KCO 2.65 g 19.2 mmol . The mixture was stirred at reflux for 25.7 h under argon. Acetone was removed and 2 N HCl 60 mL was added. The resultant mixture was extracted with EtOAc 250 mL and the organic layer was washed with brine and dried. After removal of solvent at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 14 to 20 EtOAc hexane to give 5.48 g 94 of 5 2 benzyloxy 5 bromophenyl 2 adamantanone as a white solid mp 163 165 C. H NMR DMSO d 1.79 2.42 m 13H AdCH and AdCH 5.12 s 2H CHCH 7.03 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3 ArH 7.21 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4 ArH 7.29 7.44 ppm m 6H 6 ArH CH .

The mixture of 5 2 benzyloxy 5 bromophenyl 2 adamantanone 5.47 g 13.30 mmol ethylene glycol 0.96 mL 17.30 mmol and p toluenesulfonic acid monohydrate 140 mg in benzene 55 mL was stirred at reflux temperature 110 C. oil bath using Dean Stark apparatus for 24.25 h cooled to room temperature and diluted with EtOAc 150 mL . The solution was washed 1 N NaOH and brine and dried. After removal of solvent at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 12 to 14 EtOAc hexane to give 5.77 g 95 of the ethyleneglycol ketal of 4 benzyloxy 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl phenyl bromide as a white solid mp 90 91 C. H NMR CDCl 1.54 2.35 m 13H AdCH and AdCH 3.91 m 4H CHCH 5.07 s 2H CHCH 6.78 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3 ArH 7.23 dd J 2.4 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 6 ArH 7.31 d J 2.4 Hz 1H 4 ArH 7.30 7.48 ppm m 5H CH .

To a solution of the ketal of 4 benzyloxy 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl phenyl bromide 5 2.00 g 4.39 mmol in THF 6.5 mL at 78 C. dry ice acetone bath under argon was added 1.6 M n BuLi 7.5 mmol in hexane 4.7 mL in one portion. The mixture was stirred at 78 C. for 15 min. Tri isopropyl borate 3.04 mL 13.20 mmol was added and the resulting solution was stirred at 78 C. for 20 min before being allowed to warm to room temperature with stirring overnight. The mixture was quenched with 3 N HCl 40 mL and then extracted with EtOAc 100 and 70 mL The combined organic extracts were washed with brine and dried. Solvents were removed at reduced pressure and the residue was washed benzene and hexane and dried to give 1.3 g 71 of the ethyleneglycol ketal of 4 benzyloxy 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl phenylboronic acid as a white solid mp 161 165 C. H NMR CDCl 1.61 2.49 m 13H AdCH and AdCH 3.93 m 4H CHCH 5.21 s 2H CHCH 7.05 d J 8.0 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.31 7.55 ppm m 5H CH 8.02 dd J 1.2 Hz 8.0 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.16 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 2 ArH .

To a solution of the ethyleneglycol ketal of 4 benzyloxy 3 1 4 oxodamantyl phenylboronic acid 202 mg 0.48 mmol and ethyl E 3 2 chloro 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 85 mg 0.40 mmol in dimethoxyethane 4 mL degassed was added tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 55 mg 0.05 mmol and degassed 2 M NaCO 0.8 mL . The reaction mixture was heated at reflux 90 C. oil bath for 20 h cooled to room temperature quenched with HO 25 mL and extracted with EtOAc 210 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 16 to 25 EtOAc hexane to give 148 mg 67 of the ketal of ethyl E 3 2 4 benzyloxy 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl phenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a cream solid mp 60 63 C. IR 2906 2860 1711 1434 1222 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.62 2.48 m 13H AdCH and AdCH 3.93 m 4H CHCH 4.30 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 5.21 s 2H CHCH 6.56 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 7.05 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.32 7.55 ppm m 5H CH 7.63 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.30 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.45 s 1H 2 ArH 8.86 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

A solution of the ketal of ethyl E 3 2 4 benzyloxy 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl phenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate 60 mg 0.11 mmol 1.0 M boron tribromide 0.43 mmol in CHCl 0.43 mL and CHCl 2.0 mL was stirred at 78 C. under argon for 2 h quenched with water 25 mL and extracted with EtOAc 90 mL . The extract was washed brine and dried. After solvent removal at reduced pressure the residue was purified on silica gel 16 to 33 EtOAc hexane to give 36 mg 88 of ethyl E 3 2 3 1 4 oxoadamantyl 4 hydroxyphenyl 5 pyrimidinyl 2 propenoate as a cream solid mp 231 234 C. IR 3312 2927 2858 1717 1443 1185 cm H NMR CDCl 1.36 t J 7.2 Hz 3H OCHCH 1.99 2.70 m 13H AdCH and AdCH 4.31 q J 7.2 Hz 2H OCHCH 6.28 s 1H OH 6.56 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 6.80 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 5 ArH 7.63 d J 15.9 Hz 1H CH CHCO 8.22 dd J 1.8 Hz 8.5 Hz 1H 6 ArH 8.38 d J 1.8 Hz 1H 2 ArH 8.87 ppm s 2H 4 6 ArH .

The following illustrate representative pharmaceutical dosage forms containing a compound of formula I Compound X for therapeutic or prophylactic use in humans.

All publications patents and patent documents are incorporated by reference herein as though individually incorporated by reference. The invention has been described with reference to various specific and preferred embodiments and techniques. However it should be understood that many variations and modifications may be made while remaining within the spirit and scope of the invention.

