---

title: Substituted 2-carboxamide cycloamino ureas
abstract: 

and salts thereof, wherein the substituents are as defined in the description, to compositions and use of the compounds in the treatment of diseases ameliorated by inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08293753&OS=08293753&RS=08293753
owner: Novartis AG
number: 08293753
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100628
---
The present invention relates to substituted 2 carboxamide cycloamino ureas as new phosphatidylinositol PI 3 kinase inhibitor compounds their pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs thereof and processes for their production. This invention also relates to compositions of these compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent and optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. This invention still further relates to methods of use of these compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent in the prophylaxis or treatment of a number of diseases in particular those mediated by one or more of abnormal activity of growth factors receptor tyrosine kinases protein serine heroine kinases G protein coupled receptors and phospholipid kinases and phosphatases.

Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases PI3Ks comprise a family of lipid kinases that catalyze the transfer of phosphate to the D 3 position of inositol lipids to produce phosphoinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphoinositol 3 4 diphosphate PIP and phosphoinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate PIP that in turn act as second messengers in signaling cascades by docking proteins containing pleckstrin homology FYVE Phox and other phospholipid binding domains into a variety of signaling complexes often at the plasma membrane Vanhaesebroeck et al. 70 535 2001 Katso et al. 17 615 2001 . Of the two Class 1 PI3Ks Class 1A PI3Ks are heterodimers composed of a catalytic p110 subunit isoforms constitutively associated with a regulatory subunit that can be p85 p55 p50 p85 or p55 . The Class 1B sub class has one family member a heterodimer composed of a catalytic p110 subunit associated with one of two regulatory subunits p101 or p84 Fruman et al. 67 481 1998 Suire et al. 15 566 2005 . The modular domains of the p85 55 50 subunits include Src Homology SH2 domains that bind phosphotyrosine residues in a specific sequence context on activated receptor and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases resulting in activation and localization of Class 1A PI3Ks. Class 1B PI3K is activated directly by G protein coupled receptors that bind a diverse repertoire of peptide and non peptide ligands Stephens et al. 89 105 1997 Katso et al. 17 615 675 2001 . Consequently the resultant phospholipid products of class I PI3K link upstream receptors with downstream cellular activities including proliferation survival chemotaxis cellular trafficking motility metabolism inflammatory and allergic responses transcription and translation Cantley et al. 64 281 1991 Escobedo and Williams 335 85 1988 Fantl et al. 69 413 1992 .

In many cases PIP2 and PIP3 recruit Akt the product of the human homologue of the viral oncogene v Akt to the plasma membrane where it acts as a nodal point for many intracellular signaling pathways important for growth and survival Fantl et al. 69 413 423 1992 Bader et al. 5 921 2005 Vivanco and Sawyer 2 489 2002 . Aberrant regulation of PI3K which often increases survival through Akt activation is one of the most prevalent events in human cancer and has been shown to occur at multiple levels. The tumor suppressor gene PTEN which dephosphorylates phosphoinositides at the 3 position of the inositol ring and in so doing antagonizes PI3K activity is functionally deleted in a variety of tumors. In other tumors the genes for the p110 isoform PIK3CA and for Akt are amplified and increased protein expression of their gene products has been demonstrated in several human cancers. Furthermore mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex have been described in human cancers. Finally somatic missense mutations in PIK3CA that activate downstream signaling pathways have been described at significant frequencies in a wide diversity of human cancers Kang et al. 102 802 2005 Samuels et al. 304 554 2004 Samuels et al. 7 561 573 2005 . These observations show that deregulation of phosphoinositol 3 kinase and the upstream and downstream components of this signaling pathway is one of the most common deregulations associated with human cancers and proliferative diseases Parsons et al. 436 792 2005 Hennessey et al. 4 988 1004 2005 .

In view of the above inhibitors of PI3Ks would be of particular value in the treatment of proliferative disease and other disorders. Selectivity towards the PI3K isoform is desirable and further desirable properties include improved pharmacokinetic properties and or chemical stability.

WO2004 096797 discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3 kinase and their use as pharmaceutical.

WO 2005 021519 also discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3 kinase and their use as pharmaceutical.

It has now been found that the substituted 2 carboxamide cycloamino ureas of the formula I given below have advantageous pharmacological properties and inhibit for example the PI3 kinases phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase . In particular preferably these compounds show selectivity for PI3K alpha versus beta and or delta and or gamma subtypes in the biochemical and or in the cellular assay. A further property which is preferably desirable for compounds of formula I includes improved stability for example improved chemical stability e.g. in solid form and or in buffer solution. Hence the compounds of formula I are suitable for example to be used in the treatment of diseases depending on the PI3 kinase in particular PI3K alpha such as those showing somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN especially proliferative diseases such as tumor diseases and leukaemias.

The invention may be more fully appreciated by reference to the following description including the following glossary of terms and the concluding examples. As used herein the terms including containing and comprising are used herein in their open non limiting sense.

Any formula given herein is intended to represent compounds having structures depicted by the structural formula as well as certain variations or forms. In particular compounds of any formula given herein may have asymmetric centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms such as different enantiomeric forms. If at least one asymmetrical carbon atom is present in a compound of the formula I such a compound may exist in optically active form or in the form of a mixture of optical isomers e.g. in the form of a racemic mixture. Thus an asymmetric carbon atom may be present in the R S or R S configuration preferably in the R or S configuration. All optical isomers and their mixtures including the racemic mixtures are part of the present invention. Thus any given formula given herein is intended to represent a racemate one or more enantiomeric forms one or more diastereomeric forms one or more atropisomeric forms and mixtures thereof. Furthermore certain structures may exist as geometric isomers e.g. cis and trans isomers as tautomers or as atropisomers. For example substituents at a double bond or a ring may be present in cis Z or trans E form. The compounds of the invention may thus be present as mixtures of isomers or preferably as pure isomers preferably as enantiomer pure diastereomers or pure enantiomers.

Any formula given herein is intended to represent hydrates solvates and polymorphs of such compounds and mixtures thereof.

Any formula given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N P P F S Cl I respectively. Various isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H C and C are incorporated. Such isotopically labeled compounds are useful in metabolic studies preferably with C reaction kinetic studies with for example H or H detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. In particular an F or labeled compound may be particularly preferred for PET or SPECT studies. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent in the compound of the formula I . The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by the isotopic enrichment factor. The term isotopic enrichment factor as used herein means the ratio between the isotopic abundance and the natural abundance of a specified isotope. If a substituent in a compound of this invention is denoted deuterium such compound has an isotopic enrichment factor for each designated deuterium atom of at least 3500 52.5 deuterium incorporation at each designated deuterium atom at least 4000 60 deuterium incorporation at least 4500 67.5 deuterium incorporation at least 5000 75 deuterium incorporation at least 5500 82.5 deuterium incorporation at least 6000 90 deuterium incorporation at least 6333.3 95 deuterium incorporation at least 6466.7 97 deuterium incorporation at least 6600 99 deuterium incorporation or at least 6633.3 99.5 deuterium incorporation . In the compounds of this invention any atom not specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. Unless otherwise stated when a position is designated specifically as H or hydrogen the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition. Accordingly in the compounds of this invention any atom specifically designated as a deuterium D is meant to represent deuterium for example in the ranges given above.

When referring to any formula given herein the selection of a particular moiety from a list of possible species for a specified variable is not intended to define the moiety for the variable appearing elsewhere. In other words where a variable appears more than once the choice of the species from a specified list is independent of the choice of the species for the same variable elsewhere in the formula where one or more up to all more general expressions in embodiments characterized as preferred above or below can be replaced with a more specific definition thus leading to a more preferred embodiment of the invention respectively .

Where the plural form e.g. compounds salts pharmaceutical preparations diseases and the like is used this includes the singular e.g. a single compound a single salt a single pharmaceutical preparation a single disease and the like . A compound does not exclude that e.g. in a pharmaceutical formulation more than one compound of the formula I or a salt thereof is present.

Salts are preferably the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of formula I if they are carrying salt forming groups. Acids bases required to form the salts are generally known in the field.

Halogen or halo denotes fluorine bromine chlorine or iodine in particular fluorine chlorine. Halogen substituted groups and moieties such as alkyl substituted by halogen halogenalkyl can be mono poly or per halogenated.

Hetero atoms are atoms other than carbon and hydrogen preferably nitrogen N oxygen O or sulfur S in particular nitrogen.

 Alkyl refers to a straight chain or branched chain alkyl group and includes Calkyl and Calkyl where stated. Such alkyl groups include for example methyl ethyl n or iso propyl n iso sec or tert butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl n octyl with particular preference given to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl and iso butyl. Alkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted. Exemplary substituents include but are not limited to hydroxy alkoxy halogen especially fluoro amino mono or di alkyl substituted amino acetylamino and morpholinyl. An example of a substituted alkyl is trifluoromethyl. Cycloalkyl may also be a substituent to alkyl. An example of such a case is the moiety alkyl cycloalkyl such as alkyl cyclopropyl or alkyl cyclobutyl e.g. methyl cyclopropyl or methyl cyclobutyl. A more specific example of an alkyl cycloalkyl moiety includes geminal type of substitution pattern e.g. 1 alkyl cycloalkyl such as 1 methyl cyclopropyl. Another example of cycloalkyl as a substituent to alkyl is alkandiyl cycloalkyl such as alkandiyl cyclopropyl e.g. CH cyclopropyl. C C alkyl is alkyl with from and including 1 up to and including 8 carbon atoms preferably from and including 1 up to and including 4 carbon atoms C C alkyl and is linear or branched preferably lower alkyl is butyl such as n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl propyl such as n propyl or isopropyl ethyl or preferably methyl.

Each alkyl part of other groups like alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkoxycarbonyl alkoxy carbonylalkyl alkylsulfonyl alkylsulfoxyl alkylamino halogenalkyl shall have the same meaning as described in the above mentioned definition of alkyl .

 C Cycloalkyl refers to a saturated or partially saturated monocyclic fused polycyclic or Spiro polycyclic carbocycle having from 3 to 8 ring atoms per carbocycle. Illustrative examples of cycloalkyl groups include the following moieties cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl. Cycloalkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted exemplary substituents are provided in the definition for alkyl.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclic radical that is saturated or partially saturated and is preferably a monocyclic or in a broader aspect of the invention bicyclic tricyclic or spirocyclic ring and has 3 to 24 more preferably 4 to 16 most preferably 5 to 10 and most preferably 5 or 6 ring atoms wherein one or more preferably one to four especially one or two carbon ring atoms are replaced by a heteroatom the bonding ring preferably having 4 to 12 especially 5 to 7 ring atoms. The heterocyclic radical heterocycyl may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more especially 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl or the substituents defined above for substituted alkyl and or from one or more of the following substituents oxo O thiocarbonyl S imino NH imino lower alkyl. Further heterocyclyl is especially a heterocyclyl radical selected from the group consisting of oxiranyl aziridinyl 1 2 oxathiolanyl tetrahydrofuryl tetrahydropyranyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl piperazinyl morpholinyl thiomorpholinyl S oxo or S S dioxo thiomorpholinyl azepanyl diazepanyl especially 1 4 diazepanyl tetrahydroquinolyl tetrahydroisoquinolyl decahydroquinolyl octahydroisoquinolyl isochromanyl chromanyl and 2 3 dihydro benzo 1 4 dioxin 6 yl each of these radicals being unsubstituted or substituted by one or more preferably up to three substituents selected from those mentioned above and or from one or more of the following substituents oxo O thiocarbonyl S imino NH imino lower alkyl.

 Heteroaryl refers to a heterocyclic radical that is unsaturated in particular maximally unsaturated eg. carrying the highest possible number of conjugated double bonds in the ring s and is preferably a monocyclic or in a broader aspect of the invention bicyclic or tricyclic ring and has 3 to 24 more preferably 4 to 16 most preferably 5 to 10 and most preferably 5 or 6 ring atoms wherein one or more preferably one to four especially one or two ring atoms are a heteroatom the bonding ring i.e. the ring which is bonded to the rest of the molecule preferably having 4 to 12 especially 5 to 7 ring atoms. The heteroaryl radical may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more especially 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl or the substituents defined above for substituted alkyl and or from one or more of the following substituents oxo O thiocarbonyl S imino NH imino lower alkyl and for nitrogen containing heteroaryls including N oxides thereof. Further heteroaryl is especially a heteroaryl radical selected from the group consisting of azirinyl thienyl thiophenyl furanyl pyranyl thiopyranyl thian threnyl isobenzofuranyl benzofuranyl chromenyl 2H pyrrolyl pyrrolyl imidazolyl imidazolidinyl benzimidazolyl pyrazolyl pyrazinyl pyrazolidinyl thiazolyl isothiazolyl dithiazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyridazinyl indolizinyl isoindolyl 3H indolyl indolyl benzimidazolyl cumaryl indazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl purinyl 4H quinolizinyl isoquinolyl quinolyl dibenzofuranyl benzothiophenyl dibenzothiophenyl phthalazinyl naphthyridinyl quinoxalyl quinazolinyl quinazolinyl cinnolinyl pteridinyl carbazolyl beta carbolinyl phenanthridinyl acridinyl perimidinyl phenanthrolinyl furazanyl phenazinyl phenothiazinyl phenoxazinyl chromenyl and benzo 1 3 dioxol 5 yl each of these radicals being un substituted or substituted by one or more preferably up to three substituents selected from those mentioned above aryl and or from one or more of the following substituents oxo O thiocarbonyl S imino NH imino lower alkyl and for nitrogen containing heteroaryls including N oxides thereof.

 Treatment includes prophylactic preventive and therapeutic treatment as well as the delay of progression of a disease or disorder.

 PI3 kinase mediated diseases especially PI3K alpha mediated diseases are especially such disorders that respond in a beneficial way e.g. amelioration of one or more symptoms delay of the onset of a disease up to temporary or complete cure from a disease to the inhibition of a PI3 kinase especially inhibition of PI3Kalpha where the diseases to be treated may include those showing somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN . Diseases to be treated include especially proliferative diseases such as tumor diseases including solid tumors leukaemias glioblastoma breast cancer and prostate cancer may be mentioned .

 Salts which what is meant by or salts thereof or or a salt thereof can be present alone or in mixture with free compound of the formula I and are preferably pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salt forming groups in a compound of formula I are groups or radicals having basic or acidic properties. Compounds having at least one basic group or at least one basic radical e.g. amino a secondary amino group not forming a peptide bond or a pyridyl radical may form acid addition salts e.g. with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid or a phosphoric acid or with suitable organic carboxylic or sulfonic acids e.g. aliphatic mono or di carboxylic acids such as trifluoroacetic acid acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid succinic acid maleic acid fumaric acid hydroxymaleic acid malic acid tartaric acid citric acid or oxalic acid or amino acids such as arginine or lysine aromatic carboxylic acids such as benzoic acid 2 phenoxy benzoic acid 2 acetoxy benzoic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid aromatic aliphatic carboxylic acids such as mandelic acid or cinnamic acid heteroaromatic carboxylic acids such as nicotinic acid or isonicotinic acid aliphatic sulfonic acids such as methane ethane or 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid or aromatic sulfonic acids e.g. benzene p toluene or naphthalene 2 sulfonic acid. When several basic groups are present mono or poly acid addition salts may be formed. Compounds of formula I having acidic groups a carboxy group or a phenolic hydroxy group may form metal or ammonium salts such as alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salts e.g. sodium potassium magnesium or calcium salts or ammonium salts with ammonia or suitable organic amines such as tertiary monoamines e.g. triethylamine or tri 2 hydroxyethyl amine or heterocyclic bases e.g. N ethyl piperidine or N N dimethylpiperazine. Mixtures of salts are possible.

For isolation or purification purposes it is also possible to use pharmaceutically unacceptable salts for example picrates or perchlorates. For therapeutic use only pharmaceutically acceptable salts or free compounds are employed where applicable in the form of pharmaceutical preparations and these are therefore preferred. In view of the close relationship between the novel compounds in free form and those in the form of their salts including those salts that can be used as intermediates for example in the purification or identcation of the novel compounds any reference to the free compounds hereinbefore and hereinafter is to be understood as referring also to the corresponding salts as appropriate and expedient.

Compounds of the present invention may also form solvates and hydrates and as such any reference to a compound of formula I is therefore to be understood as referring also to the corresponding solvate and or hydrate of the compound of formula I as appropriate and expedient.

The present invention also relates to pro drugs of a compound of formula I that convert in vivo to the compound of formula I as such. Any reference to a compound of formula I is therefore to be understood as referring also to the corresponding pro drugs of the compound of formula I as appropriate and expedient.

Combination refers to either a fixed combination in one dosage unit form or a kit of parts for the combined administration where a compound of the formula I and a combination partner e.g. an other drug as explained below also referred to as therapeutic agent or co agent may be administered independently at the same time or separately within time intervals especially where these time intervals allow that the combination partners show a cooperative e.g. synergistic effect. The terms co administration or combined administration or the like as utilized herein are meant to encompass administration of the selected combination partner to a single subject in need thereof e.g. a patient and are intended to include treatment regimens in which the agents are not necessarily administered by the same route of administration or at the same time. The term pharmaceutical combination as used herein means a product that results from the mixing or combining of more than one active ingredient and includes both fixed and non fixed combinations of the active ingredients. The term fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of formula I and a combination partner are both administered to a patient simultaneously in the form of a single entity or dosage. The term non fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of formula I and a combination partner are both administered to a patient as separate entities either simultaneously concurrently or sequentially with no specific time limits wherein such administration provides therapeutically effective levels of the two compounds in the body of the patient. The latter also applies to cocktail therapy e.g. the administration of three or more active ingredients.

In preferred embodiments which are preferred independently collectively or in any combination or sub combination the invention relates to a compound of the formula I in free base form or in salt form wherein the substituents are as defined herein.

As shown in formula I the alpha amide substituent is at the 2 position on the pyrrolidine ring and the stereochemistry is as drawn and the Rsubstituent is at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring and each substituent has the defined stereochemistry which is cis relative to each other.

If present i.e. m 1 and or n 1 the Ror Rgroup may be attached at the 2 and or 3 and or 4 and or 5 position of the pyrrolidine ring of formula I. Most preferably the Ror Rgroup is attached at the 3 position of the pyrrolidine ring i.e. on the same carbon which is simultaneously substituted by the Rgroup.

As noted above compounds according to formula I are provided wherein Rand Rmay form together with the same or different carbon atom to which they are attached C C cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl and wherein the compound 1R 2S 5S 3 aza bicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 2 3 dicarboxylic acid 2 amide 3 5 2 tert butyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide is excluded.

Compounds according to formula I include those wherein the substitutents are defined as for a compound of formula I and

In a further alternative compounds according to formula I include those wherein the substitutents are defined as for a compound of formula I and

Thus when Rand Rform a C C cycloalkyl preferred or heterocyclyl it is preferred that the Rgroup is attached at the 3 position of the pyrrolidine ring i.e. on the same carbon which is simultaneously substituted by the Rgroup.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein m and n are both 0 that is wherein the pyrrolidine ring is substituted only by the amide at position 2 and the Rgroup at position 3 i.e. compounds of formula IA 

A further embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein m is 0 or 1 and n is 1. In this embodiment it is preferred that Ris bonded at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring i.e. to provide compounds of formula IB 

In compounds according to formula IB when m is 1 i.e. Ris present the Rgroup is preferably attached at the 4 or 5 position preferably the 4 position of the pyrrolidine ring thus providing compounds of formula IB 

A further embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein m is 0 or 1 and n is 1 wherein Ris bonded at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring and together with Rforms a C C cycloalkyl or heterocyclyl preferably a C C cycloalkyl in particular cyclopropyl i.e. to provide compounds of formula IC 

In compounds according to formula IC when m is 1 i.e. Ris present the Rgroup is preferably attached at the 4 or 5 position preferably the 4 position of the pyrrolidine ring.

The invention further relates to pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC .

The invention further relates to pharmaceutically acceptable metabolites of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC .

The invention relates especially to the compounds of the formula I IA IB IB and or IC given in the Examples as well as the methods of manufacture described herein.

The present invention also relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC . In principle all known processes which convert two different amines into a corresponding urea derivative are suitable and may be applied by using the respective starting material.

Thus the invention in particular relates to a process which comprises reacting a compound of formula II

The process may be performed according to methods known in the art or as disclosed below in the Examples. For example a compound of formula II may be reacted with a compound of formula IIIA or IIIB in a solvent e.g. dimethylformamide in the presence of a base e.g. an organic amine e.g. triethylamine.

Where temperatures are given hereinbefore or hereinafter about has to be added as minor deviations from the numeric values given e.g. variations of 10 are typically tolerable.

All reactions may take place in the presence of one or more diluents and or solvents. The starting materials may be used in equimolar amounts alternatively a compound may be used in excess e.g. to function as a solvent or to shift equilibrium or to generally accelerate reaction rates.

Reaction aids such as acids bases or catalysts may be added in suitable amounts as known in the field required by a reaction and in line with generally known procedures.

If one or more other functional groups for example carboxy hydroxy amino sulfhydryl or the like are or need to be protected in a starting material as described herein or any other precursor because they should not take part in the reaction or disturb the reaction these are such groups as are usually used in the synthesis of peptide compounds and also of cephalosporins and penicillins as well as nucleic acid derivatives and sugars. Protecting groups are such groups that are no longer present in the final compounds once they are removed while groups that remain as substituents are not protecting groups in the sense used here which are groups that are added at a starting material or intermediate stage and removed to obtain a final compound. Also in the case of conversions of a compound of the formula I IA IB IB and or IC into a different compound of the formula I IA IB IB and or IC protecting groups may be introduced and removed if useful or required. The protecting groups may already be present in precursors and should protect the functional groups concerned against unwanted secondary reactions such as acylations etherifications esterifications oxidations solvolysis and similar reactions. It is a characteristic of protecting groups that they lend themselves readily i.e. without undesired secondary reactions to removal typically by acetolysis protonolysis solvolysis reduction photolysis or also by enzyme activity for example under conditions analogous to physiological conditions and that they are not present in the end products. The specialist knows or can easily establish which protecting groups are suitable with the reactions mentioned above and below.

The protection of such functional groups by such protecting groups the protecting groups themselves and their removal reactions are described for example in standard reference works such as J. F. W. McOmie Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry Plenum Press London and New York 1973 in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Third edition Wiley New York 1999 in The Peptides Volume 3 editors E. Gross and J. Meienhofer Academic Press London and New York 1981 in Methoden der organischen Chemie Methods of organic chemistry Houben Weyl 4th edition Volume 15 l Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974 in H. D. Jakubke and H. Jescheit Aminos uren Peptide Proteine Amino acids peptides proteins Verlag Chemie Weinheim Deerfield Beach and Basel 1982 and in Jochen Lehmann Chemie der Kohlenhydrate Monosaccharide and Derivate Chemistry of carbohydrates monosaccharides and derivatives Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974.

A compound of the formula I IA IB IB and or IC may be converted into a different compound of the formula I IA IB IB and or IC .

In a compound of the formula I IA IB IB and or IC wherein a substituent carries an amino or amino C Calkyl substituent the amino can be converted into acylamino e.g. C Calkanoylamino by reaction with a corresponding C C alkanoylhalogenide e.g. a corresponding chloride in the presence of a tertiary nitrogen base such as triethylamine or pyridine in the absence or presence of an appropriate solvent such a methylene chloride for example at temperatures in the range from 20 to 50 C. e.g. at about room temperature.

Salts of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC with a salt forming group may be prepared in a manner known per se. Acid addition salts of compounds of formula I IA IB IB and or IC may thus be obtained by treatment with an acid or with a suitable anion exchange reagent. A salt with two acid molecules for example a dihalogenide of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC may also be converted into a salt with one acid molecule per compound for example a monohalogenide this may be done by heating to a melt or for example by heating as a solid under a high vacuum at elevated temperature for example from 130 to 170 C. one molecule of the acid being expelled per molecule of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC . Salts can usually be converted to free compounds e.g. by treating with suitable basic compounds for example with alkali metal carbonates alkali metal hydrogencarbonates or alkali metal hydroxides typically potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide.

Stereoisomeric mixtures e.g. mixtures of diastereomers can be separated into their corresponding isomers in a manner known per se by means of suitable separation methods. Diastereomeric mixtures for example may be separated into their individual diastereomers by means of fractionated crystallization chromatography solvent distribution and similar procedures. This separation may take place either at the level of a starting compound or in a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC itself. Enantiomers may be separated through the formation of diastereomeric salts for example by salt formation with an enantiomer pure chiral acid or by means of chromatography for example by HPLC using chromatographic substrates with chiral ligands.

It should be emphasized that reactions analogous to the conversions mentioned herein may also take place at the level of appropriate intermediates and are thus useful in the preparation of corresponding starting materials .

The starting materials of the formulae II and III as well as other starting materials mentioned herein e.g. below can be prepared according to or in analogy to methods that are known in the art are known in the art and or are commercially available. Insofar as the production of the starting materials is not particularly described the compounds are either known or may be prepared analogously to methods known in the art e.g. in WO 05 021519 or WO04 096797 or as disclosed hereinafter. Novel starting materials as well as processes for the preparation thereof are likewise an embodiment of the present invention. In the preferred embodiments such starting materials are used and the reaction chosen are selected so as to enable the preferred compounds to be obtained.

In the starting materials including intermediates which may also be used and or obtained as salts where appropriate and expedient the substituents are preferably as defined for a compound of the formula I IA IB IB and or IC .

The present invention also relates to use of the compounds of formula I IA IB IB and or IC as disclosed herein as pharmaceuticals. The present invention includes in one embodiment compositions comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC e.g. for human or veterinary use e.g. where inhibition of PI3K is indicated.

In one embodiment the invention relates to the treatment of cellular proliferative diseases such as tumor benign or malignant and or cancerous cell growth e.g. mediated by PI3K. Diseases may include those showing somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN. In particular the compounds may be useful in the treatment of human or animal e.g. murine cancers including for example sarcoma lung bronchus prostate breast including sporadic breast cancers and sufferers of Cowden disease pancreas gastrointestinal cancer colon rectum colon carcinoma colorectal adenoma thyroid liver intrahepatic bile duct hepatocellular adrenal gland stomach gastric glioma glioblastoma endometrial melanoma kidney renal pelvis urinary bladder uterine corpus uterine cervix vagina ovary multiple myeloma esophagus a leukaemia acute myelogenous leukemia chronic myelogenous leukemia lymphocytic leukemia myeloid leukemia brain oral cavity and pharynx larynx small intestine non Hodgkin lymphoma melanoma villous colon adenoma a neoplasia a neoplasia of epithelial character lymphomas a mammary carcinoma basal cell carcinoma squamous cell carcinoma actinic keratosis tumor diseases including solid tumors a tumor of the neck or head polycythemia vera essential thrombocythemia and myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia.

In other embodiments the condition or disorder e.g. PI3K mediated is selected from the group consisting of an epidermal hyperproliferation prostate hyperplasia a neoplasia a neoplasia of epithelial character Cowden syndrome Lhermitte Dodos disease or Bannayan Zonana syndrome asthma COPD ARDS Loffler s syndrome eosinophilic pneumonia parasitic in particular metazoan infestation including tropical eosinophilia bronchopulmonary aspergillosis polyarteritis nodosa including Churg Strauss syndrome eosinophilic granuloma eosinophil related disorders affecting the airways occasioned by drug reaction psoriasis contact dermatitis atopic dermatitis alopecia areata erythema multiforme dermatitis herpetiformis scleroderma vitiligo hypersensitivity angiitis urticaria bullous pemphigoid lupus erythematosus pemphisus epidermolysis bullosa acquisita autoimmune haematogical disorders e.g. haemolytic anaemia aplastic anaemia pure red cell anaemia and idiopathic thrombocytopenia systemic lupus erythematosus polychondritis scleroderma Wegener granulomatosis dermatomyositis chronic active hepatitis myasthenia gravis Steven Johnson syndrome idiopathic sprue autoimmune inflammatory bowel disease e.g. ulcerative colitis and Crohn s disease endocrine opthalmopathy Grave s disease sarcoidosis alveolitis chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis multiple sclerosis primary biliary cirrhosis uveitis anterior and posterior interstitial lung fibrosis psoriatic arthritis glomerulonephritis cardiovascular diseases atherosclerosis hypertension deep venous thrombosis stroke myocardial infarction unstable angina thromboembolism pulmonary embolism thrombolytic diseases acute arterial ischemia peripheral thrombotic occlusions and coronary artery disease reperfusion injuries retinopathy such as diabetic retinopathy or hyperbaric oxygen induced retinopathy and conditions characterized by elevated intraocular pressure or secretion of ocular aqueous humor such as glaucoma.

For the above uses the required dosage will of course vary depending on the mode of administration the particular condition to be treated and the effect desired. In general satisfactory results are indicated to be obtained systemically at daily dosages of from about 0.03 to 10.0 mg kg per body weight. An indicated daily dosage in the larger mammal e.g. humans is in the range from about 0.5 mg to about 1 g conveniently administered for example in divided doses up to four times a day or in retard form. Suitable unit dosage forms for oral administration comprise from ca. 0.1 to 500 mg active ingredient.

The compounds of formula I IA IB IB and or IC may be administered by any conventional route in particular enterally e.g. orally e.g. in the form of tablets or capsules or parenterally e.g. in the form of injectable solutions or suspensions topically e.g. in the form of lotions gels ointments or creams by inhalation intranasally or in a suppository form.

The compounds of formula I IA IB IB and or IC may be administered in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form e.g. as indicated above. Such salts may be prepared in conventional manner and exhibit the same order of activity as the free compounds.

PI3K serves as a second messenger node that integrates parallel signaling pathways evidence is emerging that the combination of a PI3K inhibitor with inhibitors of other pathways will be useful in treating cancer and proliferative diseases in humans. Approximately 20 30 of human breast cancers overexpress Her 2 neu ErbB2 the target for the drug trastuzumab. Although trastuzumab has demonstrated durable responses in some patients expressing Her2 neu ErbB2 only a subset of these patients respond. Recent work has indicated that this limited response rate can be substantially improved by the combination of trastuzumab with inhibitors of PI3K or the PI3K AKT pathway Chan et al. Breast Can. Res. Treat. 91 187 2005 Woods Ignatoski et al. Brit. J. Cancer 82 666 2000 Nagata et al. Cancer Cell 6 117 2004 .

A variety of human malignancies express activating mutations or increased levels of Her1 EGFR and a number of antibody and small molecule inhibitors have been developed against this receptor tyrosine kinase including tarceva gefitinib and erbitux. However while EGFR inhibitors demonstrate anti tumor activity in certain human tumors e.g. NSCLC they fail to increase overall patient survival in all patients with EGFR expressing tumors. This may be rationalized by the fact that many downstream targets of Her1 EGFR are mutated or deregulated at high frequencies in a variety of malignancies including the PI3K Akt pathway. For example gefitinib inhibits the growth of an adenocarcinoma cell line in in vitro assays. Nonetheless sub clones of these cell lines can be selected that are resistant to gefitinib that demonstrate increased activation of the PI3 Akt pathway. Down regulation or inhibition of this pathway renders the resistant sub clones sensitive to gefitinib Kokubo et al. Brit. J. Cancer 92 1711 2005 . Furthermore in an in vitro model of breast cancer with a cell line that harbors a PTEN mutation and over expresses EGFR inhibition of both the PI3K Akt pathway and EGFR produced a synergistic effect She et al. Cancer Cell 8 287 297 2005 . These results indicate that the combination of gefitinib and PI3K Akt pathway inhibitors would be an attractive therapeutic strategy in cancer.

The combination of AEE778 an inhibitor of Her 2 neu ErbB2 VEGFR and EGFR and RAD001 an inhibitor of mTOR a downstream target of Akt produced greater combined efficacy that either agent alone in a glioblastoma xenograft model Goudar et al. Mol. Cancer. Ther. 4 101 112 2005 .

Anti estrogens such as tamoxifen inhibit breast cancer growth through induction of cell cycle arrest that requires the action of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip. Recently it has been shown that activation of the Ras Raf MAP Kinase pathway alters the phosphorylation status of p27Kip such that its inhibitory activity in arresting the cell cycle is attenuated thereby contributing to anti estrogen resistance Donovan et al J. Biol. Chem. 276 40888 2001 . As reported by Donovan et al. inhibition of MAPK signaling through treatment with MEK inhibitor reversed the aberrant phosphorylation status of p27 in hormone refractory breast cancer cell lines and in so doing restored hormone sensitivity. Similarly phosphorylation of p27Kip by Akt also abrogates its role to arrest the cell cycle Viglietto et al. Nat. Med. 8 1145 2002 .

Accordingly the present invention provides in a further aspect compounds of formulae I IA IB IB and or IC for use in the treatment of hormone dependent cancers such as breast and prostate cancers. By this use it is aimed to reverse hormone resistance commonly seen in these cancers with conventional anticancer agents.

In hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML chromosomal translocation is responsible for the constitutively activated BCR Abl tyrosine kinase. The afflicted patients are responsive to imatinib a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor as a result of inhibition of Abl kinase activity. However many patients with advanced stage disease respond to imatinib initially but then relapse later due to resistance conferring mutations in the Abl kinase domain. In vitro studies have demonstrated that BCR Abl employs the Ras Raf kinase pathway to elicit its effects. In addition inhibiting more than one kinase in the same pathway provides additional protection against resistance conferring mutations.

Accordingly in another aspect the present invention provides the compounds of formulae I IA IB IB and or IC for use in combination with at least one additional agent selected from the group of kinase inhibitors such as Gleevec in the treatment of hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML . By this use it is aimed to reverse or prevent resistance to said at least one additional agent.

Because activation of the PI3K Akt pathway drives cell survival inhibition of the pathway in combination with therapies that drive apoptosis in cancer cells including radiotherapy and chemotherapy will result in improved responses Ghobrial et al. CA Cancer J. Clin 55 178 194 2005 . As an example combination of PI3 kinase inhibitor with carboplatin demonstrated synergistic effects in both in vitro proliferation and apoptosis assays as well as in in vivo tumor efficacy in a xenograft model of ovarian cancer Westfall and Skinner Mol. Cancer. Ther. 4 1764 1771 2005 .

In addition to cancer and proliferative diseases there is accumulating evidence that inhibitors of Class 1A and 1B PI3 kinases would be therapeutically useful in others disease areas. The inhibition of p110 the PI3K isoform product of the PIK3CB gene has been shown to be involved in shear induced platelet activation Jackson et al. Nature Medicine 11 507 514 2005 . Thus a PI3K inhibitor that inhibits p110 would be useful as a single agent or in combination in anti thrombotic therapy. The isoform p110 the product of the PIK3CD gene is important in B cell function and differentiation Clayton et al. J. Exp. Med. 196 753 763 2002 T cell dependent and independent antigen responses Jou et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 22 8580 8590 2002 and mast cell differentiation Ali et al. Nature 431 1007 1011 2004 . Thus it is expected that p110 inhibitors would be useful in the treatment of B cell driven autoimmune diseases and asthma. Finally the inhibition of p110 the isoform product of the PI3KCG gene results in reduced T but not B cell response Reif et al. J. Immunol. 173 2236 2240 2004 and its inhibition demonstrates efficacy in animal models of autoimmune diseases Camps et al. Nature Medicine 11 936 943 2005 Barber et al. Nature Medicine 11 933 935 2005 .

The invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC together with a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient suitable for administration to a human or animal subject either alone or together with another therapeutic agent for example another anticancer agent.

The invention further provides methods of treating human or animal subjects suffering from a cellular proliferative disease such as cancer. The invention thus provides methods of treating a human or animal subject in need of such treatment comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC either alone or in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents e.g. other anticancer agents. In particular compositions will either be formulated together as a combination therapeutic or administered separately. Suitable anticancer agents for use with a compound of formula I include but are not limited to one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of kinase inhibitors anti estrogens anti androgens other inhibitors cancer chemotherapeutic drugs alkylating agents chelating agents biological response modifiers cancer vaccines agents for antisense therapy as set forth below 

A compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC can also be combined in a pharmaceutical composition with bronchiodilatory or antihistamine drugs substances. Such bronchiodilatory drugs include anticholinergic or antimuscarinic agents in particular glycopyrrolate ipratropium bromide oxitropium bromide and tiotropium bromide OrM3 aclidinium CHF5407 GSK233705 and 2 adrenoreceptor agonists such as salbutamol terbutaline salmeterol carmoterol milveterol and especially indacaterol and formoterol. Co therapeutic antihistamine drug substances include cetirizine hydrochloride clemastine fumarate promethazine loratadine desloratadine diphenhydramine and fexofenadine hydrochloride.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of a thrombolytic disease heart disease stroke etc. Such compounds include aspirin a streptokinase a tissue plasminogen activator a urokinase a anticoagulant antiplatelet drugs e.g PLAVIX clopidogrel bisulfate a statin e.g. LIPITOR or Atorvastatin calcium ZOCOR Simvastatin CRESTOR Rosuvastatin etc. a Beta blacker e.g. Atenolol NORVASC amlodipine besylate and an ACE inhibitor e.g. lisinopril .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of antihypertension. Such compounds include ACE inhibitors lipid lowering agents such as statins LIPITOR Atorvastatin calcium calcium channel blockers such as NORVASC amlodipine besylate .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of fibrates beta blockers NEPI inhibitors Angiotensin 2 receptor antagonists and platelet aggregation inhibitors.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and a compound suitable for the treatment of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of TNF inhibitors such as anti TNF monoclonal antibodies such as REMICADE CDP 870 and D2E7 HUMIRA and TNF receptor immunoglobulin fusion molecules such as ENBREL IL 1 inhibitors receptor antagonists or soluble IL 1R e.g. KINERET or ICE inhibitors nonsterodial anti inflammatory agents NSAIDS piroxicam diclofenac naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen ibuprofen fenamates mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones phenylbutazone aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as CELEBREX celecoxib PREXIGE lumiracoxib metalloprotease inhibitors preferably MMP 13 selective inhibitors p2 7 inhibitors 2 inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin low dose methotrexate leflunomide hydroxyxchloroquine d penicillamine auranofin or parenteral or oral gold.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and a compound suitable for the treatment of osteoarthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of standard non steroidal anti inflammatory agents hereinafter NSAID s such as piroxicam diclofenac propionic acids such as naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen and ibuprofen fenamates such as mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones such as phenylbutazone salicylates such as aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as celecoxib valdecoxib lumiracoxib and etoricoxib analgesics and intraarticular therapies such as corticosteroids and hyaluronic acids such as hyalgan and synvisc.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and an antiviral agent and or an antisepsis compound. Such antiviral agent may be selected from the group consisting of Viracept AZT acyclovir and famciclovir. Such antisepsis compound may be selected from the group consisting of Valant.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and one or more agents selected from the group consisting of CNS agents such as antidepressants sertraline anti Parkinsonian drugs such as deprenyl L dopa Requip Mirapex MAOB inhibitors such as selegine and rasagiline comP inhibitors such as Tasmar A 2 inhibitors dopamine reuptake inhibitors NMDA antagonists Nicotine agonists Dopamine agonists and inhibitors of neuronal nitric oxide synthase .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and one or more anti Alzheimer s drugs. Such anti Alzheimer Drug may be selected from the group consisting of donepezil tacrine 2 inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin COX 2 inhibitors propentofylline or metrifonate.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and anosteoporosis agents and or an immunosuppressant agent. Such osteoporosis agents ma be selected from the group consisting of EVISTA raloxifene hydrochloride droloxifene lasofoxifene or fosomax. Such immunosuppressant agents may be selected from the group consisting of FK 506 and rapamycin.

In another aspect of the preferred embodiments kits that include one or more compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and a combination partner as disclosed herein are provided. Representative kits include a PI3K inhibitor compound e.g. a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and a package insert or other labeling including directions for treating a cellular proliferative disease by administering a PI3K inhibitory amount of the compound s .

In general the compounds of formula I IA IB IB and or IC will be administered in a therapeutically effective amount by any of the accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar utilities. The actual amount of the compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC i.e. the active ingredient will depend upon numerous factors such as the severity of the disease to be treated the age and relative health of the subject the potency of the compound used the route and form of administration and other factors. The drug can be administered more than once a day preferably once or twice a day. All of these factors are within the skill of the attending clinician. Therapeutically effective amounts of compounds of formulas I may range from about 0.05 to about 50 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day preferably about 0.1 25 mg kg day more preferably from about 0.5 to 10 mg kg day. Thus for administration to a 70 kg person the dosage range would most preferably be about 35 70 mg per day.

In general compounds of formula I IA IB IB and or IC will be administered as pharmaceutical compositions by any one of the following routes oral systemic e.g. transdermal intranasal or by suppository or parenteral e.g. intramuscular intravenous or subcutaneous administration. The preferred manner of administration is oral using a convenient daily dosage regimen that can be adjusted according to the degree of affliction. Compositions can take the form of tablets pills capsules semisolids powders sustained release formulations solutions suspensions elixirs aerosols or any other appropriate compositions. Another preferred manner for administering compounds of the formula I is inhalation. This is an effective method for delivering a therapeutic agent directly to the respiratory tract.

The choice of formulation depends on various factors such as the mode of drug administration and bioavailability of the drug substance. For delivery via inhalation the compound can be formulated as liquid solution suspensions aerosol propellants or dry powder and loaded into a suitable dispenser for administration. There are several types of pharmaceutical inhalation devices nebulizer inhalers metered dose inhalers MDI and dry powder inhalers DPI . Nebulizer devices produce a stream of high velocity air that causes the therapeutic agents which are formulated in a liquid form to spray as a mist that is carried into the patient s respiratory tract. MDI s typically are formulation packaged with a compressed gas. Upon actuation the device discharges a measured amount of therapeutic agent by compressed gas thus affording a reliable method of administering a set amount of agent. DPI dispenses therapeutic agents in the form of a free flowing powder that can be dispersed in the patient s inspiratory air stream during breathing by the device. In order to achieve a free flowing powder the therapeutic agent is formulated with an excipient such as lactose. A measured amount of the therapeutic agent is stored in a capsule form and is dispensed with each actuation.

The inventions also relates to formulations wherein the particle size of a compound of formula I between 10 1000 nm preferably 10 400 nm. Such pharmaceutical formulations have been developed especially for drugs that show poor bioavailability based upon the principle that bioavailability can be increased by increasing the surface area i.e. decreasing particle size. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 107 288 describes a pharmaceutical formulation having particles in the size range from 10 to 1 000 nm in which the active material is supported on a crosslinked matrix of macromolecules. U.S. Pat. No. 5 145 684 describes the production of a pharmaceutical formulation in which the drug substance is pulverized to nanoparticles average particle size of 400 nm in the presence of a surface modifier and then dispersed in a liquid medium to give a pharmaceutical formulation that exhibits remarkably high bioavailability. Both documents are included by reference.

In a further aspect the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Acceptable excipients are non toxic aid administration and do not adversely affect the therapeutic benefit of the compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC . Such excipient may be any solid liquid semi solid or in the case of an aerosol composition gaseous excipient that is generally available to one of skill in the art.

Solid pharmaceutical excipients include starch cellulose talc glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel magnesium stearate sodium stearate glycerol monostearate sodium chloride dried skim milk and the like.

Liquid and semisolid excipients may be selected from glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and various oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin e.g. peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil etc. Preferred liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions include water saline aqueous dextrose and glycols. Compressed gases may be used to disperse a compound of the formula I in aerosol form. Inert gases suitable for this purpose are nitrogen carbon dioxide etc. Other suitable pharmaceutical excipients and their formulations are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences edited by E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Company 18th ed. 1990 . The amount of the compound in a formulation can vary within the full range employed by those skilled in the art. Typically the formulation will contain on a weight percent wt basis from about 0.01 99.99 wt of a compound of formula I based on the total formulation with the balance being one or more suitable pharmaceutical excipients. Preferably the compound is present at a level of about 1 80 wt .

The invention further relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising i.e. containing or consisting of at least one compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable excipient such as a carrier and or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing the components.

Combined pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I IA IB IB and or IC in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form and further comprising a combination partner either in one dosage unit form or as a kit of parts in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable carrier and or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent with said active ingredients.

The following examples of compounds formula I IA IB IB and or IC illustrate the invention without limiting the scope thereof. Methods for preparing such compounds are described.

Temperatures are measured in degrees Celsius. Unless otherwise indicated the reactions take place under an argon atmosphere at it and the MS are obtained with ESI. The following HPLC and LC MS methods are used in the preparation and analysis of the Intermediates and Examples 

EtN 0.53 mmol was added to a mixture of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 1.1 0.177 mmol and 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 1.8 0.194 mmol in DMF 1 mL at rt. After stirring for 20 h the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column followed by trituration with EtOAc to afford the title compound as a white solid. HPLC t 4.27 min method B LC MS t 1.34 min M H 400 method A TLC R 0.12 95 5 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 10.92 br s 1H 8.41 d 1H 7.38 br s 1H 7.28 s 1H 7.16 d 1H 6.98 br s 1H 4.15 m 1H 3.69 m 1H 3.37 m 1H 2.40 s 3H 2.36 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.69 m 1H 1.48 s 3H 1.18 m 2H 0.98 d 3H 0.80 m 2H .

A mixture of 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 ylamine Step 1.2 28.5 mmol and CDI 42.8 mmol in CHCl 330 mL was refluxed for 11 h. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered to afford the title compound as a light green solid.

A mixture of N 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 1.3 34.8 mmol a 6N aqueous solution of HCl 53 mL and EtOH 265 mL was stirred for 5 h at 85 C. cooled to rt and then concentrated. The residue was slowly diluted with a saturated solution of NaHCOand then extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic phases were successively washed with a saturated solution of NaHCOand brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was triturated with CHCland then filtered to afford the title compound as a yellow green solid. HPLC t 3.55 min method B LC MS t 1.03 min M H 246 TLC R 0.26 1 2 Hex EtOAc .

A mixture of 2 acetamido 4 methylthiazole 7336 51 8 60.4 mmol cesium carbonate 110 mmol tri tert butylphosphinium tetrafluoroborate 10.99 mmol palladium II acetate 5.49 mmol and 4 bromo 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyridine Step 1.4 54.9 mmol in DMF 230 mL was stirred for 3.5 h at 100 C. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was filtered and then concentrated. The residue was diluted with a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic phases were successively washed with a saturated solution of NaHCOand brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a pale yellow solid. HPLC t 4.37 min method B LC MS t 1.47 min M H 288 TLC R 0.26 1 2 Hex EtOAc .

A mixture of 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl 1H pyridin 4 one Step 1.5 13.4 mmol and POBr 14.74 mmol was stirred for 15 min at 85 C. and then 15 min at 120 C. After cooling slightly the reaction mixture was poured into a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with CHCl 2 . The combined organic phases were washed with a saturated solution of NaHCO dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a brown oil. HPLC t 4.11 min method B LC MS t 2.39 min M H 212 214 TLC R 0.31 CHCl .

A mixture of 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyran 4 one Step 1.6 66.6 mmol and a 28 30 aqueous solution of ammonium hydroxide 182 mL was stirred for 1 h at 65 C. After cooling to rt the reaction mixture was decanted to remove a dark brown solid and then concentrated. The residue was diluted with MeOH and re concentrated 3 to afford the title compound as a brown orange solid. HPLC t 3.56 min method B LC MS t 0.87 min M H 151 TLC R 0.18 9 1 CHCl MeOH .

A mixture of 1Z 4E 1 hydroxy 5 methoxy 1 1 methyl cyclopropyl penta 1 4 dien 3 one one Step 1.7 111 mmol and TFA 221 mmol in toluene 175 mL was stirred for 15.5 h at rt and then concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a white solid. LC MS t 1.48 min M H 151 TLC R 0.26 EtOAc .

LiHMDS 1M in THF 845 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of trans 4 methoxy 3 buten 2 one 51731 17 0 845 mmol in THF 2 L at 78 C. After stirring for 15 min a solution of 1 methyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride 16480 05 0 407 mmol in THF 100 mL was added. The resulting mixture was allowed to warm to rt over 2.5 h and then quenched by addition of a saturated solution of NHCl. The mixture was extracted with EtO 2 . The combined organic phases were successively washed with a saturated solution of NaHCOand brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a yellow solid. ESI MS M H 183 TLC R 0.29 9 1 Hex EtOAc .

A mixture of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 1.9 4.76 mmol and 10 Pd on charcoal 0.947 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was hydrogenated for 46 h at rt. The reaction mixture was then filtered through a Fluoropore Membrane Filter 0.2 m FG and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in CHCland evaporated to dryness to afford the title compound as a white solid. ESI MS M H 129 TLC R 0.10 1 3 Hex EtOAc .

Trimethylaluminum in toluene 2 M 6.46 mmol was added dropwise to a mixture of NHCl 6.47 mmol in toluene 3.2 mL at 0 C. with the formation of methane gas. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to rt stirred for a further 15 min and then slowly treated with 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester prepared as described in 1997 38 85 88 6.47 mmol . After stirring for 56 h the mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with 1M HCl and then washed with CHCl 3 . The aqueous phase was basified with a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with CHCl 3 . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a colorless oil. ESI MS M H 233 HPLC t2.35 min method A .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but in Step 1.7 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl chloride Step 2.1 was used instead of 1 methyl cyclopropanecarbonyl chloride.

The title compound was obtained as a white solid. HPLC t 5.16 min method B LC MS t 2.29 min M H 456 method A TLC R 0.17 95 5 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 10.98 br s 1H 8.59 d 1H 7.54 s 1H 7.40 d 1H 7.39 br s 1H 6.98 br s 1H 4.15 m 1H 3.69 m 1H 3.37 m 1H 2.40 s 3H 2.36 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.69 m 1H 1.61 s 6H 0.97 d 3H .

DMF 3 drops was added to a solution of 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid 889940 13 0 179 mmol in CHCl 160 mL at rt. Slowly added a solution of oxalyl chloride 197 mmol in CHCl 20 mL . After stirring for 14 h the reaction mixture was carefully evaporated 500 mbar 33 C. to afford the title compound volatile as a yellow solution.

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but rac 3 3 dimethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide prepared as described in 2008 73 3946 3949 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a yellow solid. HPLC t 2.90 min method A LC MS t 1.32 min M H 414 method A TLC R0.17 9 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 10.97 br s 1H 8.43 d 1H 7.39 m 2H 7.31 br s 1H 6.97 m 1H 3.82 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 3.46 m 1H 2.43 s 3H 1.86 m 1H 1.62 m 1H 1.48 s 3H 1.19 m 2H 1.04 s 3H 0.99 s 3H 0.85 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 2 but rac 3 3 dimethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide prepared as described in 2008 73 3946 3949 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a yellow solid. HPLC t 5.38 min method B LC MS t 2.12 min M H 470 method A TLC R 0.12 9 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 10.93 br s 1H 8.58 d 1H 7.54 s 1H 7.39 d 1H 7.39 br s 1H 6.97 br s 1H 3.82 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 3.46 m 1H 2.39 s 3H 1.86 m 1H 1.61 m 1H 1.59 s 6H 1.04 s 3H 1.00 s 3H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but 2S 3S 3 acetylamino methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 5.1 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a white solid. HPLC t 4.00 min method B LC MS t 1.04 min M H 457 method A TLC R 0.17 9 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR DMSO 600 MHz 10.96 br s 1H 8.42 d 1H 7.80 br s 1H 7.49 br s 1H 7.29 s 1H 7.17 d 1H 7.10 br s 1H 4.25 m 1H 3.72 m 1H 3.37 m 1H 3.23 m 1H 2.92 m 1H 2.41 s 3H 2.39 m 1H 2.00 m 1H 1.82 s 3H 1.73 m 1H 1.49 s 3H 1.19 m 2H 0.81 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.8 but 2S 3S 3 acetylamino methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 5.2 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide. Moreover 10 Pd on charcoal wet with 50 H2O Aldrich 330108 was used instead of the dry catalyst.

The title compound was obtained as an off white solid. ESI MS M H 186 TLC R 0.08 200 20 1 CHCl MeOH conc NHOH .

Thioacetic acid 2.312 mmol was added to 2S 3S 3 azidomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 5.3 0.578 mmol at it with the formation of nitrogen gas. After stirring for 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtO the solids were removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a light yellow oil thiol odor . HPLC t 3.71 min method B LC MS t 0.64 min M H 290 TLC R 0.38 200 20 1 CHCl MeOH conc. NHOH .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.9 but 2S 3S 3 azidomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Step 5.4 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester. Moreover a 1 1 saturated solution of NaHCO saturated solution of Rochelle s salt was used for the basification and the basified aqueous layer was extracted exhaustively with THF.

The title compound was obtained as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.50 min method A ESI MS M H 274 TLC R 0.26 3 1 Hex EtOAc .

Sodium azide 5.34 mmol was added to a solution of 2S 3R 3 iodomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Step 5.5 3.56 mmol in DMF 30 mL at rt. After 18 h the reaction mixture was poured onto water and extracted with MTBE 2 . The combined organic phases were washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to to afford the title compound as a brown oil. HPLC t 3.26 min method A ESI MS M H 289.

A solution of but 3 enyl S 1 phenyl ethyl amino acetic acid methyl ester 432555 77 6 20.22 mmol in THF 10 mL was slowly added to a solution of lithium diisopropylamide 24.26 mmol in 1 2 hexanes THF 30 mL at 78 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to 0 C. stirred for 1 h and then re cooled to 78 C. A solution of zinc bromide 50.5 mmol in EtO 40 mL was added and the reaction mixture was then warmed to rt. After stirring for 1 h the mixture was cooled to 0 C. and iodine 22.24 mmol was added in portions. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h and at rt for another 2 h diluted with EtO and then successively washed with a saturated solution of NaSOand a saturated solution of NHCl. The aqueous layers were each back extracted with EtO. The combined organic phases were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a red oil. HPLC t 3.46 min method A ESI MS M H 374.

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 2 but 2S 3S 3 acetylamine methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 5.1 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a white solid. HPLC t 4.7314.78 min method B LC MS t 1.81 min M H 513 method A TLC R 0.17 9 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR dDMSO 600 MHz 11.05 br s 1H 8.59 d 1H 7.80 br s 1H 7.55 s 1H 7.49 br s 1H 7.40 m 1H 7.10 br s 1H 4.25 m 1H 3.72 m 1H 3.39 m 1H 3.23 m 1H 2.92 m 1H 2.41 s 3H 2.39 m 1H 2.00 m 1H 1.82 s 3H 1.72 m 1H 1.61 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 7.1 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a pale yellow solid. HPLC t 2.39 min method A LC MS t 0.90 min M H 485 method A TLC R 0.09 19 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 10.90 br s 1H 8.41 d 1H 7.35 br s 1H 7.29 s 1H 7.17 d 1H 7.02 br s 1H 4.26 br s 1H 3.69 m 1H 3.58 m 4H 3.40 m 1H 2.58 m 1H 2.41 s 3H 2.38 m 4H 2.35 m 1H 2.17 m 1H 2.00 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 1.49 s 3H 1.19 m 2H 0.81 m 2H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.8 but 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 7.2 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide. Moreover 10 Pd on charcoal wet with 50 H2O Aldrich 330108 was used instead of the dry catalyst.

The title compound was obtained as a colorless oil. ESI MS M H 214 TLC R 0.14 200 20 1 CHCl MeOH conc. NHOH .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.9 but 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Step 7.3 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester. Moreover the basified aqueous layer was extracted exhaustively with THF instead of CHCl.

A mixture of 2S 3R 3 iodomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Step 5.5 7.07 mmol KCO 21.22 mmol and morpholine 10.61 mmol in acetonitrile 24 mL was stirred at 50 C. for 62 h. The reaction mixture was poured onto ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic layers were successively washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.56 min method A ESI MS M H 333.

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 2 but 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 7.1 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a yellow foam. HPLC t 4.81 min method B LC MS t 1.53 min M H 541 method A TLC R 0.22 9 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 11.02 br s 1H 8.60 d 1H 7.55 s 1H 7.41 d 1H 7.36 br s 1H 7.03 br s 1H 4.26 m 1H 3.69 m 1H 3.58 m 4H 3.41 m 1H 2.58 m 1H 2.41 s 3H 2.38 m 4H 2.35 m 1H 2.17 m 1H 2.01 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 1.61 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 1 fluoro 1 methyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 9.1 was used instead of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide. LC MS t 1.53 min M H 407.0 method B H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 11 s br 1H 8.7 s 1H 7.5 s 1H 7.35 s 1H 6.95 s 1H 4.15 s 1H 3.65 m 1H 3.4 m 1H 2.6 s 3H 2.3 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.75 s 3H 1.7 s 3H 1.7 s 3H 1.7 m 1H 0.95 d 3H .

CDI 0.10 g was added to a stirred solution of 5 2 1 fluoro 1 methyl ethyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine Step 9.2 0.15 g in CHCl 4 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was then stood for 56 h at 25 C. and the title compound isolated by filtration.

A mixture of N 5 E 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 507487 90 3 2.1 g 2 fluoro 2 methylpropionamidine 1.7 g prepared by an analogous procedure to that described for Example 1 in EP 0227415 and 2 methoxyethanol 3.8 mL was stirred at it for 30 min. NaOH 0.3 g was added and the mixture stirred at 125 C. for 2 h. After cooling to rt water was added and the mixture evaporated to dryness and purified by normal phase chromatography on silica gel eluting with CHCl MeOH conc. NHOH 97.5 2 0.5 to give the title compound.

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 1 but imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 2 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropyl 4 5 bithiazolyl 2 yl amide Step 10.1 was used instead of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 5 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyridin 4 yl thiazol 2 yl amide and 2S 3R 3 hydroxy pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide described in H. Fukushima et al. Biorg. Med. Chem. 2004 12 6053 H. Ji et al. J. Med. Chem. 2006 49 6254 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide. LC MS t 1.78 min M H 462.0 M H 460.0 method B H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.8 s br 1H 7.6 s 1H 7.1 s br 1H 6.9 s br 1H 5.15 s 1H 4.4 s 1H 4.2 s br 1H 3.6 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 2.4 s 3H 1.9 m 1H 1.7 m 1H 1.6 s 1H 1.52 s 2H .

CDI 0.13 g was added to a stirred solution of 4 methyl 2 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropyl 4 5 bithiazolyl 2 ylamine Step 10.2 0.16 g in CHCl 5 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was then stood for 3 h at 25 C. and the title compound isolated by filtration.

HCl 1.17 g 32 aqueous solution was added to a solution of N 4 methyl 2 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropyl 4 5 bithiazolyl 2 yl acetamide Step 10.3 0.18 g in EtOH 10 mL and the reaction mixture heated at reflux for 7 h. The cooled reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and aqueous NaHCOsolution the organic layers dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the title compound. MS ESI positive 306.1 M H negative 304.1 M H .

To a solution of N 5 2 bromo acetyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide 0.29 g prepared as described in WO 2005 068444 in MeOH 15 mL at rt was added 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropanecarbothioic acid amide 871913 36 9 0.20 g and ammoniumphosphomolybdate 0.15 g . After stirring 18 h at rt the reaction mixture was partitioned between EtOAc and water the organic layers dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the crude product. Purification by flash chromatography with an eluent of 1 MeOH in CHClgave the title compound. MS ESI positive 348.1 M H negative 346.1 M H .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 4 methyl 2 1 trifluoromethyl cyclopropyl 4 5 bithiazolyl 2 yl amide Step 10.1 20 mg is added to a stirred solution of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 1.8 9 mg and EtN 21 l in DMF 0.5 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 56 h evaporated and crystallized from aqueous MeOH to give the title compound. LC MS t 1.90 min M H 460.0 M H 458.0 method B H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.75 s br 1H 7.62 s 1H 7.35 s br 1H 6.95 s br 1H 4.15 s br 1H 3.65 m 1H 3.35 m 1H 2.4 s 3H 2.35 m 1H 1.9 m 1H 1.7 m 1H 1.52 s 1H 1.50 s 2H 0.95 d 

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 2 d tert butyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 12.1 222 mg is added to a stirred solution of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 1.8 95 mg and EtN 264 l in DMF 3 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at rt for 56 h evaporated and crystallized from aqueous MeOH to give the title compound. MS ESI positive 412.1 M H negative 410.2 M H .

CDI 0.77 g was added to a stirred solution of 5 2 d tert butyl pyrimidin 4 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine Step 12.2 1.11 g in DMF 4.3 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was then stood for 18 h at 25 C. and the title compound isolated by filtration.

Powdered NaOH 3.71 g was added to a solution of N 5 3 dimethylamino acryloyl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine 507487 90 3 5.51 g and d 2 2 dimethyl propionamidine hydrochloride Step 12.3 4.50 g in 2 methoxyethanol 41 mL and the mixture heated at 125 C. for 1 h with stirring. The reaction mixture was cooled water added and the crude product isolated by filtration. The crude product was purified by preparative HPLC and the fractions containing the title compound partitioned between CHCland aqueous NaHCO. The title compound was obtained as a yellow solid after evaporation of the dried CHCllayers. LC MS t 1.12 min M H 258.4.

A 2M solution of trimethylaluminium in toluene 61 mL was added dropwise to a suspension of ammonium chloride 6.53 g in toluene 46 mL with ice bath cooling. The reaction mixture was stirred for 4 h at it and d 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid butyl ester Step 12.4 6.3 g added. After heating at 80 C. for 4 days the reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. and MeOH 200 mL was carefully added dropwise. After stirring and sonication for 1 h at rt the reaction mixture was filtered through Hyflo washing with MeOH and the filtrate was evaporated to give the title compound as an off white solid.

d tert Butylchloride 5.0 g was added portionwise to a suspension of magnesium 1.50 g in THF 20 mL activated with a catalytic amount of iodine over 1 h with heating as required to maintain a steady reflux. The reaction mixture was then heated for a further 1 h to ensure complete Grignard formation. The above Grignard solution was then added dropwise to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid butyl ester 7.5 g prepared as described by T. Werner and A. G. M. Barrett J. Org. Chem. 2006 71 4302 4304. in THF 40 mL cooled with an ice bath. The reaction mixture was stirred for 18 h at rt 200 mL was added the mixture filtered through Hyflo the filtrate extracted with EtO and the EtO layers dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the tile compound.

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 5 6 d diethylamino pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl amide Step 13.1 19 mg was added to a stirred solution of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 1.8 9 mg and Et3N 21 l in DMF 0.5 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was stirred at it for 56 h water 1 mL was added and the title compound collected by filtration. MS ESI positive 428.1 M H negative 426.2 M H .

CDI 78 mg was added to a solution of 5 6 d diethylamino pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 ylamine Step 13.2 121 mg in DMF 2 mL at rt and stood for 3.5 h at rt. The reaction mixture was filtered washing with CHCl to give the title compound.

Concentrated HCl 0.4 mL was added to N 5 6 d diethylamino pyrazin 2 yl 4 methyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Step 13.3 140 mg in EtOH 9 ml at it and the mixture heated at reflux for 40 h. The cooled reaction mixture was evaporated neutralized with aqueous NaHCOand extracted with 10 MeOH in CHCl. The combined organic extracts were dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the title compound. LC MS t 1.17 min M H 274.4 method A .

Argon was bubbled through a mixture of 2 d diethylamino 6 chloropyrazine Step 13.4 293 mg 2 acetamido 4 methylthiazole 300 mg palladium acetate 24 mg tri tert butylphosphonium tetrafluoroborate 61 mg and cesium carbonate 1.02 g in DMF 3 mL at rt for 5 min. The reaction mixture was heated in a sealed vial under an argon atmosphere for 45 min at 150 C. in a Biotage Initiator microwave apparatus filtered and purified by preparative HPLC. Fractions containing the title compound were combined and evaporated to remove acetonitrile and the title compound obtained as a beige solid by filtration. LC MS t 1.68 min M H 316.3 method A .

d Diethylamine 0.5 g was added to a stirred mixture of 2 6 dichloropyrazine 4774 14 5 0.93 g and potassium carbonate 1.41 g in acetonitrile 4 mL at rt. The reaction mixture was then heated at 55 C. for 60 h cooled water added and extracted with CHCl. The combined organic extracts were dried over NaSO evaporated and purified by normal phase chromatography eluent CHCl to give the title compound. LC MS t 2.10 min M H 196.4 and 198.4 method A .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 2 but 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 14.1 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a white solid. HPLC t 3.18 min method A LC MS t 1.88 min M H 486 method A TLC R 0.14 19 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 10.97 br s 1H 8.60 d 1H 7.55 br 5 1H 7.41 d 1H 7.39 br s 1H 7.04 br s 1H 4.26 br s 1H 3.73 m 1H 3.45 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 3.24 s 3H 3.16 m 1H 2.50 m 1H 2.42 s 3H 2.02 m 1H 1.77 m 1H 1.61 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.8 but 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 14.2 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide. Moreover 10 Pd on charcoal wet with 50 H2O Aldrich 330108 was used instead of the dry catalyst.

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.9 but 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Step 14.3 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester. Moreover the basified aqueous layer was extracted exhaustively with THF instead of CHCl.

The title compound was obtained as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.35 min method A LC MS t 0.47 min M H 263 method C TLC R 0.05 1 1 Heptanes EtOAc .

A mixture of 3aR 6aS 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl hexahydro furo 3 4 b pyrrol 6 one 805246 48 4 17.05 mmol KOH 71.60 mmol and Iodomethane 68.20 mmol in toluene 79 mL was stirred at 80 C. for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and partitioned between water and MTBE. The aqueous layer was extracted with MTBE 3 . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.98 min method A LC MS t 0.69 min M H 278 method C TLC R 0.25 1 3 Heptanes EtOAc .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Example 2 but 2S 3S 3 dimethylaminomethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 15.1 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was obtained as a yellow solid. HPLC I 4.71 min method B LC MS t 1.58 min M H 499 method A TLC R 0.08 4 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 10.99 br s 1H 8.60 d 1H 7.55 br s 1H 7.41 d 1H 7.40 br s 1H 7.04 br s 1H 4.25 br s 1H 3.69 m 1H 3.41 m 1H 2.51 m 1H 2.41 s 3H 2.32 m 1H 2.17 m 1H 2.17 s 6H 2.01 m 1H 1.72 m 1H 1.61 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Step 1.8 but 2S 3S 3 dimethylaminomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 15.2 was used instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide. Moreover the hydrogenation was performed under 4 bar pressure. The title compound was obtained as a yellow oil. ESI MS M H 172.

A mixture of 2S 3S 3 aminomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 15.3 0.418 mmol sodium cyanoborohydride 2.86 mmol and 37 aqueous formaldehyde 2.14 mmol in MeOH 3.3 mL was stirred at 55 C. for 16 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to it and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a white foam. HPLC t3.59 min method B LC MS t 0.86 min M H 276 method A TLC R 0.13 9 1 CHCl MeOH .

A mixture of 2S 3S 3 azidomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Step 5.3 0.723 mmol and triphenylphosphine 0.867 mmol in THF 3 mL was stirred at it for 25 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to afford the crude title compound as a light brown solid. HPLC t3.53 min method B ESI MS M H 248.

The title compound was prepared from commercially available Combi Phos 4 bromo 2 tert butyl pyridine instead of 4 bromo 2 1 methyl cyclopropyl pyridine using synthetic methodology as described for the preparation of Example 1.

LC MS t 0.45 min M H 402.3 M H 400.2 method D . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 8.495 d 1H 7.34 s 2H 7.205 d 1H 6.95 bs 1H 4.15 m 1H 3.68 dd 1H 3.37 m 1H 2.39 s 3H 2.37 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.68 m 1H 1.32 s 9H 0.965 d 3H .

PI3K KinaseGlo assay 50 mL of compound dilutions were dispensed onto black 384 well low volume Non Binding Styrene NBS plates Costar Cat. No. NBS 3676 . L a phosphatidylinositol PI provided as 10 mg ml solution in methanol was transferred into a glass tube and dried under nitrogen beam. It was then resuspended in 3 OctylGlucoside OG by vortexing and stored at 4 C. The KinaseGlo Luminescent Kinase Assay Promega Madison WI USA is a homogeneous HTS method of measuring kinase activity by quantifying the amount of ATP remaining in solution following a kinase reaction.

5 L of a mix of PI OG with the PI3K subtype were added Table 1 . Kinase reactions were started by addition of 5 l of ATP mix containing in a final volume 10 L 10 mM TRIS HCl pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl 50 mM NaCl 0.05 CHAPS 1 mM DTT and 1 M ATP and occurred at room temperature. Reactions were stopped with 10 l of KinaseGlo and plates were read 10 mins later in a Synergy2 reader using an integration time of 0.1 seconds per well. 2.5 M of a pan class 1 PI3 kinase inhibitor standard was added to the assay plates to generate the 100 inhibition of the kinase reaction and the 0 inhibition was given by the solvent vehicle 90 DMSO in water . The standard was used as a reference compound and included in all assay plates in the form of 16 dilution points in duplicate.

The PI3K PI3K and PI3K constructs are fusion of p85 iSH2 domain and the respective p110 isoforms. The p85 fragment and p110 isoform genes were generated by PCR from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial RNA from placenta testis and brain as described below. The PI3K construct was obtained from Roger Williams lab MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology Cambridge UK November 2003 and is described Pacold Michael E. Suire Sabine Perisic Olga Lara Gonzalez Samuel Davis Colin T. Walker Edward H. Hawkins Phillip T. Stephens Len Eccleston John F. Williams Roger L. Crystal structure and functional analysis of Ras binding to its effector phosphoinositide 3 kinase gamma. Cell 2000 103 6 931 943 .

BV1075 The construct for Baculovirus BV 1075 was generated by a three part ligation comprised of a p85 fragment and a p110 fragment cloned into vector pBlueBac4.5. The p85 fragment was derived from plasmid p1661 2 digested with Nhe Spe. The p110 fragment derived from is clone was verified by sequencing and used in a LR410 as a SpeI HindIII fragment. For the generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR410 the gateway LR reaction to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector was used. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was digested with Nhe HindIII. This resulted in the construct PED 153.8. The p85 component iSH2 was generated by PCR using ORF 318 described above as a template and one forward primer KAC1028 5 GCTAGCATGCGAGAATATGATAGAT TATATGAAG AATATACC SEQ ID No. 1 and two reverse primers KAC1029 5 GCCTCCACCAC CTCCGCCTG GTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC SEQ ID No. 2 and KAC1039 5 TACTAGTC CGCCTCCAC CACCTCCGCCTCCACCACCTCCGCC SEQ ID No. 3 . The two reverse primers overlap and incorporate the 12 Gly linker and the N terminal sequence of the p110 gene to the SpeI site. The 12 Gly linker replaces the single Gly linker in the BV1052 construct. The PCR fragment was cloned into pCR2.1 TOPO Invitrogen . Of the resulting clones p1661 2 was determined to be correct by sequencing. This plasmid was digested with Nhe and SpeI and the resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning.

The p110 cloning fragment was generated by enzymatic digest of clone LR410 see above with Spe I and HindIII. The SpeI site is in the coding region of the p110 gene. The resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was prepared by enzymatic digestion with Nhe and HindIII. The cut vector was purified with Qiagen column and then dephosphorylated with Calf Intestine alkaline phosphatase CIP BioLabs . After completion of the CIP reaction the cut vector was again column purified to generate the final vector. A three part ligation was performed using Roche Rapid ligase and the vendor specifications. The final plasmid was verified by sequencing.

BV949 PCR products for the inter SH2 domain iSH2 of the p85 PI3K PI3K and PI3K subunit and for the full length p110 subunit were generated and fused by overlapping PCR. The iSH2 PCR product was obtained from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial human RNA from placenta testis and brain Clontech initially using primers gwG130 p01 5 CGAGAATATGATAGATTATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 5 and gwG130 p02 5 TGGTTT AATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTCAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 6 . Subsequently in a secondary PCR reaction Gateway recombination AttB1 sites and linker sequences were added at the 5 end and 3 end of the p85 iSH2 fragment respectively using primers gwG130 p03 5 GGGACAAGTT TGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACGAAGGAGATATACATATGCGAGAATATGATAGAT TATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 7 and gwG130 p05 5 ACTGAAGCATCCTCCTC CTCCTCCT CCTGGTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC 3 SEQ ID No. 8 . The p110 fragment was obtained by PCR using as template a p110 clone from unknown source that was sequence verified using primers gwG130 04 5 ATTAAACCAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGATGCTT CAG 111 CATAATGCCTCCTGCT 3 SEQ ID No. 9 which contains linker sequences and the 5 end of p110 and gwG130 p06 5 AGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGATGTGCTCCAGATC TGTAGTCTTTCCGAA CTGTGTG 3 SEQ ID No. 10 which contains sequences of the 3 end of p110 fused to a Histidine tag. The p85 iSH2 p110 fusion protein was assembled by an overlapping PCR a reaction of the linkers at the 3 end of the iSH2 fragment and the 5 end of the p110 fragment using the above mentioned gwG130 p03 primer and a primer containing an overlapping Histidine tag and the AttB2 recombination sequences 5 GGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTAAGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGAT GTGCTCC 3 SEQ ID No. 11 . This final product was recombined in a Gateway Invitrogen OR reaction into the donor vector pDONR201 Invitrogen to generate the ORF253 entry clone. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR280. This LR280 has an amino acid mutation in the p85 sequence.

Construct obtained from Roger Williams lab MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology Cambridge UK November 2003 . Description of the construct in Pacold Michael E. Suire Sabine Perisic Olga Lara Gonzalez Samuel Davis Colin T. Walker Edward H. Hawkins Phillip T. Stephens Len Eccleston John F. Williams Roger L. Crystal structure and functional analysis of Ras binding to its effector phosphoinositide 3 kinase gamma. Cell 2000 103 6 931 943 . Constructs lacking the N terminal 144 aa.

BV1060 PCR products for the inter SH2 domain iSH2 of the p85 subunit and for the full length p110 subunit were generated and fused by overlapping PCR. The iSH2 PCR product was generated by using as a template the ORF318 see above and the primers gwG130 p03 5 GGGACAAG TTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACGAAGGAGATATACATATGC GAGAATATGATAGATTATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 7 and gwG154 p04 5 TCCTCCTCCT CCTCCTCCTGGTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC 3 SEQ ID No. 14 . The p110 fragment was obtained from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial human RNA from placenta testis and brain Clontech using initially primers gwG154 p01 5 ATGCCCCCTGGGGTGGACTGCCCCAT 3 SEQ ID No. 15 and gwG154 p02 5 CTACTGCCTGT TGTCTTTGGACACGT 3 SEQ ID No. 16 . In a subsequent PCR reaction linker sequences and a Histidine tag was added at the 5 end and 3 end of the p110 fragment respectively using primers gw154 p03 5 ATTAAACCAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGACCCCCTGGGGTGGAC TGCCCCATGGA 3 SEQ ID No. 17 and gwG154 p06 5 AGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGAT GTGCT CCCTGCCTGTTGTCTTTGGACACGTTGT 3 SEQ ID No. 18 . The p85 iSH2 p110 fusion protein was assembled in a third PCR reaction by the overlapping linkers at the 3 end of the iSH2 fragment and the 5 end of the p110 fragment using the above mentioned gwG130 p03 primer and a primer containing an overlapping Histidine tag and the Gateway Invitrogen AttB2 recombination sequences 5 GGG ACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTAA GCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGAGTGCTCC 3 SEQ ID No. 19 . This final product was recombined in a Gateway OR reaction into the donor vector pDONR201 Invitrogen to generate the ORF319 entry clone. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR415.

PI3K PI3K and PI3K were purified in two chromatographic steps immobilized metal affinity chromatography IMAC on a Ni sepharose resin GE Healthcare and gel filtration utilizing a Superdex 200 26 60 column GE Healthcare . All buffers were chilled to 4 C. and lysis was performed chilled on ice. Column fractionation was performed at room temperature. All buffers used to purify PI3K contained 0.05 Triton X100 in addition to what is described below.

Typically frozen cells from 10 L of Tn5 cell culture were resuspended in Lysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL okadaic acid OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free 20 tablets 1 L buffer Roche Applied Sciences benzonase 25 U mL buffer EMD Biosciences at a ratio of 1 6 v v pellet to Lysis Buffer ratio and mechanically lysed by douncing 20 strokes using a tight fitting pestle. The lysate was centrifuged at 45 000 g for 30 minutes and the supernatant was loaded onto a pre equilibrated IMAC column 3 mL resin 100 mL lysate . The column was washed with 3 5 column volumes of Lysis Buffer followed by a second wash of 3 5 column volumes with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 45 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Protein was eluted with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 250 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SOS PAGE and pooled accordingly. The protein was further purified by gel filtration on a Superdex 200 26 60 column equilibrated in 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 5 mM DTT 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. An equal volume of Dialysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 50 glycerol 5 mM NaF 5 mM DTT was added to the pool and than dialyzed against Dialysis Buffer two changes one change overnight . Protein was stored at 20 C.

PI3K was purified in three chromatographic steps immobilized metal affinity chromatography on a Ni Sepharose resin GE Healthcare gel filtration utilizing a Superdex 200 26 60 column GE Healthcare and finally a ion exchange step on a Q HP column GE Healthcare . All buffers were chilled to 4 C. and lysis was performed chilled on ice. Column fractionation was performed at room temperature.

Typically frozen cells from 10 L of Tn5 cell culture were resuspended in Lysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL okadaic acid OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free 20 tablets 1 L buffer Roche Applied Sciences benzonase 25 U mL lysis buffer EMD Biosciences at a ratio of 1 10 v v pellet to Lysis Buffer ratio and mechanically lysed by douncing 20 strokes using a tight fitting pestle. The lysate was centrifuged at 45 000 g for 30 minutes and the supernatant was loaded onto a pre equilibrated IMAC column 5 mL resin 100 mL lysate . The column was washed with 3 5 column volumes of Lysis Buffer followed by a second wash of 3 5 column volumes with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 40 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Protein was eluted with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 250 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. The protein was further purified by gel filtration on a Superdex 200 equilibrated in 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM DTT 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. These fractions were diluted 1 10 v v pool volume to buffer ratio with Buffer A 20 mM Tris Cl pH 8.2 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM DU and loaded onto a prepared Q HP column. After sample loading is completed we wash with Buffer A and 5 Buffer B 20 mM Tris Cl pH 8.2 1 M NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM OTT for 3 5 column volumes. We elute the protein using a 5 30 gradient of Buffer B. Typically the protein elutes at 200 mM NaCl. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. An equal volume of Dialysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 50 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM DTT was added to the pool and then dialyzed against Dialysis Buffer two changes one change overnight . Protein was stored at 20 C.

The following results were obtained using the above described assays. The selectivity factors for the PI3K beta gamma and delta isoforms were calculated by dividing the respective ICvalue by the PI3Kalpha ICvalue.

