---

title: Diamond synthesis employing nanoparticle seeds
abstract: Iron nanoparticles were employed to induce the synthesis of diamond on molybdenum, silicon, and quartz substrates. Diamond films were grown using conventional conditions for diamond synthesis by hot filament chemical vapor deposition, except that dispersed iron oxide nanoparticles replaced the seeding. This approach to diamond induction can be combined with dip pen nanolithography for the selective deposition of diamond and diamond patterning while avoiding surface damage associated to diamond-seeding methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08784766&OS=08784766&RS=08784766
owner: The University of Puerto Rico
number: 08784766
owner_city: San Juan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100118
---
The claimed invention was made with U.S. Government support under grant number NSF 0701525 awarded by the National Science Foundation NSF and grant numbers NNG05GG78H NCC5 595 and NCC3 1034 awarded by the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA . The government has certain rights in this invention.

Many challenges remain opening regarding the integration of diamond into electronic devices. In particular seeding processes are typically harsh on the substrate surface leading to defect creation and lack of reproducibility. Iron based materials have been used as catalysts in the synthesis of crystalline diamond by high temperature high pressure growth. Yet it is difficult to fabricate diamond on iron based materials by chemical vapor deposition CVD due to the rapid diffusion of carbon into the bulk and high carbon solubility. There have been a number of attempts to grow diamond by forming a thin film of iron on silicon substrates. Higher diamond nucleation densities with significant amounts of a C are attained by depositing a thin layer of iron on silicon substrates thus suggesting that a high carbon concentration resulting in a saturated carbide layer during the initial stage of nucleation is required for producing diamond nucleation sites. The prior art further indicates that there is an optimum iron thickness at which diamond growth prevails.

Thus there exists a need for an efficient process that selectively yields high quality diamond films at relatively high growth rate with negligible co deposition of amorphous carbon and avoids any pre and post treatment of the substrate in order to prevent any undue damage to it.

The above described developments suggest that the Fe nanoparticles can be employed as diamond nucleation centers they have a strong affinity for C atoms and yet they are too small to act as C sinks. FeO nanoparticles nFeO are ideal candidates for this task because the Fe nanoparticle is passivated by O which is then removed by the CVD reactions leaving the active Fe nanoparticle exposed for C trapping and accumulation.

The present invention provides an efficient process of producing high quality diamond films on metal semiconductor or insulator substrates employing metal compound nanoparticle seeds.

According to an aspect of the invention diamond is obtained over a substrate is by providing a substrate depositing metal compound nanoparticle seeds on the substrate said metal being capable of carbide formation and directing a stream of fluid composition at the seeded substrate under conditions that effect diamond growth.

In accordance to another aspect of the invention a metal substrate is selected from copper molybdenum aluminum tantalum tungsten nickel or combinations thereof.

According to a further aspect of the invention the semiconductor substrate is selected from silicon germanium gallium arsenide or combinations thereof.

In still another aspect of the invention the insulator substrate is selected from quartz glass gallium nitride silicon carbide boron nitride or combinations thereof.

The present invention particularly provides a process for selective deposition of diamond on silicon molybdenum or quartz substrate using Iron oxide nanoparticles nFeO as seeds. One important aspect of the present invention is that the process is devoid of any diamond powder seeding and avoids subjecting the substrate to any undue damage.

In an aspect of the invention the metal compound nanoparticles of this invention are characterized by a size in the range of 1 50 nm preferably 4 15 nm.

In another aspect of invention the metal compound nanoparticles of this invention are characterized by a surface density in the range of 10 10per cm preferably 10 10per cm.

The distribution of nanoparticles plays a significant role in the deposition of diamond film on the substrate. Thus according to an aspect of the invention the process provides a nanoparticle layer that is uniformly distributed.

According to another aspect of the invention the coated substrates of the present process are kept at a temperature in a range of from about 100 C. to about 1000 C. preferably in a range of from 400 C. to 800 C.

In the process of the present invention no post treatment like plasma etching is required to enhance the post deposition quality of the diamond films. Thus in a further aspect of the invention a process is provided wherein the growth rate for diamond formation is in the range of 1.7 1.9 m h.

According to an aspect of the invention a fluid composition is directed on the substrate seeded with metal nanoparticles and said composition comprises at least one compound having at least one carbon hydrogen bond and a diluent gas. In an embodiment of the invention the compound having at least one carbon hydrogen bond is methane. According to another embodiment of the present invention the diluent gas is selected from hydrogen nitrogen helium neon argon xenon or krypton.

In another aspect of the invention the process of obtaining diamond over a substrate comprises providing a substrate depositing iron oxide nanoparticles seeds on the substrate and directing a stream of carbon containing fluid composition at the seeded substrate under conditions that effect diamond growth.

In a further aspect of the invention the coated substrate is kept at a temperature in a range of from about 700 C. to about 750 C. and the fluid composition comprises methane CH and hydrogen H . The iron oxide nanoparticles used to induce the formation of microcrystalline diamond films have a uniform size distribution in the range of 7 10 nm and a surface density in the range of 10 10per cm.

The observed diamond nucleation density was of the same value as the initial nFeO surface density and was similar to those typically obtained by diamond seeded deposition process. This result is contrary to the prior art methods that involved some form of Fe seeding typically thin Fe films but suffered from substantial co deposition of amorphous carbon.

According to another aspect of the invention the process can be used for selective diamond deposition and patterning at the nanoscale level through Dip Pen Nanolithography followed by chemical vapor deposition and can be applied to coat high quality crystalline diamond to structures with high aspect ratio the interior surfaces of odd shaped structures and conformal coating on cutting tools with ease by adopting a convenient method of placing the FeO nanoparticles uniformly.

The extreme properties of diamond i.e. large electrical breakdown field high saturated current density high thermal conductivity lead to the applicability of diamond to high temperature and high power devices. The present invention is a novel diamond process technology with minimum defect creation that does not impede the carriers mobility and is an efficient process for producing high quality diamond for the potential integration of diamond into active electronic application. The selectivity of the deposition process renders added advantage to the device manufacturing with the current silicon microelectronic processing technologies.

According to a further aspect of the invention the process can also be used to provide protective coating for metal and non metal substrates to avoid their wear and tear especially in the field of prosthetics tribology and microelectronics.

A seed solution of iron oxide nanoparticle was prepared by dissolving 2 4 g of iron oxide nanoparticle nFeO powder in 30 ml of methanol. The solution was then ultrasonicated from about 15 20 min. Microcrystalline diamond particles and films were synthesized using a custom built hot filament CVD HFCVD apparatus. The films were grown on 14 mm diameter and 0.5 mm thick Mo Si and quartz substrates. The substrates were cleaned by sonication in methanol and acetone and dried with inert gas. The nanoparticle seed solution was coated on the substrate using a spin coater for uniform distribution of nFeO particles on the substrate which is vital for obtaining a uniform diamond film. After cleaning a suspension of nFeO with nominal particle size distribution in the 7 10 nm range was applied to the substrates. The surface density of nFeO clusters was estimated to be 10cmby atomic force microscopy and scanning electron microscopy SEM . However scattered micron size patches of unseeded substrate remained. No diamond powder seeding was employed.

A mixture of 2 CHin Hwith a total flow of 100 sccm was directed over the heated rhenium filament kept at 2 700 K and 10 mm above the substrate. The total pressure was kept constant at values between 20 and 50 Torr 2.6 6.6 kPa . The substrates were maintained around 700 730 C. and the deposition time was varied between 30 min and 6 h.

The surface morphology of the films was investigated by SEM. Small portions of the diamond samples were placed on Formvar coated Cu grids and uncoated silicon nitride TEM grids for energy filtered transmission electron microscopy EFTEM and electron energy loss spectroscopy EELS using an energy filtered LEO 922 OMEGA microscope operating at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. The structural phases of the films were characterized by micro Raman spectroscopy RS using a triple monochromator with 1 cmresolution and the 514.5 nm Ar ion laser line for excitation. The spectra were recorded using an 80 objective that probes an area of about 1 2 m. The UV Raman spectra were measured using a double monochromator with a resolution of 3 4 cmand the second harmonic generation of 488 nm radiation 244 nm from an Ar ion laser.

The X ray diffraction XRD measurements were taken on a Siemens D5000 diffractometer using the Cu K line source k 1.5405 in 2 configuration. The X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS measurements were taken using a Physical Electronic system for elemental analysis at room temperature which was operated in the constant energy pass mode using monochromatic Al K X rays h 1 486.6 eV . The resolution of the electron energy analyzer was around 0.25 eV.

The procedure employed for the deposition of diamond films on silicon substrates was the same as outlined above for Molybdenum substrate. Due to the polished and unpolished surface of the silicon substrate commercial substrate from vendor the distribution of seed nanoparticles was not uniform leading to non uniformity of the density. This resulted in crystalline diamond growth in the regions where density was around 10per cmand carbon nanotubes and fiber growth in the regions where density of particles was greater than equal to 10per cm. Though crystalline diamond was obtained there was little presence of amorphous carbon due to non uniform distribution of seed nFeO particles.

The procedure employed for the deposition of diamond films on quartz substrates was the same as outlined above for Molybdenum substrate. The substrates were 14 mm in diameter with 0.5 mm in thickness. Though the substrates showed some regions of carbon nanotubes and fiber growth most of the surface prevailed with crystalline diamond growth and the presence of amorphous carbon was low. The regions of carbon nanotubes and fibers growth on the substrate can be attributed to the high density agglomeration of nFeO nanoparticles due to non uniform distribution.

The structure of the initial nFeO was determined by XRD as shown in . The diffractogram corresponds to cubic iron oxide i.e. maghemite . The average size of the nanoparticles was determined to be around 10 nm using EFTEM as shown in . These nFeO induced the synthesis of microcrystalline diamond as shown in the SEM images of for different deposition times 0.5 2 and 6 h. Micron size well faceted diamond particles are readily observed for a deposition time of 30 min as shown in image a of . The diamond crystallite size increased proportionally for a deposition time of 2 h and lateral collision of growing particles began forming a film as shown in image b of . A deposition time of 6 h led to quite continuous films of about 10 11 m thickness with a few scattered gaps as shown in image c of . The Bragg reflections characteristic of and diamond lattice planes were obtained for all the films data not shown . Control experiments to grow diamond directly on Mo Si and quartz without nFeO or diamond seeding were unsuccessful for deposition times of 6 h as expected except for the formation of a MoC or a SiC surface layer according to XRD.

The diamond growth rates were around 1.7 1.9 m h which is substantially high for HFCVD typically 0.1 0.2 m h and the observed nucleation densities were around 10cm corresponding well to the initial nFeO density and similar to those typically obtained by diamond seeded diamond deposition. In contrast previous reports of methods involving some form of Fe seeding typically thin Fe films suffered from low growth rates and substantial co deposition of amorphous carbon a C . Although there might be a slight effect on the nucleation density due to mechanical polishing of the Mo substrates it does not sufficient to account for the results described above especially since the quartz and Si substrates were not mechanically polished but nevertheless the growth of a microcrystalline diamond film was also successfully induced on them by nFeO. Another important difference is the diamond quality of the nFeO induced diamond films according to their Raman spectra.

The bonding structure of the material was determined by RS excited with two radiation energies visible 2.4 eV and UV 5.1 eV . The combination of visible and UV Raman is an effective approach for probing both kinds of carbon materials because the Raman scattering cross section for sp bonded carbon in the visible region is 50 230 times higher than that of sp bonded carbon. The Stokes shifted visible and UV Raman spectra of the nFeO induced diamond films are shown in plot a . They indicate that there is a relatively small presence of sp bonded carbon in the nFeO induced diamond films. No plasma etching or any other treatment was performed to enhance the post deposition diamond quality of the films. 

The deconvolution of the Raman spectra was done using a Voigt function corresponding to the diamond peak and five Gaussians corresponding to the D and G bands and the bands centered at 1 285 1 490 and 1 610 cm. The spectra were corrected for instrumental broadening to obtain the intrinsic diamond peak widths. plot b shows a sample spectral simulation. The diamond peak FWHM obtained from these simulations is 8 10 cm and the diamond quality factor is around 97 98 further indicating the good quality of the films and their similarity to diamond seeded HFCVD diamond films. The diamond peak is always blue shifted in the 1 333.5 1 335.5 cmrange indicating compressive stresses of around 0.6 1.7 GPa. Similar Raman spectra growth rates XRD diffractograms are obtained for nFeO induced diamond films deposited on quartz Si and Mo substrates under identical conditions thus confirming the consistency of the above described results and ruling out the possibility of an underlying substrate effect.

Energy filtered transmission electron microscopy and EELS were employed to investigate the initial growth phase of nFeO induced diamond. The high resolution EFTEM image shown in shows the aggregation of carbon and formation of lattice planes around a seed nanoparticle dark region . A fast Fourier transform analysis was employed to measure the spacing between the atomic planes which were found to vary. The lattice spacing in different regions was measured to be 1.1 1.16 1.24 and 3.33 0.1 . These values correspond to graphite and interplanar spacing respectively and at the same time the 1.1 and 1.24 0.1 values also correspond to diamond and interplanar spacing respectively. Taken altogether these results point toward the aggregation of graphitic carbon around the seed nanoparticle and the impending formation of diamond.

Parallel EELS core loss spectra of carbon K edge and iron L edge were collected on the area as shown in and the corresponding spectra for nFeO a C and diamond were also obtained for comparison as shown in . There are features at 285 290 297 305 and 325 eV in the carbon K edge spectrum. The peak at 285 eV corresponds to the 0 electronic transition and is thus a signature of sp bonded carbon. The higher energy features correspond to 0 transitions of diamond type carbon bonds. The observed broadening and smoothening of the EELS features corresponding to diamond type bonds is due their co existence with trigonally bonded carbon in the near seed region. The Fe 2p edge shows a peak at 710 eV as shown in plot b corresponding to the transition of electrons from 2p orbitals to unoccupied 3d orbitals confirming the role of iron nanoparticles as carbon clustering centers. No oxygen signal was detected by EELS due to the fact that the HFCVD conditions promote the reaction of surface O with H and C atoms to form HO and CO radicals thus leaving the bare iron particles available to act as C traps.

We also studied the average bonding environment of the material by XPS. The carbon is core spectrum shown in indicates the strong presence of tetrahedral carbon spC in agreement with the Raman spectra. It also shows a strong oxygen is signature and a weak iron 2p signature at 531.5 and 711 eV respectively. The presence of O on the surface is due to post deposition adsorbates while the relatively small Fe signature further confirms its saturation with C.

It has been reported that the formation of a very dense amorphous carbon phase can lead to diamond nucleation. In this process spa bonded C clusters start precipitating by consuming the carbon atoms from the dense amorphous carbon phase. Furthermore there are theoretical studies indicating that diamond nuclei are stable structures when embedded in a C matrix and experiments showed that these serve as nucleation centers for subsequent growth. Thus the formation of a dense amorphous carbon phase is a plausible route for nucleating diamond. The iron nanoparticle may act as catalyst in decomposing the hydrocarbon under CVD conditions after oxygen removal from the initial nFeO leading to active carbon adsorption. Since there is no room for diffusion into the interior of the Fe nanoparticle and the amount of carbon that the Fe nanoparticle can adsorb is limited there occurs densification of trigonally and tetrahedrally bonded carbon around the iron nanoparticle and the impending formation of diamond bonds.

From the above analysis the synthesis of nFeO induced microcrystalline diamond films can be summarized as follows a iron oxide nanoparticles lose oxygen by chemical vapor reactions that lead to the formation HO and CO radicals creating active nanoscale iron surfaces for the adsorption and decomposition of the incoming carbon containing species and thus for the formation of nanoscale C clusters with trigonal and tetrahedral C bonds b as these carbon clusters densify around the iron nanoparticles diamond type bonds start precipitating and c diamond film deposition continues to occur under conventional diamond growth conditions of high hydrogen dilution which keep the growing surface hydrogenated and preferentially etch away the trigonal carbon bonds.

The iron oxide nanoparticles were employed to induce the formation of diamond nuclei and the synthesis of microcrystalline diamond films. This approach yields relatively high diamond growth rates low presence of amorphous carbon and can be used for the selective diamond deposition and patterning at the nanoscale through dip pen nanolithography of nFeO followed by chemical vapor deposition. The combined analysis of the various characterization results indicate that the iron nanoparticles act as nucleation and aggregation sites for carbon and the impending formation of diamond type bonds. The formation of a dense mixed C phase around the Fe nanoparticles leading to the precipitation of spa C bonds is proposed as a plausible explanation for these results.

Although the invention has been described in conjunction with specific embodiments it is evident that many alternatives and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art in light of the foregoing description. Accordingly the invention is intended to embrace all of the alternatives and variations that fall within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

