---

title: Defective graphene-based memristor
abstract: A graphene-based memristor includes a first electrode, a defective graphene layer adjacent the first electrode, a memristive material that includes a number of ions adjacent the defective graphene layer, a second electrode adjacent the memristive material, and a voltage source that generates an electric field between the first and the second electrodes. Under the influence of the electric field, ions in the memristive material form an ion conducting channel between the second electrode and the defective graphene layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08203171&OS=08203171&RS=08203171
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08203171
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100405
---
This inventions disclosed herein have been made with U.S. Government support under Contract Number HR001 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency DARPA . The U.S. Government has certain rights in these inventions.

Memristive devices or simply memristors are a class of electrical components that potentially can be used for a variety of functions including as switches in electronic circuits and as non volatile memory. Memristors include two terminal devices in which the magnetic flux between the terminals is a function of electric charge passed through the device.

Memristors may be molecular or nano scale devices. When used in electronic circuits and non volatile memory such a nano scale memristor may incorporate a single atom thick layer of graphite normally referred to as graphene. Under certain conditions the graphene layer may form a barrier to the movement of ions between the terminals. To make this memristor operate as a switch or as non volatile memory some mechanism may allow the transport of ions through the graphene layer.

In general terms a memristor is a circuit element that maintains a functional relationship called memristance between time integrals of current and voltage. As disclosed herein a specific implementation of memristor technology involves a switching memristor that employs a thin film of titanium dioxide and has a regime of operation with an approximately linear charge resistance relationship. Such a switching device has application in nano electronic memories devices that are so small that inter atomic interactions and quantum mechanical properties apply. The same switching devices also may find application in computer logic and neuromorphinic computer architectures e.g. very large scale integration VLSI systems containing electronic analog circuits that mimic neuro biological architectures present in the nervous system and analog digital or mixed mode analog digital VLSI systems that implement models of neural systems for perception motor control or sensory processing as well as software algorithms.

A memristor may be a two terminal element in which magnetic flux between the terminals is a function of the amount of electric charge q that has passed through the memristor. A memristor may be characterized by its memristance function which describes the charge dependent rate of change of flux with charge 

Thus memristance may be considered charge dependent resistance. If the memristance function is a constant then by Ohm s law R t V t I t . If the memristance function is not constant or nearly so however the equations are not equivalent because q t and M q t will vary with time.

The memristance function thus defines a linear relationship between current and voltage as long as charge does not vary. Of course nonzero current implies time varying charge. Alternating current however may show the linear dependence in circuit operation by inducing a measurable voltage without net charge movement as long as the maximum change in q does not cause much change in M.

Furthermore the memristor is static if no current is applied. If I t 0 then V t 0 and M t is constant. This is the essence of the memory effect of a memristor. The memristor s power consumption characteristic follows that IR of a resistor. Thus As long as M q t varies little such as under alternating current conditions the memristor will appear as a resistor. If M q t increases rapidly however current and power consumption will quickly stop.

For some memristors applied current or voltage will cause a large change in resistance. Such memristors may be characterized as switches considering the time and energy needed to achieve a desired change in resistance. For a memristor to switch from the resistance ON state R to the resistance OFF state R in time Tto T the charge must change by Q Q Q. Assuming that the applied voltage remains constant the energy required for switching is the integral of dt M q t over the time interval Tto T.

Memristance is displayed when enough charge has passed through the memristor that the ions can no longer move and the memristor device enters hysteresis. Mathematically this condition is defined by keeping q at an upper bound and M fixed. The memristor then acts as a resistor until current is reversed.

A memristor may be implemented as a nano scale device based on the behavior of nano scale thin films. In an embodiment a solid state memristor is combined into devices called crossbar latches which could replace transistors in computers taking up a much smaller area because the memristor devices that make up a crossbar latch potentially can be made far smaller than any transistor. Thus crossbar latches allow much the same functionality as transistors except they do so on a molecular scale.

Nano scale memristors also can be fashioned into non volatile solid state memory which would allow greater data density than hard drives but with access times potentially similar to DRAM thereby being capable of replacing both components.

Although illustrates a graphene layer i.e. a single carbon atom thick structure in some embodiments of a nano scale memristor a structure having more than one graphene layers may be used. A structure having more than one graphene layer may be referred to as graphite where the layers are separated by a gap which may be the normal 0.335 nm gap that exists between layers in graphite. Alternately a structure having more than one graphene layer may include two or more graphene layers separated by another material such as a dielectric material. As used hereinafter a graphene structure refers to one or more graphene layers separated by a gap or by another material while a graphene layer has its ordinary meaning of a single carbon atom layer.

Because of its filtering effect a perfect graphene layer presents a very high barrier to the mobility of ions. When the graphene layer is paired with a memristive material such as TiO and when the graphene layer includes certain engineered defects ion conduction paths may be established below the engineered defects such that paths for electrons between two electrodes of the memristor can be established. An ion conduction path due to the memory effect of the TiO will remain even when power is removed from the memristor. Thus the memristor can maintain its ON state or OFF state even when power to the memristor is removed.

Defects can be naturally occurring or may be engineered into the graphene layer. In the realm of semi conductors in an embodiment any defects in the graphene layer are engineered by for example displacing one or more carbon atoms and or adding an impurity to the graphene layer.

The above mentioned engineered defects produce nanopores through which ions can migrate in the presence of an electric field. illustrate nanopores in a graphene layer. In a graphene layer is shown with nanopore which is formed by ion etching and local oxidation using negatively charged nitrogen and fluorine. The thus formed nanopore favors passage of cations. In a graphene layer includes nanopore which is formed by ion etching followed by local oxidation using positively charged hydrogen ions. Nanopore favors passage of anions.

In memristor comprises a first or top electrode and a second or bottom electrode both of which are formed from platinum as shown. Alternatively the electrodes may be formed from tungsten or titanium or any other suitable electrode material. The electrodes may be on the order of 5 nm thick or thicker. Voltage source connects to each of the top electrode and the bottom electrode and ground to induce an electric field in the memristor . The induced electric field can be used to cause a switch of the memristor from an ON conducting state to an OFF resistive or non conducting state and from the OFF state to the ON state. Interspersed between the electrodes and is defective graphene structure and memristive material . The defective graphene layer includes nanopore which is in an embodiment an engineered defect. In the embodiment shown only one such nanopore exists. Other embodiments may use more than one nanopore. Furthermore the nanopore shown in is in some embodiments less than 20 nm in diameter and in other embodiments is in the range of 1 nm to 20 nm in diameter. Note however that the nanopore need not be a circle let alone a perfect circle and the 

The memristive material or layer comprises a thin film of a material that is electronically semiconducting or nominally electronically insulating and also a weakly ionic conductor. The memristive material is capable of transporting and hosting ions that act as dopants to control the flow of electrons through the memristor . To operate switch the memristor an electric field which exceeds a threshold for enabling the motion of the ions is formed via the voltage source in the memristor . The electric field is large enough to cause an ionic species to be transported across the memristive material . The ionic species are specifically chosen from those that act as electrical dopants for the memristive material and thereby change the electrical conductivity of the memristive material from low conductivity i.e. an undoped semiconductor or insulator switch OFF configuration to high conductivity doped to provide a higher conductivity switch ON configuration or from high electrical conductivity to low conductivity switch ON to switch OFF . In one embodiment cation species may be used which become electron donors. Alternately anion species may be used which become electron acceptors. Furthermore the memristive material and the ion species are chosen such that the drift of the ions across the memristive material is possible but not too easy to ensure that the memristor remains in whatever state ON or OFF to which it is set for a reasonably long time perhaps many years at room temperature. The memristor is shown as a two terminal device and applying a sufficiently high voltage to the memristor causes both electron current and ion current to flow. When a low voltage is applied the flow of ions is negligible but electron flow exists allowing the memristor to hold its resistance state while reading the state value set in the memristor .

The memristive material may be less than 50 nm thick and is in many cases nanocrystalline nanoporous or amorphous. The mobility of the ion species in such nanostructured materials is much higher than in a bulk single crystal material since diffusion can occur through grain boundaries pores or through local structural imperfections in these materials. Also because the film is so thin little time is required to drift enough ions through the memristive material to substantially change its conductivity.

The memristive material may be contacted as shown in by platinum metal electrode . Contact of the electrode with the memristive material depletes the memristive material of free charge carriers so that the memristive material has a net charge that depends on the identity of the ions positive in the case of donors and negative in the case of acceptors. This contact region electrically resembles a Schottky barrier however since the memristor is structured at the nanometer scale structural and electrical properties are not averaged over the large distances over which the theory of semiconductor metal contacts has been developed.

The memristive material is in some embodiments a weakly ionic conductor. If the mobility of ionized species in a lattice is very high so is the diffusion constant. In some embodiments the memristor is expected to stay in a particular state ON or OFF for an amount of time that may range from a fraction of a second to years depending on the application. Thus the diffusion constant for the memristor should be in an embodiment low enough to ensure the desired level of stability to avoid inadvertently turning the memristor from ON to OFF or vice versa via ionized species diffusion rather than by intentionally setting the state of the memristor with an electrical field. Therefore the memristive material may be a weakly ionic conductor one in which ion mobility and thus the diffusion constant is small enough to ensure the stability of the ON or OFF state of the memristor for as long as necessary under the desired conditions e.g. the memristor does not change state because of diffusion of the ions .

In an embodiment of the memristor shown in the memristive material is TiO and the ion source is TiO. The formula TiOindicates that the titanium dioxide has a small deficit of oxygen atoms in the crystal structure the sites where the missing oxygen atoms would be are positively charged vacancies. The ionic species in this case is an oxygen vacancy . The oxygen vacancies act as electron donors. When an electric field is applied the oxygen vacancies drift changing the resistance of the titanium dioxide memristive material . Thus the resistance of the memristive material depends on how much charge has been passed through the memristive material in a particular direction which is reversible by changing the direction of current. More specifically when the voltage source is used to apply a sufficiently large voltage to the memristor the oxygen vacancies tend to form an ion conducting channel under the nanopore . Furthermore the ion conducting channel has a diameter substantially the same as the diameter of the nanopore . The ion conducting channel provides a means for electron flow between the electrodes and .

In other embodiments the memristive material may be one of the nitrides e.g. AlN GaN etc. phosphates e.g. InP etc. sulfides e.g. CuS and the ions may be N vacancies P vacancies and S vacancies.

As can be seen in in which a sufficient switching voltage has not been applied to the memristor the ion conducting channel terminates short of the graphene layer leaving a gap . The gap presents a high barrier to movement of electrons between the electrodes and resulting in an OFF non conducting state. To establish a complete ion conducting channel a sufficient switching voltage is applied to the memristor . The result is shown in in which ion conducting channel now extends from the bottom electrode to just beneath the graphene layer thereby eliminating the gap and removing the barrier to the flow of electrons. As shown in the memristor with the complete ion conducting channel is in the ON conducting state. Furthermore the memristor because of its memristive function remains in the ON state until an opposing switching voltage is applied to the memristor or until a sufficient time elapses on the order of years . Thus when power is removed from the memristor the memristor remembers its resistance value and remains in this condition.

