---

title: Flexible transoral endoscopic gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device and method
abstract: A transoral gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device has sufficient flexibility and dimension to be passed through the mouth, throat, and esophagus of a patient into the patient's stomach. The device includes a first member and a second member hingedly coupled to the first member. The first and second members are configured to flex in a direction to follow the esophageal path into the stomach and to be substantially rigid when forming the restored gastroesophageal flap valve.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09526500&OS=09526500&RS=09526500
owner: ENDOGASTRIC SOLUTIONS, INC.
number: 09526500
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100831
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 893 549 filed on Aug. 15 2001 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 001 666 filed on Nov. 30 2004 which is related to application Ser. No. 11 001 681 filed on Nov. 30 2004. The entire disclosures of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to devices for treating gastroesophageal reflux disease. The present invention more particularly relates to such devices which are flexible enough for passage into the stomach while being capable of being made selectively rigid for forming a gastroesophageal flap.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD is a chronic condition caused by the failure of the anti reflux barrier located at the gastroesophageal junction to keep the contents of the stomach from splashing into the esophagus. The splashing is known as gastroesophageal reflux. The stomach acid is designed to digest meat and will digest esophageal tissue when persistently splashed into the esophagus.

A principal reason for regurgitation associated with GERD is the mechanical failure of a deteriorated gastroesophageal flap to close and seal against high pressure in the stomach. Due to reasons including lifestyle a Grade I normal gastroesophageal flap may deteriorate into a malfunctioning Grade III or absent valve Grade IV gastroesophageal flap. With a deteriorated gastroesophageal flap the stomach contents are more likely to be regurgitated into the esophagus the mouth and even the lungs. The regurgitation is referred to as heartburn because the most common symptom is a burning discomfort in the chest under the breastbone. Burning discomfort in the chest and regurgitation burping up of sour tasting gastric juice into the mouth are classic symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease GERD . When stomach acid is regurgitated into the esophagus it is usually cleared quickly by esophageal contractions. Heartburn backwashing of stomach acid and bile onto the esophagus results when stomach acid is frequently regurgitated into the esophagus and the esophageal wall is inflamed.

Complications develop for some people who have GERD. Esophagitis inflammation of the esophagus with erosions and ulcerations breaks in the lining of the esophagus can occur from repeated and prolonged acid exposure. If these breaks are deep bleeding or scarring of the esophagus with formation of a stricture narrowing of the esophagus can occur. If the esophagus narrows significantly then food sticks in the esophagus and the symptom is known as dysphagia. GERD has been shown to be one of the most important risk factors for the development of esophageal adenocarcinoma. In a subset of people who have severe GERD if acid exposure continues the injured squamous lining is replaced by a precancerous lining called Barrett s Esophagus in which a cancerous esophageal adenocarcinoma can develop.

Other complications of GERD may not appear to be related to esophageal disease at all. Some people with GERD may develop recurrent pneumonia lung infection asthma wheezing or a chronic cough from acid backing up into the esophagus and all the way up through the upper esophageal sphincter into the lungs. In many instances this occurs at night while the person is in a supine position and sleeping. Occasionally a person with severe GERD will be awakened from sleep with a choking sensation. Hoarseness can also occur due to acid reaching the vocal cords causing a chronic inflammation or injury.

GERD never improves without intervention. Life style changes combined with both medical and surgical treatments exist for GERD. Medical therapies include antacids and proton pump inhibitors. However the medical therapies only mask the reflux. Patients still get reflux and perhaps emphysema because of particles refluxed into the lungs. Barrett s esophagus results in about 10 of the GERD cases. The esophageal epithelium changes into tissue that tends to become cancerous from repeated acid washing despite the medication.

Several open laparotomy and laproscopic surgical procedures are available for treating GERD. One surgical approach is the Nissen fundoplication. The Nissen approach typically involves a 360 wrap of the fundus around the gastroesophageal junction. The procedure has a high incidence of postoperative complications. The Nissen approach creates a 360 moveable flap without a fixed portion. Hence Nissen does not restore the normal movable flap. The patient cannot burp because the fundus was used to make the repair and may frequently experience dysphagia. Another surgical approach to treating GERD is the Belsey Mark IV Belsey fundoplication. The Belsey procedure involves creating a valve by suturing a portion of the stomach to an anterior surface of the esophagus. It reduces some of the postoperative complications encountered with the Nissen fundoplication but still does not restore the normal movable flap. None of these procedures fully restores the normal anatomical anatomy or produces a normally functioning gastroesophageal junction. Another surgical approach is the Hill repair. In the Hill repair the gastroesophageal junction is anchored to the posterior abdominal areas and a 180 valve is created by a system of sutures. The Hill procedure restores the moveable flap the cardiac notch and the Angle of His. However all of these surgical procedures are very invasive regardless of whether done as a laproscopic or an open procedure.

New less surgically invasive approaches to treating GERD involve transoral endoscopic procedures. One procedure contemplates a machine device with robotic arms that is inserted transorally into the stomach. While observing through an endoscope an endoscopist guides the machine within the stomach to engage a portion of the fundus with a corkscrew like device on one arm. The arm then pulls on the engaged portion to create a fold of tissue or radial plication at the gastroesophageal junction. Another arm of the machine pinches the excess tissue together and fastens the excess tissue with one pre tied implant. This procedure does not restore normal anatomy. The fold created does not have anything in common with a valve. In fact the direction of the radial fold prevents the fold or plication from acting as a flap of a valve.

Another transoral procedure contemplates making a fold of fundus tissue near the deteriorated gastroesophageal flap to recreate the lower esophageal sphincter LES . The procedure requires placing multiple U shaped tissue clips around the folded fundus to hold it in shape and in place.

This and the previously discussed procedure are both highly dependent on the skill experience aggressiveness and courage of the endoscopist. In addition these and other procedures may involve esophageal tissue in the repair. Esophageal tissue is fragile and weak. Involvement of esophageal tissue in the repair of a gastroesophageal flap valve poses unnecessary risks to the patient.

A new and improved device and method for restoration of a gastroesophageal flap valve is fully disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 790 214 issued Sep. 14 2004 for TRANSORAL ENDOSCOPIC GASTROESOPHAGEAL FLAP VALVE RESTORATION DEVICE ASSEMBLY SYSTEM AND METHOD which patent is assigned to the assignee of this invention and is incorporated herein by reference. That apparatus and method provides transoral endoscopic gastroesophageal flap valve restoration. A longitudinal member arranged for transoral placement into a stomach carries a tissue shaper that non invasively grips and shapes stomach tissue. A tissue fixation device is then deployed to maintain the shaped stomach tissue in a shape approximating a gastroesophageal flap.

Whenever stomach tissue is to be transorally shaped as for example by the improved device last mentioned above it is necessary to feed the device down the esophageal passage including the mouth throat and esophagus and into the stomach. Unfortunately the throat and esophagus are capable of expanding to only a diameter of about two centimeters 2 cm without damage. Further the back of throat defines a radius of approximately only 4.4 cm in the average adult. Hence for any kind of device to be guided down into the stomach the device must have a maximum perimeter of no more than about 6.28 cm 2 cm and be flexible enough to bend through the radius of 4.4 cm defined by the back of the throat. While being flexible enough to travel down the throat and esophagus the device must also be rigid enough to shape the stomach tissue necessary to form the gastroesophageal flap. The present invention addresses these issues.

The invention provides a transoral gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device comprising a first member and a second member hingedly coupled to the first member. The first and second members are arranged for esophageal passage into a stomach to receive stomach tissue there between and to form a flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve. The first and second members are configured to flex in a direction to follow the esophageal path into the stomach and to be substantially rigid when receiving the stomach tissue there between to form the flap of the gastroesophageal flap valve.

The invention further provides an assembly for restoring a gastroesophageal flap valve comprising a longitudinal member having an end arranged for placement in a stomach and a transoral gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device carried at the end of the longitudinal member including a first member and a second member hingedly coupled to the first member. The first and second members are arranged for esophageal passage into a stomach to receive stomach tissue there between and to form a flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve. The first and second members are also configured to flex in a direction to follow the esophageal path into the stomach but to also be substantially rigid when receiving the stomach tissue there between and forming the flap of the gastroesophageal flap valve.

According to another embodiment the invention provides a transoral gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device that is selectively flexible during mouth throat and esophagus passage into a stomach and selectively comparatively rigid during folding of stomach tissue into a restored gastroesophageal flap.

The invention further provides a method of restoring a gastroesophageal flap valve. The method comprises providing a transoral gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device comprising a first member and a second member hingedly coupled to the first member the first and second members being flexible for esophageal passage into a stomach and substantially rigid to receive stomach tissue there between to form a flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve when in a second orientation. The method further comprises feeding the device down the esophagus into the stomach with the device in a flexible condition rendering the device substantially rigid and pulling stomach tissue between the first and second members to form the flap of the gastroesophageal flap valve.

The invention still further provides a method of restoring a gastroesophageal flap valve comprising the steps of providing a transoral gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device arranged for esophageal passage into a stomach when in a substantially flexible condition and to receive stomach tissue to form a flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve when in a substantially rigid condition. The method further comprises feeding the device down the esophagus into the stomach with the device in the substantially flexible condition rendering the device into the substantially rigid condition and pulling stomach tissue into the device to form the flap of the gastroesophageal flap valve.

The esophageal tract is controlled by an upper esophageal sphincter UES in the neck near the mouth for swallowing and by the LES and the GEFV at the stomach. The normal anti reflux barrier is primarily formed by the LES and the GEFV acting in concert to allow food and liquid to enter the stomach and to considerably resist reflux of stomach contents into the esophagus past the gastroesophageal tissue junction . Tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal tissue junction is generally considered part of the stomach because the tissue protected from stomach acid by its own protective mechanisms. Tissue oral of the gastroesophageal junction is generally considered part of the esophagus and it is not protected from injury by prolonged exposure to stomach acid. At the gastroesophageal junction the juncture of the stomach and esophageal tissues form a zigzag line which is sometimes referred to as the Z line. For the purposes of these specifications including the claims stomach means the tissue aboral of the gastroesophageal junction .

Referring now to it illustrates a device embodying the present invention being fed through the mouth throat and esophagus of a patient . The side view illustrated in illustrates the obstacles involved in feeding a transoral gastroesophageal flap valve restoration device into the stomach through the esophageal passage including the mouth throat and esophagus . As may be noted in the back of the throat makes a 90 turn in the esophageal passage. The radius of that turn in most adult patients will be on the order of 44 mm. The length of the arc of the 90 turn is on the order of 6.75 cm. The diameter of the throat is on the order of 2 cm. The esophageal passageway to the stomach maintains or may be able to maintain a diameter of 2 cm. As a result a device to be fed through the mouth and down the throat and esophagus must have a maximum transverse perimeter on the order of 6.28 cm 2 cm or less.

In addition to the restraints on the maximum transverse perimeter the device must be able to negotiate the 90 turn in the back of the throat. Still further in order to restore a gastroesophageal flap valve the flap must be of sufficient length so as to close the esophagus. Hence the fold is preferably for example 3 cm in length or greater. In order to form a fold of 3 cm or greater a device having a length of 6 cm or greater would be required. Obviously a rigid device 6 cm in length would have a difficult time in negotiating the 90 turn in the back of the throat.

Accordingly the gastroesophageal flap valve restoration devices disclosed herein representing various embodiments of the present invention are capable of navigating the 90 turn in the back of the throat without damaging mouth throat or esophageal tissue. As will be seen here in each of the embodiments the devices are dimensioned to follow the esophageal path and configured to flex in a direction to follow the esophageal path while also being configured to be substantially rigid when necessary in forming a restored flap of a gastroesophageal flap valve.

The device according to one embodiment of the present invention is shown in . The device is carried by a longitudinal member which feeds the device down the esophageal passage into the stomach. The device includes a first member or body and a second member or arm .

The arm is hingedly coupled to the body by a pulley . As a result the arm is arranged for reciprocal movement with respect to the body . When the device is being fed down the esophageal passage the arm may be rendered to be substantially inline with the body as may be seen in .

To render the body flexible for bending around the 90 turn in the back of the throat as illustrated in the body includes a plurality of slots comprising a first plurality of slots and a second plurality of slots . The first plurality of slots are wider in dimension than the second plurality of slots . As a result the body is capable of bending as illustrated in for negotiating the 90 turn in the back of the throat.

To lend further flexibility to the device the arm is also rendered flexible during the passage down the esophageal passageway. To that end it will be noted in that the arm has an arcuate cross section . The concave side of the arm is adjacent the first plurality of slots when the arm is in a substantially closed position as illustrated in . The arcuate cross section renders the arm substantially rigid with respect to forces applied to the arm in a direction against the concave side of the arcuate configuration . However the arm will be substantially flexible to forces applied in direction substantially opposite that of direction . The effect on the arcuate configuration by forces applied in the direction may be seen in . The forces applied in the direction will tend to flex the arm and widen the arcuate configuration . Hence the arm imposes a greater resistance to forces applied in direction than to forces applied in direction . Hence as may be noted in forces applied to the arm as it negotiates the 90 turn will be in the general direction of the direction . As a result the arm is also capable of flexing for following the esophageal passageway through the throat and down the esophagus .

Referring now to it will be seen that the device has been fed down the esophagus to a position aboral of the gastroesophageal junction or Z line . Stomach tissue has been pulled into the device by a tissue puller . Further the arm has been closed relative to the body to receive the stomach tissue to receive stomach tissue between the body and the arm . The body and arm along with the tissue puller creates a fold of stomach tissue aboral of the Z line . Once fasteners not shown are driven through the fold the fold is maintained to form a restored gastroesophageal flap valve when the device is removed from the stomach. Suitable fasteners and stomach pullers are described for example in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 783 717 filed Feb. 20 2004 for TISSUE FIXATION DEVICES AND A TRANSORAL ENDOSCOPIC GASTROESOPHAGEAL FLAP VALVE RESTORATION DEVICE AND ASSEMBLY USING SAME which application is assigned to the assignee of the present invention and incorporated herein in its entirety.

While forming the flap in the stomach tissue the device is rendered substantially rigid. The rigidity of the device is provided by rigidity in both the body and the arm . More specifically because the second set of slots are relatively narrow they will close when the body is straightened by forces applied to it by the stomach tissue folding process and by a compression assembly to be described hereinafter.

As will also be described hereinafter the pulley is a single pulley of sufficient diameter to provide a mechanical advantage enclosing arm on the body to enable the stomach tissue to be folded into the flap . A pulley of such dimension is rendered possible by a single hinged connection of the arm to the body by the pulley . This will be seen more particularly hereinafter.

Referring now to it is a plan view of the tip end of the arm according to a further embodiment of the present invention. Here it may be seen that the arm has a longitudinal dimension and a transverse dimension . To render the device of further reduced dimension during passage through the esophageal passage it will be noted in that the tip end of the arm includes a hinge . The hinge may be a living hinge for example but other forms of hinge structures may also be employed. The hinge permitted folding of the tip end to reduce the transverse dimension of the tip end of the arm .

Referring now to it shows another embodiment of the present invention. The device of denoted by reference character like device includes a body and an arm . The arm is hingedly coupled to the body by for example a pulley . As will be noted in the body also includes a first plurality of slots and a second plurality of slots . The first plurality of slots as in the previous embodiment are wider then the second plurality of slots . The slots and render the body flexible during esophageal passage into the stomach of the device and rigidity of the body during restoration of a gastroesophageal flap valve. The arm is also flexible during esophageal passage of the device but rigid during the formation of a restored gastroesophageal flap valve. To that end it will be noted that the arm comprises a plurality of links and . Link is hingedly coupled to the body at the pulley and is also hingedly coupled to link by a hinge . The hinge includes a pin confined within a slot which limits the pivotal movement between link and link .As shown in the arm is positioned radially outwardly relative to the outer tubular surface of the elongated member and is pivotable 180 relative to the elongated tubular member .

Similarly link is hingedly coupled to link by another hinge . It also includes a pin which limits the pivotal movement between the link and the link .

When the device is in the process of forming a restored gastroesophageal flap valve the links and are locked so as to be substantially inline as shown in . However when the device is fed down the esophageal passage the hinges and and the pulley permit the arm to be flexible and conform to the path of the esophageal passage as a device passes through the throat from the mouth to the esophagus. Once the device is within the stomach and forming a flap as generally shown for example in the links and will be locked so as to be rigid for forming the fold in the stomach tissue. With further reference to the distal end of the arm is widened to form wing members to permit broad surface contact with the stomach tissue as the gastroesophageal flap is restored. This wing member also accommodates openings and . The openings and provide tissue reinforcement as fasteners are driven through the restored gastroesophageal flap in tissue areas defined by the openings and .

As will also be noted in the device permits an endoscope to pass through the body to permit the procedure to be viewed by the medical personnel. As will be seen hereinafter the device allows the endoscope to be passed there through while maintaining a restricted transverse maximum perimeter to permit the device to be fed down the esophageal passageway into the stomach. As will also be noted in the fold is being restored aboral of the Z line .

Referring now to it is a partial perspective side view of another device A illustrating a further embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with this embodiment the body of the device A includes the pulley and a control cable . The control cable is at least partially wrapped around the pulley to form a pair of control extensions and . The control extensions and are confined within guide tubes and respectively which serve to maintain the cable under tension. It will also be noted that the cable and its control extensions and extend along the longitudinal dimension of the body adjacent to the second and narrower set of slots .

When a force is imparted to the control cable to pivot arm pivots for forming the stomach tissue flap. The arm is coupled to the body by a single hinge formed by the pulley .

Referring now to it is a partial perspective side view in cross section of a further device A illustrating a further embodiment of the present invention. In accordance with this embodiment the body of the device B includes a compression assembly which selectively renders the body substantially rigid. The compression assembly includes the pulley and the control cable . Again the control cable is at least partially wrapped around the pulley to form a pair of control extensions and . The control extensions and are confined within guide tubes and respectively. It will also be noted that the cable and its control extensions and extend along the longitudinal dimension of the body adjacent to the second and narrower set of slots . The guide tubes and abut against stop .

When the device is fed down the esophageal passageway the body is flexible and non compressed. However when the device B is within the stomach aboral of the Z line and ready to be used for forming a restored gastroesophageal flap valve the device is rendered substantially rigid. When a force is imparted to the control cable to pivot arm for forming the stomach tissue fold the body of the device is also placed under compression from the pulley to the stops to ensure closing of the narrow slots and promote rigidity of the body of the device B.

As also may be noted in the arm is coupled to the body by a single hinge thus requiring only a single pulley . This single hinge may be more readily seen in .

As may be seen in the arm the body and the pulley are held together by a pivot pin . The arm pulley and body are held together on the pivot pin by a locking pin .

As may be further noted in the arm includes a slot which is received by flanges and of the pulley . The flanges extend substantially parallel to each other across the surface of the pulley . The slot of the arm is also received by the pivot pin as shown.

The foregoing structure allows the connection of the arm and the body to be dismantled if necessary. The dismantling of the connection between the arm and the body may be effected by simply pulling the locking pin .

Referring now to it shows a cross section of the device illustrating its maximum transverse perimeter . In it will be noted that the body includes a passageway to permit the endoscope to pass there through. The passageway may have a diameter of for example 11 mm.

Also illustrated in is the pulley . Because only one hinged connection utilized between the arm and body a single pulley is required. Since a single pulley is required the pulley may have a diameter sufficient to provide a mechanical advantage for imparting reciprocating movement to the arm relative to the body through the pulling of the control cable . Hence even though the device makes provision for an endo scope to be passed there through and a pulley of sufficient diameter to provide a mechanical advantage for operating the arm the device is still able to maintain a maximum perimeter which is no greater than about 6.28 cm. Hence the device has a small enough maximum transverse perimeter to be passed down the esophageal passage including the mouth throat and esophagus of a patient.

To provide a sufficient mechanical advantage the pulley may have a diameter greater than about 7 mm. Preferably the pulley has a diameter of about 10 mm.

Referring now to they show another arm according to an embodiment of the present invention which may be employed in the device of and . The arm may be hingedly coupled to the body by a slot which may slide over the flanges and of the pulley .

The arm is configured to be flexible during esophageal passage into the stomach of the device and rigid during restoration of a gastroesophageal flap valve. To that end it will be noted that the arm comprises a plurality of links and . Link may be hingedly coupled to the body at the pulley and is also hingedly coupled to link by a hinge . The hinge includes a pin . Similarly link is hingedly coupled to link by another hinge . It also includes a pin .

When the device is fed down the esophageal passage the hinges and and the pulley permit the arm to be flexible and bent as shown in to conform to the path of the esophageal passage as the device passes through the throat from the mouth to the esophagus. Once the device is within the stomach and forming a gastroesophageal flap the links and will be locked to render the arm rigid and substantially straight for forming the fold in the stomach tissue as shown in .

With further reference to it may be noted that the distal end of the arm includes a center slit and is widened to permit broad surface contact with the stomach tissue as the gastroesophageal flap is restored. This widening also accommodates openings and . The openings and provide tissue reinforcement as fasteners are driven through the restored gastroesophageal flap in tissue areas defined by the openings and .

In view of the widened nature of the distal end of the arm the distal end is preferably comprised of a flexible material which is preformed in a somewhat closed arcuate configuration to reduce the distal end cross section for passage through the esophageal passage. However due to the flexible nature of the material used to form the arm and the central slit the wings and formed by the slit will readily fan out and make broad contact with the tissue when the tissue is contacted for forming the gastroesophageal flap.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described modifications may be made and it is therefore intended in the appended claims to cover all such changes and modifications which fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

