---

title: Venue application for mobile station position estimation
abstract: Disclosed is a method, and a system to perform the method, comprising receiving venue infrastructure information at an entity hosted on a mobile station, and selectively providing a portion of the venue infrastructure information to one or more other entities hosted on the mobile station based, at least in part, on a privilege level attributed to the mobile station or a user associated with the mobile station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290511&OS=08290511&RS=08290511
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08290511
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 247 873 entitled Venue Map Applications filed on Oct. 1 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 322 559 entitled Managed Indoor LBS in Sensitive Deployment Venues filed on Apr. 9 2010 which are assigned to the assignee hereof and which is expressly incorporated herein by reference.

Subject matter disclosed herein relates to a venue application for use in mobile station position estimation.

The Global Positioning System GPS and other like satellite positioning systems have enabled navigation services for mobile handsets in outdoor environments. Since satellite signals may not be reliably received and or acquired in an indoor environment different techniques may be employed to enable navigation services. For example mobile stations can typically obtain a position fix by measuring ranges to three or more terrestrial wireless access points which are positioned at known locations. Such ranges may be measured for example by obtaining a MAC ID address from signals received from such access points and obtaining range measurements to the access points by measuring one or more characteristics of signals received from such access points such as for example signal strength and or round trip delay.

In some implementations an indoor navigation system may provide a digital electronic map to mobile stations upon entry to a particular indoor area. Such a map may show indoor features such as doors hallways entry ways walls etc. points of interest such as bathrooms pay phones room names stores etc. Such a digital electronic map may be stored at a server to be accessible by a mobile station through selection of a universal resource locator URL for example. By obtaining and displaying such a map a mobile station may overlay a current location of the mobile station and user over the displayed map to provide the user with additional context. Using map information indicating routing constraints a mobile station may also apply location estimates to estimating a trajectory of the mobile station in an indoor area subject to the routing constraints.

In one particular implementation venue infrastructure information is received at an entity hosted on a mobile station. Portions of the venue infrastructure information are selectively provided to one or more other entities hosted on the mobile station based at least in part on a privilege level attributed to the mobile station or user associated with the mobile station. It should be understood however that this is merely an example implementation and that claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

To enable a mobile station to provide location services in an indoor area e.g. location estimation trajectory estimation navigation etc. a venue operator may provide mobile stations with venue infrastructure information such as for example venue map information e.g. a digital map with associated metadata such as points of interest information descriptive of locations of radio frequency RF beacon transmitters e.g. wireless access points or their propagation signatures heatmap or radiomap data associating expected received signal characteristics with locations in a venue information descriptive of routeability graphs of feasible navigable areas just to name a few examples. In particular implementations a party providing venue infrastructure information such as a venue operator may wish to control and or restrict access to such venue map and or associated infrastructure information such as locations of RF beacon transmitters . For example such a venue operator may wish to restrict access in accordance with a security policy and or monetization model. Here a mobile station may host an entity to restrict such access. In one example a venue operator may provide a venue secured application that is to be hosted on a mobile station to access venue map and or associated infrastructure information from a location server through a wireless communication link. In this context a venue operator may include any one of several parties such as for example an owner of a business government agency proprietor party contracted to provide management of a facility school just to name a few examples. In another example implementation a system service e.g. a location engine system service hosted on a mobile station may restrict access to venue infrastructure information.

In a particular example a venue operator may make a venue secured application available for use by mobile stations travelling in an area of interest to the venue operator. In one implementation a venue secured application may be downloaded and or launched to a mobile station using any one of several well known techniques such as selection of a URL from the mobile station. The launched venue secured application may then communicate with a venue server to receive venue infrastructure information. In a particular implementation a venue secured application may control restrict or prevent dissemination of information received from such a venue server to other entities hosted on the mobile station such as applications system services e.g. a location engine service just to name a few examples. In one implementation a location engine service may be capable of performing one or more functions in support of location services such as measuring ranges to RF beacon transmitters from signal characteristics estimating locations of the mobile station and or estimating a trajectory over feasible paths in a digital map just to name a few examples. In this particular example the venue secured application hosted on a mobile station may provide different levels of access to venue map and or infrastructure information based for example on a privilege level attributed to a mobile station and or associated user of the mobile station and or privilege levels of other applications hosted on the mobile station. As discussed below such a privilege level may be determined based one or more criteria such as for example according to a monetization and or subscription model customer loyalty e.g. quantified by purchase points classification of a role within an enterprise or organization and or other particular attributes of a user e.g. age gender birth date place of residence employer etc. just to name a few example criteria that may be used in mapping a particular privilege level to a mobile station and or user of such a mobile station. In a particular example implementation such a privilege level may be associated with a particular application hosted on the mobile device.

While particular implementations are directed to providing venue infrastructure information to an entity hosted on a mobile station from a venue operator such venue infrastructure information may be provided by any one of several different parties such as for example a service provider not tied to any particular vendor equipment manufacturer information technology contractor map aggregator peer device third party intermediary just to name a few examples.

In an aspect mobile station may obtain one or more measurements from one or more signals received from transmitters at one or more of wireless access points and . Mobile station may gather propagation delay information or signal strength information through communication with one or more of wireless access points and . Using such gathered information mobile station may compute an estimate for the position of mobile station through trilateration based at least in part on timing calibration parameters such as round trip delay or code phase detections signal strength estimates or other measurements obtained through communication with one or more of wireless access points or and further based at least in part on known or reported locations of wireless access points or .

As an alternative to trilateration a mobile station may associate characteristics of received acquired signals with expected signal characteristics at different location points of a venue in heatmap or radiomap data to estimate a location of the mobile station using well known techniques. Such expected signal characteristics may include for example receive signal strength and or round trip delay associated with MAC addresses of transmitters transmitting the received signals.

In an aspect one or more of wireless access points and may further couple mobile station to one or more other systems and networks such as for example a public switched telephone network PSTN a local area network LAN and or a wide area network such as the Internet to name merely a few examples. For the example depicted in mobile station may communicate with a venue server through a network by way of transmitter . In addition mobile station may communicate with venue server through a LAN or a wide area network. As such venue server may be accessible by mobile station using well known Internet protocols and need not be physically located at any particular venue. In a particular implementation venue server may communicate with mobile stations to provide information to assist mobile stations in navigation operations while mobile stations located in a particular venue area being covered by venue server . Such a venue area may comprise for example an indoor environment such as an office building airport school museum shopping mall just to name a few examples. Information provided to such mobile stations may include for example digital venue maps that may be displayed on a mobile station locations of points of interest overlaid on such venue maps information to assist mobile stations in computing position estimates including for example known locations of transmitters e.g. transmitters on wireless access points identification information associated with such transmitters e.g. MAC addresses that may be determined from acquisition of signals transmitted by such transmitters and or other information enabling a mobile station to obtain measurements of ranges to transmitters at known locations just to provide a few examples.

In a particular implementation and as pointed out above a venue secured application hosted on a mobile station may control and or restrict dissemination of venue infrastructure information to other entities e.g. applications and system services hosted on the mobile station such as couponing application or a location engine service. Here such a location engine service may be capable of performing one or more functions in support of location services such as measuring ranges to RF beacon transmitters from signal characteristics and estimating locations of the mobile station based at least in part on the measured ranges and known locations of the RF beacon transmitters. In an alternative implementation a location engine service or other application may further process estimated locations to estimate a trajectory over feasible paths in a digital map such as digital map of an indoor venue. In a particular implementation such feasible paths may be determined a priori according to a routability graph expressed as metadata in a digital map stored in an electronic medium for example.

In an aspect locations of one or more wireless transmitters in a wireless system such as wireless network may be known at a mobile station such as mobile station . For example such locations may be forwarded to mobile station by venue server with the locations provided by the transmitters themselves. Alternatively heatmap or radiomap information including expected signal characteristics e.g. received signal strength or round trip delay at specific locations in an area of interest may be forwarded to mobile station .

Although examples described herein discuss measuring ranges between transmitting devices and receiving devices based at least in part on signal strength the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Measuring ranges between transmitting devices and receiving devices based at least in part on signal strength is merely one example technique for estimating and or measuring such ranges. Other techniques may include for example measuring and or estimating such ranges based at least in part on signal phase and or signal timing. Again the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects. Also as discussed above a location of a mobile station may also be estimated by matching received signal characteristics with signatures in heatmap or radiomap data associated with specific locations.

The one or more application processors of mobile station may host an operating system such as Android by Google Inc. iOS by Apple Inc. PNP BREW by Qualcomm Inc. or Windows Phone by Microsoft Inc. just to name a few examples. In addition the one or more application processors may host a location engine that performs one or more functions including for example computing estimates of a current location of mobile station e.g. by obtaining a position fix by trilateration to terrestrial transmitters and or obtaining position fix from a global navigation satellite system GNSS such as GPS estimating a trajectory of mobile station over a venue map e.g. using a Kalman filter extended Kalman filter particle filter according to a predetermined routeability graph etc. .

In a particular example location engine may be capable of performing one or more functions in support of location services such as measuring ranges to RF beacon transmitters based on received signal characteristics estimating locations of the mobile station determining a building floor where the mobile station is located and or estimating a trajectory over feasible paths in a digital map. As discussed below instead of location engine being hosted on an application processor in an alternative implementation a location engine service may be hosted at least in part on a modem processor not shown .

Operating system and location engine communicate with applications and via an application platform application programming interface API . In a particular implementation application platform API may define common variables routines data structures object classes and or protocols enabling applications e.g. applications and to communicate with hardware elements and platform services e.g. location services of mobile station . In a particular implementation an application as referred to herein relates to a hosted entity that provides functionality to a mobile station for performing specific tasks as perceived by a user. For example as discussed above an application may communicate with an operating system and or other entities though an API such as application platform API . Some applications may be selectively installed or removed using well known techniques. A system service as referred to herein relates to an entity hosted on a mobile station as a resource to other entities e.g. applications . In the example implementation of a location engine comprises a system service which may be accessible by one or more applications through application platform API . In a particular implementation a system service may interact with one or more hardware elements to provide data to be accessible by applications through an API. Another example of a system service may comprise an inertial navigation systems service that communicates with inertial sensors to process sensor measurements to provide data for use by applications. It should be understood however that these are merely examples of a system service according to particular implementations and that claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In a particular implementation applications and may communicate with venue server through a wireless communication network as discussed above. In particular application comprises a venue secured application that communicates with venue server to obtain information to assist in providing location based services. In one implementation venue secured application may be downloaded and or launched to mobile station using any one of several well known techniques such as selection of a URL from mobile station . In another example venue license application may pre installed with mobile station at a factory. It should be understood however that these are merely examples of how a venue secured application may be installed and launched to a mobile station and claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

In one particular implementation venue secured application may push venue infrastructure information through application platform API to location engine as indicated by arrow . Such information may include information descriptive of locations of one or more RF beacon transmitters or a signal heatmap of expected signal characteristics of signals received from such RF beacon transmitters at specific locations in a venue. In a particular implementation where such RF beacon transmitters are provided by wireless access points to a communication network such information descriptive of locations of access points may be provided in a data structure that associates MAC addresses of such access points with information descriptive of the locations of the access points e.g. according to a local or global coordinate system . However this is merely an example of how a venue secured application may provide venue infrastructure information according to a particular implementation and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In one particular implementation a venue operator may receive revenue from mobile station users in exchange for providing location based services facilitated by venue server in communication with venue secured application . For example a venue operator may charge a one time fee from a mobile station user in exchange for being able to host the venue secured application on the mobile station. In one alternative a venue operator may allow installation of venue secured application for free allow basic service for free and charge a fee for premium service. In another alternative a venue operator may bill a fee to a mobile station user for each use of a location based service offered through venue secured application . In another implementation venue secured application may push advertising for display on mobile station .

In another implementation venue secured application may as a precondition to providing a location based service receive password information at a user interface. The password information may then be forwarded to venue server for authentication prior to providing a location based service. In an alternative implementation venue secured application may tender a digital certificate to venue server for initiating a secure session between venue secured application and venue server . It should be understood however that these are merely examples of how access to location based services may be controlled by a venue secured application and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

In a particular implementation venue secured application may control and or restrict dissemination of venue infrastructure information to other entities hosted on mobile station such as other applications and or location engine . In this regard venue secured application may act as an agent of venue server in controlling dissemination of information received from venue server to other entities hosted on mobile station such as other applications . In this particular example venue secured application and venue server may communicate over a secured channel using any one of several encryption techniques for example. Also venue secured application may provide different levels of access to venue map and or infrastructure information based for example on a privilege level associated with mobile station and or associated user of mobile station . In one implementation a particular privilege level may be determined based at least in part on whether a user associated with mobile station is a paid user employee customer guest manager just to name a few examples.

As discussed above a mobile station may estimate its position using trilateration by obtaining measurements to RF beacon transmitters e.g. access points with knowledge of locations of the RF beacon transmitters or matching received signal characteristics with heatmap or radiomap data. In one particular case venue secured application may receive from venue server venue map information and locations of RF beacon transmitters positioned in a particular area and allow location engine access to information descriptive of locations of RF beacon transmitters and venue map information. Accordingly location engine can obtain position estimates using through trilateration based on knowledge of locations of the RF beacon transmitters or application of received signal characteristics to heatmap data and apply the obtained position estimates to received venue map information to estimate a trajectory of mobile station in the indoor area. It should be noted that in this particular case venue secured application allows location engine to have complete access to locations of RF beacon transmitters or signal heatmap radiomap data and venue map information. In one particular implementation application platform API may include a special secure portion that facilitates communication between location engine and venue secured application . For example secure information in common variables defined by application platform API may be encrypted and be selectively de encrypted by venue secured application based upon whether other applications are to have access to such secure information. Here venue secured application may identify mobile station and or a user associated with mobile station as having a high or highest privilege level to have such complete access.

In another particular case venue secured application may allow location engine access to information descriptive of locations of RF beacon transmitters or signal heatmap radiomap data but not allow location engine access to venue map information as this information is to be maintained in privacy according to a policy. The venue secured application itself may perform trajectory estimation instead of location engine performing this function. In one implementation venue secured application may push a data structure to location engine through application platform API identifying RF beacon transmitters by MAC addresses e.g. in the case of access points and associating location information with such MAC addresses. Alternatively such MAC addresses may be associated with heatmap or radiomap data comprising expected signal characteristics received at particular locations in a venue from transmitters associated with the MAC addresses. Location engine may then use such knowledge of locations of the RF beacon transmitters to obtain position estimates e.g. using trilateration applying received signal characteristics to heatmap data as discussed above and venue secured application may perform trajectory estimation by applying position estimates obtained from location engine to venue map information that is privately maintained by venue secured application .

In yet another particular case venue secured application may not permit location engine to receive or access either venue map information or locations of RF beacon transmitters. Here location engine may still provide to venue secured application range measurements to RF beacon transmitters e.g. associated with MAC addresses of wireless access points providing such RF beacon transmitters based upon received signal strength round trip delay and or the like. Venue secured application may then use trilateration compute estimates of location of mobile station based upon such range measurements determined by location engine and locations of the associated RF beacon transmitters obtained from venue server . Venue secured application may then apply such estimates of location of mobile station to venue map information for estimating a trajectory of mobile station in an indoor area for example.

The above examples relate to control and or restriction of access to venue map information and or locations of RF beacon transmitters. In other implementations other types of information may be restricted and or controlled by a venue secured application such as for example information indicating points of interest granularity of venue map information etc.

In a particular implementation venue secured application may securely maintain and control access to information received from venue server using any one of several techniques. For example venue secured application may store associated application data in an encrypted format such as secure hash key encryption just as an example. Alternatively such application data may be stored in a compressed format with password protection where application knows the password. In yet another alternative access to such application data may be protected using secure hardware memory. It should be understood however that these are merely examples of how one application hosted on an API may securely maintain and control access to information according to particular implementations and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

While particular implementations discussed above are directed to controlling dissemination of venue infrastructure information at a venue secured application other implementations may control dissemination of such venue infrastructure information using a system service such as a location engine service. As discussed above such a system service may communicate with a venue server over a secured wireless link to receive venue infrastructure information and selectively disseminate such received venue infrastructure information to other entities hosted on the mobile device e.g. mapping applications etc. . Here such a system service may also maintain received venue infrastructure information in a secure manner and apply preconditions before disseminating the venue infrastructure information or rendering a service using same. For example as discussed above a system service may receive password information provided at a user interface and provide such password information to a venue server for authentication authorization. Alternatively the system service may tender a digital certificate to a venue server for establishing a secure session between the system service and the venue server. It should be understood however that this is merely an additional example of how an entity hosted on a mobile device may control access to location services and related information and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

To recap a particular implementation is a flow diagram of a process that may be performed by an entity hosted on a mobile station such as a venue secured application or system service according to an implementation. At step venue infrastructure information may be received from a venue server. As discussed above such venue infrastructure information may include for example venue map information e.g. a digital map with associated metadata such as points of interest information descriptive of locations of radio frequency RF beacon transmitters e.g. wireless access points or their propagation signatures information descriptive of routeability graphs of feasible navigable areas just to name a few examples. Additionally such venue infrastructure information may be received at a mobile station over a secure wireless link. At step portions of the received venue infrastructure information may be selectively provided to entities on the mobile station e.g. other applications system services etc. based at least in part on a privilege level attributed to the mobile station or a user associated with the mobile station. It should be understood however that this is merely an example implementation and that claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

As pointed out above different mobile stations may be provided with different levels of access based at least in part on different classifications of users associated with the different mobile stations and or a particular policy applied in controlling access to certain information. Here different access policies may apply based on particular individual users operating the mobile stations. For example different access policies may be applied based upon particular roles within an enterprise different levels of customer loyalty according to a loyalty classification whether access to a particular service has been paid for in advance etc. Here access to venue map and or infrastructure information may be tuned according to particular user attributes classifications etc. mapping to particular predetermined privilege levels and particular access policies being applied. In one implementation a venue secured application may use password authentication authorization to identifying specific users and or mobile stations that have an enhanced or higher privilege level. In another implementation mobile stations are configured with predefined credentials according to a certificate mechanism and based on user class.

In one particular application example an indoor environment served by a venue server may comprise a casino gaming floor. Here a venue secured application hosted on mobile stations may access a venue server operated by a casino through WLAN infrastructure. As discussed above such a venue secured application may further restrict dissemination of information obtained from the venue server to other entities on a mobile station based at least in part on a privilege level attributed to the mobile station. In a particular implementation such a privilege level may be defined at least in part by whether the mobile station is associated with or being used by a customer employee manager or casino executive.

In one particular implementation a privilege level of a customer may be further defined based at least in part on whether the customer is a preferred or VIP customer. For example a venue secured application hosted on a mobile station attributed to a customer incrementally affect or tune one or more qualities of a position engine based upon whether the customer is an ordinary customer preferred customer or VIP customer. Preferred or VIP customers for example may receive a higher quality position estimates than position estimates received by ordinary customers. Such higher quality position estimates may be achieved by applying additional resources to more accurate or precise position estimates including for example processing resources to perform map matching and or position filtering. Such additional resources may be applied for example by exposing unique interfaces to heterogeneous computing devices such as a graphics processing unit digital signal processor or multicore processor just to name a few examples. In another implementation in addition to a basic service offered to all customers preferred or VIP customers may receive venue map information descriptive of VIP areas.

In another particular application example a venue server may provide information to mobile stations to support location based services in an airport terminal area. In one aspect a venue secured application hosted on mobile stations associated with members of the general public may restrict dissemination of venue map and or other infrastructure description so as to exclude areas that are not accessible to the general public. A venue secured application hosted on mobile stations associated with airport employees on the other hand may permit dissemination of venue map and or other infrastructure description to include all areas of the airport terminal. While this is just one example of defining different privilege levels for employees and members of the public additional privilege levels may be attributed to different classes of users. For example a venue secured application may further define different privileges and hence different area restrictions on venue map and or other infrastructure description for TSA personnel airline personnel janitorial staff information technology personnel just to name a few examples.

In another aspect in addition to restricting dissemination of information received from a venue server to other entities hosted on a mobile station a venue secured application may affect how information is presented on a mobile station based at least in part on a user classification. For example if a user of a mobile station is a passenger a venue secured application hosted on the mobile station may highlight or emphasize particular points of interest such as for example pre boarding security ticketing gates eating establishments just to name a few examples.

In a particular implementation a mobile station at an airport may receive access to information provided by a venue server following authentication of the mobile station using any one of several authentication techniques. In addition to authentication a venue server operated by the airport or port authority may collect a fee from a user of the mobile station in exchange for access to venue map and or other infrastructure information.

As used herein the term access point is meant to include any wireless communication station and or device used to facilitate communication in a wireless communications system such as for example a wireless local area network although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. Similarly the term access point is meant to include a base station that may facilitate wireless communication in a cellular telephone network for example. In another aspect an access point may comprise a wireless local area network WLAN access point for example. Such a WLAN may comprise a network compatible with one or more versions of IEEE standard 802.11 in an aspect although the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. A WLAN access point may provide communication between one or more mobile stations and a network such as the Internet for example. In another example an access point may comprise a femtocell to provided access to a cellular network through a broadband connection such as for example a Digital Subscriber Line DSL cable or the like. In this context a femtocell may utilize or otherwise be compatible with various types of communication technology such as for example Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UTMS Long Term Evolution LTE Evolution Data Optimized or Evolution Data only EV DO Global System for Mobile communications GSM Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Code division multiple access CDMA 2000 or Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA just to name a few among many possible.

As used herein the term mobile station MS refers to a device that may from time to time have a position location that changes. The changes in position location may comprise changes to direction distance orientation etc. as a few examples. In particular examples a mobile station may comprise a cellular telephone wireless communication device user equipment laptop computer other personal communication system PCS device personal digital assistant PDA personal audio device PAD portable navigational device and or other portable communication devices. A mobile station may also comprise a processor and or computing platform adapted to perform functions controlled by machine readable instructions.

In an aspect of example mobile station one or more radio transceivers may be adapted to modulate an RF carrier signal with baseband information such as voice or data onto an RF carrier and demodulate a modulated RF carrier to obtain such baseband information. An antenna may be adapted to transmit a modulated RF carrier over a wireless communications link and receive a modulated RF carrier over a wireless communications link.

A baseband processor may be adapted to provide baseband information from a central processing unit CPU to transceiver for transmission over a wireless communications link. Here CPU may obtain such baseband information from an input device within a user interface . Baseband processor may also be adapted to provide baseband information from transceiver to CPU for transmission through an output device within user interface .

User interface may comprise a plurality of devices for inputting or outputting user information such as voice or data. Such devices may include by way of non limiting examples a keyboard a display screen a microphone and a speaker.

Transceiver may provide demodulated information to correlator . Correlator may be adapted to derive beacon related correlation functions from information relating to beacon signals provided by transceiver . This information may he used by mobile station to acquire wireless communications services for example from a wireless access point. Channel decoder may be adapted to decode channel symbols received from baseband processor into underlying source bits. In one example where channel symbols comprise convolutionally encoded symbols such a channel decoder may comprise a Viterbi decoder. In a second example where channel symbols comprise serial or parallel concatenations of convolutional codes channel decoder may comprise a turbo decoder.

A memory may be adapted to store machine readable instructions which may be executable to perform one or more of processes implementations or examples thereof which are described or suggested herein. CPU may access and execute such machine readable instructions thereby enabling mobile station to perform one or more of the processes implementations and or examples described and or suggested above. Mobile station may also comprise one or more sensors such as for example an accelerometer or a gyroscope. Of course mobile station is merely an example and the scope of claimed subject matter is not limited to the specific configuration of components and or functional units depicted.

The methodologies described herein may be implemented by various means depending upon applications according to particular examples. For example such methodologies may be implemented in hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof. In a hardware implementation for example a processing unit may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors electronic devices other devices units designed to perform the functions described herein and or combinations thereof.

Some portions of the detailed description included herein are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on binary digital signals stored within a memory of a specific apparatus or special purpose computing device or platform. In the context of this particular specification the term specific apparatus or the like includes a general purpose computer once it is programmed to perform particular operations pursuant to instructions from program software. Algorithmic descriptions or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the signal processing or related arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally is considered to be a self consistent sequence of operations or similar signal processing leading to a desired result. In this context operations or processing involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically although not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals as bits data values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. It should be understood however that all of these or similar terms are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout this specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to actions or processes of a specific apparatus such as a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device. In the context of this specification therefore a special purpose computer or a similar special purpose electronic computing device is capable of manipulating or transforming signals typically represented as physical electronic or magnetic quantities within memories registers or other information storage devices transmission devices or display devices of the special purpose computer or similar special purpose electronic computing device.

 Instructions as referred to herein relate to expressions which represent one or more logical operations. For example instructions may be machine readable by being interpretable by a machine for executing one or more operations on one or more data objects. However this is merely an example of instructions and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect. In another example instructions as referred to herein may relate to encoded commands which are executable by a processing circuit having a command set which includes the encoded commands. Such an instruction may be encoded in the form of a machine language understood by a processing circuit. Again these are merely examples of an instruction and claimed subject matter is not limited in this respect.

 Storage medium as referred to herein relates to media capable of maintaining expressions which are perceivable by one or more machines. For example a storage medium may comprise one or more storage devices for storing machine readable instructions and or information. Such storage devices may comprise any one of several media types including for example magnetic optical or semiconductor storage media. Such storage devices may also comprise any type of long term short term volatile or non volatile memory devices. However these are merely examples of a storage medium and claimed subject matter is not limited in these respects.

Wireless communication techniques described herein may be implemented using various wireless communication networks such as a wireless wide area network WWAN a wireless local area network WLAN a wireless personal area network WPAN and so on. The term network and system may be used interchangeably herein. A WWAN may be a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA network a Time Division Multiple Access TDMA network a Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA network an Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA network a Single Carrier Frequency Division Multiple Access SC FDMA network and so on. A CDMA network may implement one or more radio access technologies RATs such as cdma2000 Wideband CDMA W CDMA Time Division Synchronous Code Division Multiple Access TD SCDMA to name just a few radio technologies. Here cdma2000 may include technologies implemented according to IS 95 IS 2000 and IS 856 standards. A TDMA network may implement Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS or some other RAT. GSM and W CDMA are described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . Cdma2000 is described in documents from a consortium named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 . 3GPP and 3GPP2 documents are publicly available. A WLAN may include an IEEE 802.11x network and a WPAN may include a Bluetooth network an IEEE 802.15x for example. Wireless communication networks may include so called next generation technologies e.g. 4G such as for example Long Term Evolution LTE Advanced LTE WiMAX Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB and or the like.

The term or as used herein may include a variety of meanings that will depend at least in part upon the context in which it is used. Typically or if used to associate a list such as A B or C is intended to mean A B and C here used in the inclusive sense as well as A B or C here used in the exclusive sense. Reference throughout this specification to one example or an example means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the example is included in at least one example of claimed subject matter. Thus the appearances of the phrase in one example or an example in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same example. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in one or more examples. Examples described herein may include machines devices engines or apparatuses that operate using digital signals. Such signals may comprise electronic signals optical signals electromagnetic signals or any form of energy that provides information between locations.

While there has been illustrated and described what are presently considered to be example features it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various other modifications may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from claimed subject matter. Additionally many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation to the teachings of claimed subject matter without departing from the central concept described herein. Therefore it is intended that claimed subject matter not be limited to the particular examples disclosed but that such claimed subject matter may also include all aspects falling within the scope of the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

