---

title: Radar target detection process
abstract: A process is provided for analyzing a radar signal using CLEAN to identify an undetected target in sidelobes of a detected target. The process includes obtaining system impulse response data of a waveform for a point target having a signal data vector based on a convolution under conjugate transpose multiplied by a target amplitude vector plus a noise vector, estimating the target amplitude vector, and applying a CLEAN Deconvolver to remove the detected target from the data signal vector based on the estimate amplitude vector absent the detected target and an amplitude vector of an undetected target. The process further includes building a detected target vector with the amplitude estimate vector, setting to zero all elements of the detected target vector except at an initial time, and recomputing the amplitude estimate vector by a Reformulated CLEAN Detector.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08358233&OS=08358233&RS=08358233
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08358233
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100914
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 the benefit of priority from provisional application 61 277 185 with a filing date of Sep. 14 2009 is claimed for this non provisional application.

The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to improving range resolution of radar illuminated targets. In particular the invention enables the radar to detect and record data on a small target that could otherwise be obscured by larger targets.

The issue of range resolution has been has been an important part of radar design and research since the beginning of radar. Early designers of radar understood that using a short pulse for their radar allowed for separating closely spaced targets better than long pulses. However imparting sufficient energy on the target to ensure its detection required radar pulses be of a certain minimum length determined by the radar range equation and transmitter peak power. Hence the requirement to achieve energy on target often trumped the requirement to distinguish multiple targets.

The first major advance in the area of range resolution occurred with the development of pulse compression. Pulse compression is achieved by modulating the radar pulse and then processing it with a matched filter on receiver. For proper modulation of the transmitted pulse the response of the matched filter compresses the pulse to a width that can be reduced by the time bandwidth product of the modulated pulse. This enables detection of two identical amplitude targets that can be spaced closer by the time bandwidth product of the modulated pulse. Good modulation produces small sidelobes.

A matched filter response provides a linear rise across the span s extent. A pulse compression matched filter response to the modulated pulse exhibits a narrower extent across the span than for the un modulated with sidelobes disposed adjacent thereto. However sidelobes can interfere with the detection of small targets in the presence of large targets.

Under these circumstances one can observe that a closely spaced target of equal amplitude can easily be detected. However a target whose amplitude is no larger than the sidelobes cannot be reliably detected because the sidelobes interfere. Therefore pulse compression sidelobes can produce significant limitations on the ability to detect or distinguish two closely spaced targets when one of the targets has significantly smaller amplitude than the other target.

Conventional range resolution techniques yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide a process for analyzing a radar signal using CLEAN to identify an undetected target in sidelobes of a detected target. The process includes obtaining system impulse response data of a waveform for a point target having a signal data vector based on a convolution under conjugate transpose multiplied by a target amplitude vector plus a noise vector estimating the target amplitude vector and applying a CLEAN Deconvolver to remove the detected target from the data signal vector based on the estimate amplitude vector absent the detected target and an amplitude vector of an undetected target.

In additional exemplary embodiments the process further includes building a detected target vector with the amplitude estimate vector setting to zero all elements of the detected target vector except at an initial time and recomputing the amplitude estimate vector by a Reformulated CLEAN Detector.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

There have been many approaches to solve this problem with two major lines of attack. The first has been to find modulation techniques to reduce the sidelobes. The second has been to use filters other than matched filters to reduce the sidelobes. The former approach is greatly constrained by practical engineering limitations on signal generation.

Radar designers normally operate their transmitters in a saturated condition to maximize the energy in the pulse. This means that modulations schemes are limited to phase modulated schemes. The second line of attack is replacing the matched filter with a filter that compresses the pulse and produce lower sidelobes. Although such filters are feasible to design the matched filter is the optimum filter for detecting targets. Therefore other filters are suboptimal meaning that there causing a loss in detectability. Consequently practical mismatched filters still face limitations on their sidelobe performance.

Another technique applied to this problem is the CLEAN algorithm. The CLEAN algorithm was developed by astronomers to increase the resolution of photographs of stars being originally documented by J. A. H gbom Aperture Synthesis with a Non Regular Distribution of Interferometer Baselines v. 415 pp. 417 426.

CLEAN works by subtracting the point spread function PFS of the brightest star. The PFS is the response to a point source. For example the PFS can be the response of the image due to the finite resolution of optics. This procedure is repeated with the remaining brightest source until the remaining scene is at the noise floor or some other predefined criteria. The amplitude and position of each source is noted and represents the Cleaned image. In some cases the point sources are convolved with the PFS minus the sidelobes to produce the Cleaned image.

A number of reference papers have applied the CLEAN algorithm to radar imaging and detection for multiple closely spaced targets. These include 

These above identified papers have refined the CLEAN algorithm to allow the recovery of very closely spaced targets i.e. targets in adjacent range cells . However they do not give any fundamental performance limit of their respective algorithms or make any claim of optimality. Additionally they have limited performance for very small targets in the presence of large targets.

The process disclosed in exemplary embodiments employs an algorithm that assumes the entire radar listen interval has been band limited with a suitable bandpass filter digitized and is available for processing. The signal model can be expressed in eqn. 1 as 1 where y represents the received observation data tilde over W represents the convolution operation superscript H is conjugate transpose operation c is the vector of target amplitudes and n is a vector of additive white Gaussian noise AWGN . Multiplication by tilde over W represents the operation of convolution as an array such that 

This signal model involving AWGN is described in two reference papers published on this algorithm both incorporated by reference in their entireties to the specification 

Estimating the target amplitude vector c using the CLEAN Deconvolver is performed as 3 where is the minimum variance unbiased estimate of the target amplitude vector c. By contrast a matched filter would yield 4 where represents the matched filter estimate.

Application of the CLEAN algorithm involves three elements. First the spectrum of the data can be controlled by proper selection of filtering and sample rate. The second element is obtaining the point spread function PSF also known as system impulse response. This is also called the calibration problem. The third element is applying combinations of the CLEAN Deconvolver Correlator and CLEAN Detector depending on signal to noise ratio SNR of the data and the quality of the PSF to produce the best estimate of the target amplitude vector c.

The first element is the least apparent part of this approach. This is due to considerations in the frequency domain while the entire deconvolution approach can be based completely on time domain analysis.

The influence of spectral shaping involves the operation of deconvolution in the time domain which is equivalent to multiplying the reciprocal of the PSF Fourier transform times the Fourier transform of the received or observed data. Thus in the time domain y t represents the observed data h t is the impulse response of the radar and c t is the target complex i.e. collection or scatters such that the signal model can be represented by 5 where circle around x is the convolution operator between the impulse response and the target complex of scatters .

In the frequency domain for Y f H f and C f representing respective Fourier transforms of y t h t and c t then eqn. 5 can be rewritten in eqn. 6 as 6 where such convolution in the Fourier transforms domain is replaced by multiplication.

Using eqn. 6 to estimate target amplitude c t is done by solving for C f and taking the inverse Fourier transform to produce the integral 

Next the response of a point target is recognized in the time domain as 8 where tcorresponds to the range of the target and represents an impulse function. When the range is arbitrarily set to t 0 in the limit observed frequency transform Y f approaches the value impulse response transform H f such as the ratio Y f H f becomes unity the Fourier transform of eqn. 8 can be incorporated into eqn. 7 to obtain 

Signal characteristics can be visually described by the accompanying drawings. shows a graphical view for a Response of Deconvolution to a single point target. The abscissa represents time or range and the ordinate represents amplitude.

The response to the single point target can be described as a sinc pulse having an attenuated oscillating waveform intersecting the abscissa at regular intervals denoted by circles are the values of the sinc function at values of time equal to integral multiples of the sample time T 1 2f .

The normalized sinc function used for digital signal processing and communication may be expressed as 

Note that when the continuous time function t is sampled a intervals of 1 2f then all values of t equal to zero except for the value at t 0. This means the time sidelobes i.e. values of t at times other than where the target truly exists are zero. This is illustrated in in which the circles along the abscissa indicate the values of t for a sample rate of 2f. Targets that are arbitrarily small can be observed in the presence of larger targets for sufficiently high SNR because the sidelobes can be minimized to be arbitrarily small.

To restate achieving arbitrarily small range time sidelobes is achievable by controlling the bandwidth of the system and sample interval to guarantee that Y f H f 1 for the frequency interval of f

The second element is obtaining the PSF or impulse response of the radar. This represents an important aspect of applying the CLEAN algorithm because any errors in determining the PSF can significantly degrade or destroy the performance of the CLEAN algorithm. The overall response of the system includes the radar transmitter antenna and receive path to the point that the baseband data are provided for processing and detection.

A receive antenna captures the reflected signal which is processed through a band pass filter before gain is applied by a low noise amplifier . The amplified signal is downconverted by a mixer run through a low pass filter and digitized by an analog to digital A D converter to provide observed broadband data y as the output . Thus observed data vector y obtained from a point target such as the sphere is the impulse response or PSF of the entire radar.

When the radar uses only one waveform obtaining calibration can be straightforward. One merely needs to obtain samples in an observation data vector y that coincides with the return for a strong point target i.e. high SNR . These samples represent the impulse response of the whole system. Thus the effects of all the filters and amplifiers in the radar receive and transmit paths are accounted for.

Under this situation using the formulation of the earlier cited papers Foreman 2006 one can establish that the impulse response vector w of the transmitted waveform is equivalent to the observed data vector y such that w y. Obtaining the impulse response vector w enables formation of convolution operation tilde over W to employ the CLEAN algorithm.

However for many radars using the above technique is impractical due to the fact that the radar uses many different waveforms. Thus a received sample may be obtained for every waveform used. The following approach is used to synthesize the impulse response vector w and thus convolution operation tilde over W for different waveforms when only one received sample from one waveform is available.

Calibration synthesis assumes that one good sample is available denoted as observed data vector yfor one driving waveform denoted as s. Based on this the signal model can be expressed in eqn. 11 as 11 where h is the impulse response of the system separate of the driving waveform s output of of and tilde over S is the convolution matrix constructed from that driving waveform vector s. Therefore the convolution matrix tilde over S is of the form 

In eqn. 11 observed data vector yrepresents a column vector of length p convolution matrix tilde over S has size of p l and impulse response h is a column vector of length l. The parameter l corresponds to the length of the impulse response of the radar excluding the driving waveform vector s. Also p is the length of the total impulse of the radar including the driving waveform vector s. Using this signal model the calibration data for second driving waveform vector scan be estimated in eqn. 12 as 13 where yis the second observed data vector adjusted by calibration from the first observed data vector y.

Thus for waveform sthe impulse response or PSF is inferred from the second observed data vector y. The convolution matrix tilde over S is constructed from the second driving waveform vector sinferred from calibration of the first driving waveform vector s. Therefore convolution operation tilde over W is determined by setting impulse response vector equal to the second observed data vector w y.

The third element is the application of the various forms of the CLEAN algorithm developed in the pervious Foreman papers plus the reformulated CLEAN Detector described below. These processes are applied based on the properties of the observed data vector y. For data consisting of all uneclipsed targets the process uses the CLEAN Deconvolver and reformulated CLEAN Detector as in the 2007 Foreman paper.

Data that contain eclipsed targets benefit from the application of the CLEAN Detector. In all cases target Doppler can preferably be taken into account. As described in the 2006 Foreman paper uncompensated target Doppler destroys the performance of the CLEAN Deconvolver and CLEAN Detector. Therefore the Doppler for high SNR targets in the scene should preferably be determined or estimated if unknown and included in the CLEAN algorithms.

The CLEAN Deconvolver should be used for the detection of all high SNR uneclipsed targets as described in eqn. 3 . This resolves targets to the nearest range sample. The range time sidelobe performance of the CLEAN Deconvolver can be determined by the selection of filter and sampling rate as discussed in element 1 and the SNR of the calibration data from element 2.

When the SNR of the large targets is high and the SNR of the small targets is not a correlator is required to detect the targets. The CLEAN Deconvolver can be used in conjunction with the correlator to detect the large targets. This can be accomplished by subjecting the vector in eqn. 3 to a threshold test that determines which elements have targets that can be detected by the CLEAN Deconvolver.

Next setting these elements to zero removes them from the vector to produce a small target vector c which now contains noise and targets too small to be detected with the CLEAN Deconvolver of eqn. 3 . Next inverting the CLEAN Deconvolver reproduces the observed data vector y without the large targets obscuring the smaller ones. Combining this with the correlation function is performed in eqn. 14 as 14 where is the estimate of the scene minus the large targets and c represents the small target vector. Thus eqn. 14 applies the correlator that maximizes SNR allowing the detection of the small targets without being obscured by the sidelobes of the large targets removed.

For situations in which the CLEAN Deconvolver combined with the correlator does not provide adequate performance the correlator combined with the Reformulated CLEAN Detector should be applied. This is accomplished by first determining the location and amplitude of all the large targets and may be performed with the CLEAN Deconvolver provided the target SNRs are sufficient. The correlator can be used for low SNR targets.

The next step is to build the large target vector c by including the amplitude estimates of the large targets detected. Every other element of large target vector c is set to zero. The final step is to compute in eqn. 15 the Reformulated CLEAN Detector as 15 where noise amplitude is assumed to be unity I is an identity matrix of the noise amplitude and the elements of are evaluated against a threshold to detect previous undetected small targets. In this formulation c vector of large targets constitutes interference in a similar manner as receiver noise is in eqn. 13 . This process occludes the large target vector c so as to enable detection of small targets hidden in the sidelobe clutter.

The advantages of this methodology is improved range resolution and sidelobe performance meaning that targets can be resolved at closer ranges and with larger differences in amplitude. The performance is limited only by bandwidth and SNR. Performance is virtually unaffected by waveform coding. Only the waveform bandwidth has such an influence as its intrinsic range time sidelobe performance does not limit what can be achieved with this CLEAN approach. Therefore large improvements can practically and economically be accomplished in existing radars with only signal processing changes rather than by upgrades to transmission or reception hardware.

Performance improvements are illustrated in the following series of drawings. illustrates a graphical view for Correlator Output based on a filtered pulse with the target in the center. The plot shows time range representing the abscissa and SNR in decibels dB as the ordinate . The output signal of a hypothetical radar using a 32 chip derivative phase shift keying PSK waveform with the each chip repeated sixteen times. The range time sidelobes are only 17 dB down from the peak of the target response. In this example the Range Time sidelobes prevent detecting smaller targets.

However the range time sidelobes are still very good and enable the detection of the three smaller targets that could not be seen in the initial Correlator Output plot . Also the smaller targets are localized each to a single range cell. Thus the CLEAN Deconvolver is the preferred process for sufficient SNR.

The final example is the application of the Reformulated CLEAN Detector. To illustrate this the same target complex was simulated with a much lower SNR. In this case the CLEAN Deconvolver could not detect the largest target. This is illustrated in CLEAN Output plot . Here the SNR of the large target is 11 dB while the SNR of the three small targets is 4 dB.

Subsequent to steps or the process continues to control the frequency response and sampling rate at step . The PSF in the frequency domain multiplied by the convolution filter response can be set to unity over the sampling rate for written 1 2f This can be verified by applying the CLEAN Deconvolver to the calibration data such as in plot . Low range time sidelobes in the signal indicate that the calibration data are valid and that the frequency response and sampling rate have been properly controlled.

At subsequent step the CLEAN Deconvolver and Detector may be applied to detect or measure amplitude of targets depending on the SNR of the various targets. If all targets of interest have high SNR then the CLEAN Deconvolver or else the CLEAN Detector can be used to provide maximum amplitude measurement accuracy and resolution performance.

Alternatively if some of the targets of interest possess SNR too small to be observed by the CLEAN Deconvolver or the CLEAN Detector then these may be combined with the correlator eqn. 14 and Reformulated CLEAN Detector eqn. 15 to resolve the obscured target. The process then stops at step for that waveform and returns to the initial step if evaluating another waveform.

As previously described the matched filter or correlator provides the maximum output SNR for additive white noise. The plot shows the output of a hypothetical radar using a 32 chip derivative phase shift keying waveform with the each chip repeated sixteen times similar to plot . The range time sidelobes are only 17 dB down from the peak of the target response. A large center target has 35 dB SNR whereas by contrast and three smaller ones has only 26 dB SNR. Only the large target can be reliably detected at spike due to the range time sidelobes of the waveform used.

Alternative to this methodology would be to change the waveform design of the radar to improve time sidelobe performance. Any significant change in this area of the radar design could necessitate a companion change in the transmitter of the radar and possibly the antenna. Such changes would mean changing the most expensive parts of the radar.

In addition to waveform generator changes there are other versions of the CLEAN algorithm that would mitigate the impact of large targets obscuring small targets. However without the elements 1 and 2 these approaches would not achieve the level of performance of this methodology.

Various exemplary embodiments enable very low sidelobes for the detection of closely spaced targets with largely differing amplitudes. Other various embodiments alternatively or additionally provide for significantly improved resolution with waveforms that would otherwise have poor range resolution. Advantages include improved range resolution performance with existing radars by only changing the signal processing and leaving the waveform generator transmitter chain and receiver chain intact. In addition amplitude estimation accuracy is improved because this process includes a practical implementation of a minimum variance unbiased estimator.

Another advantage is improved detection of low signal to noise ratio SNR targets in the presence of large signal to noise ratio targets by simultaneously maximizing the SNR of the small targets and minimizing the SNR from previously detected large targets. A further advantage is improved target length estimates. Thus waveforms are not constrained to be minimum phase. These techniques have application to sonar and seismology.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

