---

title: Systems and methods for cross-vendor mapping service in cloud networks
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for a cross-vendor mapping service in cloud networks. A mapping service can be provided external to one or more sets of clouds which can access vendor databases in those clouds, and generate reports on software compatibility for software resources available in those diverse cloud networks. A user in an original cloud may wish to construct an image of a set of appliances or other services or entities in a second, external cloud or clouds. The external target cloud(s) may have different application sets, and/or applications available from different vendors, than those software resources hosted in the original cloud. A mapping service external to the participating clouds can enumerate the applications or other resources available in an external cloud, and generate a mapping or translation of those components to construct desired appliance images in that destination. Subscription terms can also be translated between clouds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08364819&OS=08364819&RS=08364819
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08364819
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
The invention relates generally to systems and methods for a cross vendor mapping service in cloud networks and more particularly to platforms and techniques for deploying an external service to permit any cloud in a group of clouds to identify the set of vendor software components available in another external cloud and generate a compatibility mapping between the appliances or other services or entities hosted in the subject cloud and the application or other resources set in the target cloud counterpart or counterparts available to construct the same or compatible appliances or other services or entities in those target cloud networks.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes etc. Due to the user s requirements and usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud and may be utilizing multiple independent clouds to support the cloud processes.

As such when the user plans or intends to deploy new or additional resources to their complement of cloud based resources the user may have difficulty determining which applications appliances services and or other resources can be integrated into new deployments and remain compatible with existing virtual machines and or each other. In part these challenges to the design of expanded or inter cloud networks can relate to the fact that a given vendor located in one cloud may not have visibility on the set of vendors software choices and other resources available in another cloud they may wish to host additional parts of their network.

The vendors in that prospective counterpart cloud may register their applications appliances and or other products or services directly to that particular cloud through its cloud management system or an independent software vendor ISV repository but the data captured using those systems may be restricted to local services and not exposed to the user who is considering their use in that external cloud. Users who wish to access and register new virtual machines applications appliances or other entities in arbitrary external clouds may wish to view and determine compatibility of their intended application set with the applications and other resources of their own host cloud network before configuring or instantiating machines applications or services in across those remote cloud boundaries. It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for a cross vendor mapping service in cloud networks in which users based in any one or more arbitrary host cloud can access an external service to determine the compatibility of their own intended applications or appliances with those appliances applications and or services populating other arbitrary external cloud or clouds.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource For example one group of resource servers can host and serve an operating system or components thereof to deliver to and instantiate a virtual machine. Another group of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time to supply a defined level of processing power for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers can host and serve applications to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications or software. Other types of resource servers are possible.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the network via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated clients or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments as shown mapping service can serve to access and manage the extension of set of original appliances and or other machines services or resources to a set of external clouds external to original cloud . In aspects set of external clouds can include external clouds generally under the supervision of one or more separate or remote cloud management system separate from the cloud management system managing original cloud . In aspects mapping service can communicate with set of external clouds to determine the software and other resources available in those remote cloud networks and the compatibility of those resources with the configuration of set of original appliances or other entities. In aspects mapping service can determine an available set of external software resources including supporting operating systems applications and or other software hosted in set of external clouds to potentially configure and construct a set of target appliances in those external cloud networks.

More particularly and as likewise shown in mapping service can communicate with set of external clouds to capture and record set of external software resources hosted in set of external clouds for instance by interrogating one or more cloud management system hosting one or more of set of external clouds . Mapping service can for instance interrogate access and or run reports using or based on set of vendor repositories located in one or more external cloud to determine the operating system applications and or other software resources available in each particular cloud environment. In aspects as shown mapping service can check the set of software resources related to or supporting set of original appliances or other entities against set of external software resources to determine whether matching applications messaging security etc. incorporate in set of original appliances are also available in set of external clouds . In aspects if a matching software component is located in set of external clouds mapping service can select those same operating system application or other components to generate set of target appliances . In aspects if a matching operating system application or other component is not located within the set of external software resources mapping service can attempt to substitute one or more other software components such as the same application in a different version or a similar application with the same application programming interface API or other features to be installed in place of the component used in set of original appliances . In embodiments different clouds in set of external clouds can host or maintain diverse sets of operating system application and or other components or resources. In cases where a compatible match of set of software resources supporting original set of appliances in original cloud can not be made mapping service can notify the user requesting the determination of compatible software resources and construction of the same or compatible set of target appliances that no matching resources could be located and or that instantiation or installation of set of target appliances can not be made in one or more external cloud. In aspects mapping service can maintain a record of the availability and compatibility of all software resources across the boundaries of original cloud and any one or more clouds in set of external clouds as well as the availability and compatibility of vendor matches or substitutes for all types of operating system application and or other software components. Mapping service can in aspects also register and track the configuration data and or operation of set of original appliances set of target appliances and or other machines entities or services. It may be noted that in aspects set of target appliances can be configured to be instantiated or operate on a fail over basis when set of original appliances fails when that set of appliances runs out of capacity or based on other conditions or triggers. In further aspects set of target appliances can be configured to run in conjunction or in tandem with set of original appliances on a continuous periodic or other basis.

In mapping service can access receive and or identify the configuration profile of appliances and or other software resources in set of software resources of the user or service in the one or more original cloud that the user or service wishes to extend to a set of external clouds . In aspects the software resources that the user or service wishes to extend to set of external clouds can include a set of appliances of the same type or configuration. In aspects the software resources that the user or service wishes to extend to other external clouds can in addition or instead comprise different sets of diverse appliances having different configurations. In aspects the software resources the user or service wishes to extend to set of external clouds can in addition or instead include other software resources than appliances. For instance the software resources desired to be ported extended or migrated to set of external clouds can include virtual machines applications operating systems services and or other resources that the user or service wishes to build and instantiate in set of external clouds . In aspects the exported software resources can be configured to be installed and run in any one or more clouds in set of external clouds while the set of software resources remains installed and operating in original cloud and or can be configured to replace those resources in original cloud .

In mapping service and or other logic can determine the available operating system application components and or other components or resources available in set of external resources hosted in or available through any one or more selected clouds in set of external clouds . In mapping service and or other logic can generate a cross vendor and or cross cloud mapping of one or more of the set of software resources used in original cloud to set of external resources in set of external clouds to be used to construct the desired appliances virtual machines services and or other resources or entities in set of external clouds . In aspects the cross vendor mapping can identify applications or other resources that may be used or compatibly substituted for existing applications or resources in original cloud to generate the same or compatible appliances or other entities in set of external clouds . In cases the mapping of resources can be on a one to one basis so that for instance Messaging Application B from Vendor Y can be substituted in set of external clouds for Messaging Application A from Vendor X hosted in original cloud . In cases substitutions or adjustments need not be made on a one to one basis so that for example two or more applications together can be selected to substitute or replace one application hosted in original cloud . Other mappings substitutions configurations and or adjustments in set of software resources to translate those resources to the set of external resources available across the boundary of original cloud in set of external clouds .

In mapping service and or other logic can identify or select the mapped components in set of external resources to be used in constructing the desired appliances virtual machines and or other machines software entities or services to be instantiated in set of external clouds . For instance the entire complement of software components needed to generate appliances or other resources in set of external clouds can be enumerated or recorded. In aspects when more than one compatible application is available in set of external resources of set of external clouds selection of components to be used can be made based on predetermined criteria. For example applications or other components from vendors already supplying other applications or components can be selected and or applications or other components have a least cost greatest scalability and or other factor or factors can be selected. Other criteria for selection of components of set of external resources used to construct target appliances or other machines services or entities can be used.

In mapping service and or other logic can access set of vendor repositories and or other sources to extract the mapped components of set of external resources to construct the desired set of target appliances and or other machines services or resources. In mapping service and or other logic can confirm subscription terms adjustments and or other business rules for use of the selected target components including any transferred entitlement s to applications or other component s in set of external resources to be used in set of external clouds . In mapping service and or other logic can instantiate set of target appliances and or other machines services or resources in one or more target clouds in set of external clouds for instance via one or more cloud management system located in or associated with those target cloud networks. In the operating system application and or other component configuration of the resulting set of target appliances and or other entities can be recorded in mapping service in the cloud management system of the original cloud in one or more cloud management system of set of external clouds and or other location. In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of virtual machines . For further example while embodiments have been described in which one mapping service operates to access and manage the software component resources of a home or original cloud and a set of external clouds in embodiments multiple mapping services can cooperate to maintain and manage the extension of appliances or other entities on a cross cloud and or cross vendor basis. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

