---

title: Communication session permissions in wireless communication systems
abstract: Systems, apparatuses and methods of determining whether to permit a call to an access terminal are disclosed. A second party is determined to be available for a communication session between a first party and the second party. Location information associated with a call permissions rule set is obtained, where the call permissions rule set includes at least one rule related to whether a communication session between the first and second parties is permissible. Further, at least one rule includes one or more location-based rules. Location information is obtained that is associated with the second party. Then, it is determined whether to permit the communication session based on the obtained location information associated with the call permissions rule set and the obtained location information associated with the second party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08565727&OS=08565727&RS=08565727
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08565727
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100309
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 164 274 entitled COMMUNICATION SESSION PERMISSIONS IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS filed Mar. 27 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to determining whether to permit a communication session between two or more parties within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communications network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a cell or sector similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1 x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments include systems apparatuses and methods of determining whether to permit a call to an access terminal. A second party is determined to be available for a communication session between a first party and the second party. Location information associated with a call permissions rule set is obtained where the call permissions rule set includes at least one rule related to whether a communication session between the first and second parties is permissible. Further at least one rule includes one or more location based rules. Location information is obtained that is associated with the second party. Then it is determined whether to permit the communication session based on the obtained location information associated with the call permissions rule set and the obtained location information associated with the second party.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below a description of conventional call permission enforcement is described followed by call permission enforcement according to embodiments of the present invention.

In the application server announces a call with a call announcement message e.g. a PTT or PTX call announce message that includes a calling party ID of the call initiator e.g. a PTT initiator a PTX initiator a unicast call initiator etc. . The announced call can be for a unicast call or a multicast call. In other words while the application server is described above with respect to and as being a multicast server the application server may alternatively correspond to a unicast server.

AT receives the call announcement message from the application server and determines whether to permit the call based on the calling party ID of the calling party and the call permissions rule set . For example AT compares the calling party ID received with the call announcement message in with the listed calling party IDs in the call permissions rule set established in . If AT finds a matching calling party ID AT next determines the call permissions associated with the matching calling party ID to determine whether the call can be permitted.

In if AT determines not to permit the call AT blocks or ignores the call announcement message . For example in AT drops the call announcement packet such that AT is not aware that the call was ever announced. Alternatively in another example AT can be notified that the call announcement message was received and rejected pursuant to the call permissions rule set. Otherwise if AT determines to permit the call the process of advances to .

In an example in AT notifies a user of AT of the call announcement message e.g. prompts the user for an accept reject indication and the user can then determine whether to accept the call. In this example if the call is determined to be permitted by the call permissions rule set in the user still has the option to overrule the call permissions rule set and reject the call. Alternatively in another example AT may automatically accept the call in without first obtaining user permission. Irrespective of the manner by which calls are accepted of assumes that AT accepts the call.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the call permissions rule set used to determine call permissions in has some flexibility with regard to calling party ID time parameters etc. However conventional call permissions rule sets do not include location criteria associated with a calling party as a factor in determining call permissions. Accordingly embodiments of the invention described below are directed to determining whether to permit a call based at least in part upon location criteria associate with a calling party.

As will now be described in greater detail embodiments of the invention described below are directed to determining whether to permit a call based at least in part upon location information associated with a calling party. While the examples provided below are described in in some instances with respect to multicast calls e.g. push to talk PTT calls push to transfer PTX calls QChat calls etc. where the application server is embodied as a multicast server it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the present invention can be directed to unicast calls.

As used herein location information is intended to be interpreted broadly and can be indicative of a geographic range or area e.g. a sector or other geographic partition a geographic coordinate a street or address e.g. 80E. Avenue 1773 oak farm crossing Oakton Va. etc. a building e.g. Shea Stadium The Empire State Building etc. and or any other metric that can be used to indicate location.

In an example the location based call permissions rule set can include global location based call permissions rules that apply to all calling parties or can include more selective location based call permissions rules that apply to less than all calling parties. For example a first location based call permissions rule can be applied to a first set of calling parties e.g. Business Contacts etc. a second location based call permissions rule can be applied to a second set of calling parties e.g. Family Contacts etc. and a non location based call permissions rule e.g. such as a conventional calling party ID or time based rule can be applied to a third set of calling parties e.g. Emergency Contacts etc. . Table 1 below illustrates a number of location based call permissions rule examples.

Referring to Table 1 above a number of different rule examples are provided. One or more of the listed rules may be included within a location based call permissions rule set in an example. Also the scope of the rules may be controlled by a user of AT . For example if the location based call permissions rule set includes Rules 1 and 2 Rule 1 may apply to calling parties A B and C and Rule 2 may apply to calling parties D E and F e.g. where A B and C correspond to a first type of contact such as business contact and D E and F correspond to a different type of contact . In a further example the scope of some rules may be limited to unicast calls while the scope of other rules may be limited to multicast calls. In further examples rules can be specific to group calls or non group calls. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the scope of the rule s are fully customizable by the user.

Again referring to Table 1 Rule 1 sets forth a rule that only calls from calling parties within 5 miles from a given sports arena for the duration of a given sporting event e.g. a baseball game a football game etc. are permitted. As will be appreciated to evaluate whether this rule is satisfied at below AT must know i the location of the calling party ii the location of the given sports arena iii the time span of the sporting event and iv a current time. It will be appreciated that without the duration aspect of Rule 1 iii and iv would not be required to evaluate the rule. Rule 2 is similar to Rule 1 in certain aspects except call announcements satisfying Rule 2 indicate calls that are blocked i.e. instead of permitted . Rule 3 differs from Rules 1 and 2 because Rule 3 relates to a current position of AT and not a fixed position e.g. the sporting arena in Rule and the hotel in Rule 2 are fixed . Rule 4 is associated with location information related to AT s current serving sector and a current serving sector of a calling party. Rule 5 is associated with location information related to a building that currently houses AT e.g. which may require a building recognition in addition to a mere geographic location estimate . Similar to Rule 5 Rule 6 is also associated location information related to both AT s current address or other building designation as well as the address or building designation of the calling party. As will be appreciated the location types of the current position of the calling party or AT in Table 1 above can correspond to any type of location information as defined above e.g. a geographic range or area such as a sector or geographic coordinate range a geographic coordinate a street or address a building etc. and or any other metric that can be used to indicate location .

Rules 1 6 are intended to demonstrate examples of the different potential location based call permissions rules that may be established by a user of AT . However it will be appreciated that in other embodiments of the invention different rules and or different combinations of rules may be included within the location based call permissions rule set. Also while each rule example in Table 1 includes at least one location criterion in other embodiments of the invention the location based call permission rule set can include one or more rules that do not include a location criterion. Also while not illustrated in Table 1 it is possible for AT to establish one or more calling parties e.g. emergency contacts that will always be permitted irrespective of restrictions set forth by the location base call permissions rule set.

Further while not discussed in detail above AT may not necessarily have the information required to evaluate one or more rules in the rule set e.g. for Rule 2 the location of the given hotel may not be known etc. . In this example a default permission setting e.g. always permit always block etc. may be established for calls that cannot be evaluated by the rule set. Hereinafter it may be assumed for the processes of for the sake of convenience that AT can evaluate any location based rule. Examples of how AT may acquire the requisite location information to evaluate location based rules are discussed in more detail below with respect to .

Returning to in at some point after the location based call permissions rule set is established in assume that the application server receives a request to call AT e.g. for a unicast call a multicast call etc. . In the application server forwards an announce message e.g. a PTT or PTX call announce message to the RAN which transmits the announce message to AT e.g. as a data over signaling DOS message on a control channel CCH via a standard paging process etc. . AT receives the announce message transmitted in and determines location information associated with the location based call permissions rule set . In other words in AT acquires the location information by which to determine whether to permit the announced call e.g. the qualifying location information based on one or more rules included within the location based call permissions rule set e.g. the disqualifying location information . For example assume that the location based call permissions rule set for AT includes Rule 1 from Table 1 above Rule 1 Only permit calls from calling parties within 5 miles from a given sports arena for the duration of a given sporting event . In this example the location information determined in corresponds to a five mile radius zone surrounding the given sports arena e.g. based on a geographic location or the arena as determined by a satellite positioning system SPS such as the global positioning system GPS a geographic zone or range based on GPS etc. which can be acquired in advance from an Internet site manually entered by the user etc. . While not location information the time span or duration of the given sporting event can also be acquired in e.g. 5 00 PM 8 00 PM EST on Monday along with a current time e.g. a time at which the announce message is received . In another example if the location based call permissions rule set includes Rule 3 or Rule 5 from Table 1 then a current position of AT would also be determined e.g. based on GPS a hybrid GPS cellular positioning technique triangulation etc. .

In AT determines location information associated with the calling party. For example for Rule 1 this can include determining a geographic location e.g. computed by GPS triangulation etc. of the calling party. For Rule 5 this includes determining whether the calling party is located within a building etc. In AT determines whether to permit the call based on the location information associated with the location based call permissions rule set and the location information associated with the calling party. For example the location information determined in can be compared with the location information determined in to determine whether one or more rules of the location based call permissions rule set permit the call to proceed.

In if AT determines not to permit the call AT blocks or ignores the call announcement message . For example in AT drops the call announcement packet such that AT is not aware that the call was ever announced. Alternatively in another example AT can be notified that the call announcement message was received and rejected pursuant to the call permissions rule set. Otherwise if AT determines to permit the call the process of advances to .

In an example in AT notifies a user of AT of the call announcement message and the user can then determine whether to accept the call. In this example if the call is determined to be permitted by the call permissions rule set in the user still has the option to overrule the call permissions rule set and reject the call. Alternatively in another example AT may automatically accept the call in without first obtaining user permission. Irrespective of the manner by which calls are accepted of assumes that AT accepts the call.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art establishing call permissions rule sets that take into account one or more location criteria grant more control to a user of an AT regarding when and where calls are permitted or restricted. Further while the enforcement of the location based call permission rule set is performed at the AT in the process of it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention may enforce the rule set at other network entities such as the application server as will now be described with respect to .

After establishing the location based call permissions rule set in AT sends the rule set to the application server which maintains one or more rule sets for access terminals within the wireless communications system . At some point after receiving the location based call permissions rule set the application server receives a request to call AT e.g. for a unicast call a multicast call etc. . In the application server determines location information associated with the location based call permissions rule set and in the application server determines location information associated with the calling party. and of generally correspond to and of respectively except and are performed at the application server whereas and of are performed at AT . Accordingly a further description of and has been omitted for the sake of brevity.

In the application server determines whether to permit the call e.g. from the application server s standpoint this means whether to announce the call based on the location information associated with the location based call permissions rule set and the location information associated with the calling party. For example the location information determined in can be compared with the location information determined in to determine whether one or more rules of the location based call permissions rule set permit the call to proceed.

In if the application server determines not to permit the call the application server does not announce the call to AT . However as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art if the call to be announced is a multicast call the call announce message may still be transmitted in AT s sector such that the call is still announced to AT . In this case should be interpreted as indicating that AT is not factored into the decision regarding the sectors which will announce the multicast session. Otherwise if the application server determines to permit the call the application server sends the call announce message to AT . In assume that AT sends a message that indicates an acceptance of the announced call. In an example in AT notifies a user of AT of the call announcement message and the user can then determine whether to accept the call. In this example the user still has the option to overrule the call permissions rule set and reject the call. Alternatively in another example AT may automatically accept the call in without first obtaining user permission. Irrespective of the manner by which calls are accepted of assumes that AT accepts the call.

While the processes of as described above assume that the location information associated with the calling party can be determined at the target AT or AT and or the application server it will be appreciated that ATs are not necessarily aware of the locations of ATs that call them. Accordingly have been provided to demonstrate a number of different ways a calling party or AT AT may convey its location information to the application server and or one or more target ATs e.g. such as AT .

As will be appreciated illustrate different potential manners by which an entity that enforces a call permissions rule set e.g. a called party such as AT the application server etc. can obtain location information that enables the entity to evaluate the location based rules contained in the rule set. However embodiments of the present invention are not limited to these particular manners of obtaining the location information and for example can be implemented in any system where this information can be obtained in other embodiments of the present invention.

While embodiments of the invention above have generally been directed to calls it will be appreciated that other embodiments of the invention may be directed to any type of communication session e.g. a data transport session a unicast call or session a multicast call or session a direct session between two session participants etc. . Accordingly as used herein call is intended to be interpreted broadly so as to read upon any type of communicative contact to or from an access terminal and is not necessarily limited to phone calls for example unless expressly indicated. For example calls can include phone calls video transfers txt messages etc.

Further while embodiments have generally been given above with respect to determining whether to permit a call or communication session at a called party based on location information of a calling party other embodiments can be directed to determining whether to permit a call or communication session at a calling party based on location information of the calling party itself. For example assume that an employer issues a certain number of wireless phones to its employees to be used for work purposes only. The employer provisions the wireless phones with location restriction based software that only permits calls or other types of communication sessions to be made when the employees are within proximity to designated work areas. Thus the employer can increase the likelihood that its employees only use their work phones for work related objectives by restricting communicative access to the work phones to work related areas.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

