---

title: Apparatus and methods for real-time multimedia network traffic management and control in wireless networks
abstract: The invention is directed to network management systems and methods that provide substantially real-time network management and control capabilities of multimedia streaming traffic in telecommunications networks. The invention provides pre-emptive and autonomous network management and control capabilities, and may include shared intelligence of embedded systems—Heterogeneous Sensor Entities (HSE) and the Sensor Service Management (SSM) system. HSEs are distributed real-time embedded systems provisioned in various network elements. HSEs performs fault, configuration, accounting, performance and security network management functions in real-time; and real-time network management control activations and removals. SSM facilitates automated decision making, rapid deployment of HSEs and real-time provisioning of network management and control services. The service communication framework amongst various HSEs and the SSM is provided by the Heterogeneous Service Creation system. The proposed network management procedure provides real-time network management and control capabilities of multimedia traffic in wireless networks and clusters of independent networks respectively.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08868725&OS=08868725&RS=08868725
owner: Kent State University
number: 08868725
owner_city: Kent
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100610
---
This patent application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 186 655 filed Jun. 12 2009 the disclosure of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to network management procedures and particularly to a real time network management and control system for multimedia streaming traffic in telecommunications networks such as 4G wireless networks.

Current network management procedures are concerned primarily with monitoring aspects which do not provide real time control capabilities. Network management involves a set of activities and techniques that are required to plan design control maintain and grow a network infrastructure and its associated services. These activities include monitoring the network and the ability to take prompt action to efficiently maintain the service level objectives and to control the flow of traffic when necessary. The OSI reference model classifies network management functions into five functional areas fault management configuration management accounting management performance management and security management. These functions are collectively referred to as FCAPS . Network management activities also include detection identification investigation and resolution of faulty network elements and transmission facilities. In the 3G wireless networks and prior telecommunications environment network monitoring is accomplished by logically connecting the network elements to remote Element Management Systems which are under the control of one or more Network Management Systems NMS . The NMS is collocated with various Operations Support Systems in a Network Operations Center NOC . Effective network management depends on the coordination of controls across the various Element Management Systems. These controls may include schedule changes provisioning fault and configuration management modifications. In today s environment control coordinations are handled by NOC engineers operators through manual procedures which present a number of setbacks for the complex and heterogeneous real time multimedia traffic in 4G wireless networks. The Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP framework is the dominant industry standard. The SNMP framework consists of three key elements The standard Management Information Base MIB The Structure of Management Information SMI and The Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP . Despite its popularity the SNMP framework has a number of disadvantages. The SNMP framework assumes a static managed object. Every data item must be carefully pre defined including its type size and access restrictions before it can be used in the MIB.

With the complexity of real time multimedia traffic streams across different bandwidths of wireless and wired networks it would require tremendous time effort and patience to accurately pre define the wide variety of managed objects for real time multimedia traffic in the wireless and wired networks such as 4G networks. Moreover modeling the characteristics of real time multimedia traffic as static objects may lead to inaccurate representations. To retrieve SNMP data items i.e. discrete values the manager must periodically obtain poll all the discrete values associated with the object s the manager stores the values and determines whether the retrieved values are of interest then constructs complimentary information which identifies implementation of appropriate network management functions. The lack of direct filtering mechanism makes real time network management process cumbersome. The periodic polling of SNMP discrete values for multimedia traffic over a WAN connection consumes a lot of bandwidth which may contribute to network traffic congestion due to the large volumes of diverse data items i.e. attributes associated with real time multimedia traffic managed objects. The length of the pooling period accompanied by the data analysis of the discrete values and subsequent information construction phases introduce latency which is undesirable for real time video communications.

Second generation 2G and 2.5G wireless systems such as CDMA GSM and IS 95 were designed primarily to transport speech and low bit rate data in non real time. A service provider s 2G or 2.5G wireless network is primarily homogeneous and therefore easily managed by employing standards defined by the International Telecommunications Union for network management such as Common Management Information Protocol CMIP Telecommunications Management Network TMN protocol.

The Third generation 3 G wireless networks support higher bit rate data along with convergence of speech and data traffic. The 3 G systems including CDMA2000 UMTS GPRS and WiMax were developed independently to target different service types and high bit rate data services. The 3 G network management paradigm procedure is non integrated. The International Mobile Telecommunications 2000 IMT 2000 provides a family of standards for the telecommunications services. However the SNMP is widely used for data services.

The Fourth generation 4 G wireless network paradigm on the other hand is designed to provide higher bit rates for real time video voice and data traffic which may traverse multiple wireless network technologies with different quality of network element technologies reliability Fault Configuration billing methods Accounting quality of service QoS levels Performance and Security policies. Hence A 4 G mobile user may concurrently connect to different QoS wireless networks with the expectations of higher bit rates for real time video voice and data streams. Effective real time network management methodology is therefore necessary in order to maintain higher bit rates for real time traffic. More particularly it would be desirable that in the 4G wireless networks 

Today s network management procedures are reactive. To effectively manage real time multimedia traffic in wireless networks namely 4G wireless networks there needs to be a paradigm shift from a reactive approach to a distributed fully integrated pre emptive real time network management and real time control framework.

It is therefore an object of the invention to provide a network management system which can overcome the above problems. A novel network management procedure to facilitate real time network management and real time control capabilities of multimedia traffic in wireless networks more particularly 4G wireless networks is proposed. The methodology provides pre emptive network management and control capabilities. The methodology is based on the shared intelligence of distributed Heterogeneous Sensor Entities HSE and a Sensor Service Management SSM system. The HSEs are distributed real time embedded systems provisioned in various network elements nodes . The HSE performs fault configuration accounting performance and security network management functions in real time and real time network management control activations and removals in both wireless and wired network elements. The SSM system facilitates automated decision making rapid deployment of Heterogeneous Sensor Entities and real time provisioning of network management and control services. The service communication framework amongst various HSEs and the SSM is provided by the Heterogeneous Service Creation HSC system. The HSC creates the heterogeneous service elements for Fault Configuration Accounting Performance and Security network management functions and network management controls. The HSC SSM and HSE framework provides an integrated view of real time network management and control capabilities for wired and wireless networks such as 4G wireless networks and clusters of disparate independent networks. The independent networks include standalone wired voice networks like Legacy cellular networks data networks and or cable networks belonging to another domestic or international service provider which provide a transit route for real time multimedia streams originating from or terminating at a 4G wireless network for example. When a service provider utilizes clusters of physically independent networks to provide real time multimedia services to its end users the voice video and data traffic could be individually transported over a converged network consisting of Public Switched Telephone Networks cable networks data networks and other possible networks. This invention provides real time network management and control capabilities of multimedia traffic for both wireless networks and converged networks.

Various features of selected embodiments of this invention will now be described with reference to the figures. The spirit and scope of the invention is not limited to the embodiments selected for illustration. Furthermore the system may vary as to configuration and details of the parts and that the method may vary as to the specific steps and sequence without departing from the concepts as disclosed herein.

In order to clarify certain aspects of the embodiments disclosed hereafter various terms used herein are defined.

Core router is a device that may route packets to an edge router and nodes within a network the core router typically resides within the middle or backbone of the LAN.

Access router A device used to connect remote sites. This router is required at both ends of the remote sites and provides the protocol conversion between the LANs over the WAN.

The present invention relates to the aspects of network management system such as real time network management which may be applied in a range of networks simple or complex. A basic element of a network typically includes hardware software and protocols. The interrelationship of these elements constitutes a network infrastructure. The network infrastructure is the topology in which nodes any device connected to a network e.g. computer personal digital assistants PDAs cell phones printer or any device with an internet protocol address of a local area network LAN a metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN or an international gateway network as examples are connected to each other. These connections involve network elements i.e. routers such as edge core and access routers switches bridges PDAs servers modems and hubs using cables i.e. copper or fiber or wireless technologies. If a network is thought of as a means of transport the network protocols are the traffic rules . The network protocols define how devices in the network communicate. For example network protocols include such specifications as the methods that can be used to control congestion in the network and how application programs will communicate and exchange data. Key areas in network management include network operations security and problem determination. Because businesses depend heavily on the availability of data processing systems problems in the network must be addressed quickly. Some symptoms of a network that need to be addressed immediately might include error messages unusual network traffic load balancing service degradation slow response time no system response or low throughput. One embodiment of the present invention relates the decreasing the response time for addressing these problems. The embodiment hereafter details how a real time multimedia network traffic management and control system functions.

With reference to one embodiment of a system and apparatus for multimedia network traffic management and control according to an example of the invention herein referred to as the Model may comprise a Heterogeneous Service Customization system HSC a Sensor Service Management System SSM and a Heterogeneous Sensor Entity HSE . As used herein the term heterogeneous refers to comprising dissimilar elements or parts e.g. a heterogeneous network may comprise of routers including edge core and access routers for example computers with different operating systems additional devices like cell phones printers or PDAs all being interconnected within the same network . The Model provides latency free communication and seamless reliable delivery of heterogeneous multimedia services amongst a wide variety of multi access end user technologies and distributed services. In a functioning environment the Model may have a user who may access the SSM via a graphical user interface GUI . The GUI may communicate with the SSM using a metropolitan area network MAN local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or by any other means known to a person having ordinary skill in the art. Direct access to the SSM is also possible however accessing the SSM via the MAN LAN WAN or the like improves performance of the Model . Additionally the user may have direct access to the HSC or access may be established using a MAN LAN WAN or by any current or future technology and other means known to a person having ordinary skill in the art.

Additionally the Model may comprise a Service Creation Environment SCE . The SCE may provide the Model with services ready for deployment or customization. If a service provided by the SCE requires customization the service may be communicated to the HSC for customization. Communication between the SCE may be direct or via a MAN LAN WAN or any other means known to a person having ordinary skill in the art. As illustrated in the SSM communicates with a packet core network working with the HSE in real time. Each network in the packet core is independent from one another. For example one packet core network may include a fixed broadband network 3G and cellular wireless networks employing internet protocol multimedia system IMS as well as a broadband wireless 4G networks. In this example each individual network includes at least one HSE in its nodes. Each node communicates with the packet core network node which may be managed by the SSM . The SSM may also communicate with a variety of core networks. These networks may include Internet Protocol IP core networks Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing network or any other network known to a person having ordinary skill in the art. However for illustrative purposes a Packet Core network is provided in . With reference to the Model provides latency free communication and seamless reliable delivery of heterogeneous multimedia services by logically portioning networks into an Access Network Domain that may facilitate multi technology multi access and higher speed bandwidth and a Core Network Domain that may facilitate convergence of higher throughput data and voice networking multi access network technologies and heterogeneous protocols and services. As illustrated in the HSC creates a set of Heterogeneous real time Network Management Service Applications for Fault Configuration Accounting Performance and Security collectively referred to as FCAPS and Network Management Control . For example a security specialist uses the HSC to create a set of parameters for the Security application for use in the Model . The HSC transforms the FCAPS service elements templates based on the managed device s type and surroundings. Managed devices may be any device i.e. nodes network elements etc. used within the model . The HSC validates and builds the service executables. The service elements are installed on the SSM where the SSM manages the state of each service element. The waves illustrated in are service waves which are not required to be uniform with one another. Additionally the service waves demonstrate a continuous stream of network management which is a departure from the traditional discrete network management procedure. For purposes of this figure the wavelengths appear in similar size and frequency to show a system that is continuous and streaming in real time.

For example an HSE used to emulate network security may use a service element template customized to emulate internet traffic and control for the device that HSE is emulating. The SSM may communicate with the HSE using two mediums the Access and Core Networks as the primary transport medium and an Heterogeneous Sensor Network HSN as the secondary transport medium. The HSN is a packet network designed to carry bit mapped Vectors of network management information amongst HSE s and SSM . Bit mapped Vectors may be a bit sequence having Boolean values. Preferably multimedia traffic is carried over the Access and Core Networks. HSN bit mapped vectors may be carried over the Access and Core Networks depending on the multimedia traffic load levels. Communication within the Model may be established using wired technologies i.e. copper fiber etc. . . . or wireless technologies i.e. LTE WiMax wi fi GSM CDMA etc. . . . or any other means known to a person of ordinary skill in the art. The Model s functionality is independent of the type of network connectivity.

With reference to a description of the deployment of the FCAPS and Control services deploy in the Model and the states in which they exist in every sense of time is described. For illustrative purposes the Fault Management System is used to show the deployment and states in which each service exists. Any of the FCAPS and Control management systems may be used within this description. For example with reference to when a user creates a service in the SCE this service is sent to the HSC which then validates the service. If valid the HSC assigns a state of valid. If invalid the HSC returns the service to the SCE . If valid the HSC will send the service to the SSM see where the service resides and awaits deployment. The service resides in the FCAPS database see which serves as a repository. When you have a service that is valid it resides in the SSM . From here the service goes to a pending state. Here a user may change the service or provision the service. To provision the service the user may initiate a request to activate or reactivate a valid service instance. Here the service goes from valid to pending. The SSM changes the status of the service. The change from a pending state to an active state is made based on one of the descriptions listed in . See Table 1.0 for the list of Service Instance Status Interaction Descriptions. Furthermore with a Fault management service the SSM puts the valid state into an active state and then looks to the sensor to see if a state already exists on the sensor. The SSM will first try to retire the old state on the sensor then bring the new state to valid and replace the retired state. Once the state is retired the sensor may be absent a state until the new state is provisioned.

One function of Heterogeneous Service Customization HSC System is to create a set of heterogeneous Network Management Service Applications for FCAPS and Traffic Control. With reference to the HSC architecture may be comprised of four layers a Network Management Control Layer a Network Management Function Layer a Behavior Layer and an Attribute Layer . The Network Management Control Layer may provide extensions to the Open System Interconnection OSI network management reference model. The Network Management Control Layer layer may specify the procedures for activating and removing network management controls used by the HSE . The Network Management Control allows the HSE to alter the flow of traffic in the network in support of the network management s objectives. The Network Management Controls may be mapped to individual states defined by a State Machine SM which defines and emulates the transition of pertinent operations for a given Network Element. Programmable Decision Graphs may be employed to activate and remove Network Management Controls . Decision Graph is defined as a template of defined parameters.

The Network Management Function Layer may be comprised of five distinct entities representing Fault Management Configuration Management Accounting Management Performance Management and Security Management . Each continuous and streaming service entity may be defined based on a set of discrete states representing a set of conditions and a set of events of the managed network element. Programmable decision graphs may be used to control the execution of the network management function for each device.

The Behavior Layer may represent the operations of the managed Network Element as a set of State Machines. This layer provides a software abstraction of the network element s behavior. The Attribute Layer may describe the characteristics of an HSE and the managed node. For example the Attribute Layer may describe some characteristics such as the HSE network domain ID or Supervisory and Control parameters.

One function of Sensor Service Management SSM System may be to create heterogeneous service elements by customizing the HSC service element templates based on monitoring and control requirements of the HSE . These requirements are derived from the HSE s managed device types device functions and its local surroundings. Additionally the SSM may partition the Access and Core networks into logical network clusters which are groups of linked nodes working together closely for improving performance and or availability over what would be provided by a single node. Each cluster may be characterized by a graph representing a set of nodes network elements and other managed device types. Also the SSM provisions executable code versions service codes of the service element templates to the appropriate HSE applications in real time. Executable codes are typically instructions for a node in a form the node can directly use i.e. execute . Communication between the SSM and the HSE is established using bit mapped vectors for example. The provisioning dynamically incorporates the service codes into the HSE applications. The SSM may also receive audit or query requests from at least one Operation Support Systems OSS to audit or query the status of remote managed nodes through the HSE . Communication within the Model between the SSM and the HSE is in real time. A second function of the SSM may be to serve as a repository. For example when you have a service in a Valid state it resides in the SSM . From this point the Valid state goes to a Pending state. At this point a user may change the service or provision the Pending state service. To provision the user may initiate a request to activate or reactivate a Valid state s service instance. The SSM may then change the status. At this point the state goes from Valid to Pending. Later the state is changed from Pending to Active based on one of the possible criteria given in Table 1.0. An example of a change in states for fault management services is set forth. The SSM puts the valid state into an active state then looks to the sensor to see if a service already exists on a sensor. The SSM will first try to retire the old state on the sensor by sending a message to the sensor. The SSM will then try to bring the new state to valid and replace the retired state on the sensor. At the point where the state is successfully retired by the SSM the sensor may have no states until the new state is provisioned by the SSM . If the SSM fails to retire the active state the SSM will move the new state status from Pending to Fail. When the service is in a Fail state a user may initiate a request to modify or restore a service state. A state may Fail for a number of reasons for example if a node is down or if the network is down. Once a verification of the node network or other reason causing the Fail state is restored the SSM will begin the process again from Valid to Pending and moves forward until the state is Active.

In an example of the invention there is provided a system and method operable in conjunction with real time management of Fault Configuration Accounting Performance Security and Control for updating information items in elements of wireless and converged network nodes and in the Sensor Service Management System. An example method comprises the steps of a a sensor service management system defining and maintaining a master or golden copy of the network configurations sensor attributes and network elements b the sensors determining which information items of said network elements are of a type which must change in real time based on a pre emptive diagnostics of network elements and network clusters c the sensor systems generating instructions to the Service Management System and other sensors using bit mapped vectors to represent real time status of network elements network management types FCAPS and Control and non optimal components of network elements d responsive to the instructions from a sensor the recipient sensor performs real time analysis and determines corrective actions to maintain optimal network operations and network services e responsive to the instructions from the sensor system the sensor service management system updates the master or golden copy of the network topology and network element attributes and the sensor service management instructs operation support systems about the real time status of the network and components of the network elements. The method may further comprise the step of the sensor systems performing real time control of heterogeneous streams of Fault Configuration Performance Accounting Security and Control services in wireless and converged network element nodes. Additionally the method may further comprise the step of the sensor service management system performing real time provisioning of heterogeneous streams of Fault Configuration Performance Accounting Security and Control services in wireless and converged network element nodes. Yet further the method may further comprise the step of the service creation system and the sensor service management system performing service version management for Fault Configuration Performance Accounting Security and Control service instances.

With reference to one embodiment of the SSM architecture may comprise four components a Network Management Service Creation Interface NM SCI a Visual Interface a Host and a Network Element and Operation Support Systems Interface . The NM SCI allows the FCAPS service and control templates to be installed on the SSM . The Visual Interface provides support for administrative and service customization. For example types of Visual Interfaces may be a web browser graphical user interface GUI or any other interface known to a person having ordinary skill in the art. The interface may be used by a security specialist to customize the security traffic control service elements to the requirements of the HSE . Types of service customizations may include validation verification editing of decision graphs specifications of attributes exceptions threshold values administrative policies and constraints. The service customizations may be stored on the SSM and provisioned to an HSE .

The Host may comprise of subsystems including an HSE CHSE Network Topology HSE CHSE Network Management Controls and FCAPS Service Elements . The HSE CHSE Network Topology Subsystem may partition the Access and Core network topology into logical clusters and creates graph representations of each cluster. Each cluster comprises an HSE . Each graph representation may be represented by a set of nodes within the cluster. The HSE CHSE Network Topology Subsystem may maintain a copy of the logical network topology. Additionally the SSM may configure an HSE as a supervisory HSE in both the Access and the Core Network s clusters. The HSE CHSE network management control subsystem is the set of all executable network management controls defined for both the Access and Core network topologies. The HSE CHSE Network Management Control Subsystem may maintain the copy of all controls which may include administrative policies provisioned to the HSE . The FCAPS Service Element Subsystem is the set of executable customized services defined for FCAPS. The FCAPS Service Element Subsystem may maintain a copy provisioned to the HSE .

The Network Element and Operations Support Systems Interface may comprise a Service Provisioning Subsystem a View Management subsystem and an Audit Query subsystem . The Network Element and Operations Support Systems Interface may facilitate real time communications with the HSE and communications with an Operating Support Systems OSS . The OSS may be autonomous. The Service Provisioning Subsystem may distribute service codes to the HSE in real time. The process of distribution may include the capability to insert service codes delete existing service codes or modify components of service codes on the HSE . The View Management Subsystem may create and manage integrated views of an end to end network. The View may provide snapshots of the health of the network elements and the network topology. The Audit Query Subsystem may manage schedule and real time audits queries of the HSE . The Audit Query may be initiated by either the OSS or end users via the Visual Interface . The OSS computes the detailed network management analysis of the Access and Core network clusters.

With reference to is an alternate non limiting embodiment of the SSM . This embodiment of the SSM may comprise three subsystems a service manager subsystem ServiceMS a sensor manager subsystem SensorMS and a network element subsystem NetworkES . The ServiceMS may comprise a Fault manager a configuration manager an Accounting manager a Performance manager a Security manager collectively referred to as FCAPS a FCAPS database a Control manager and a Controls database . Each manager in the FCAPS may manage its own services. Each manager in the FCAPS may modify its own services. Modify means to create a mapping of what services exist in a given node. Each manager knows the mapping of where each service or services is deployed. Similarly the control manager has a mapping of what types of controls are deployed at each node. Typically only management services are performed in the ServiceMS . For example the states identified in Table 1.0 may be monitored in the ServiceMS . The monitoring may provide the ServiceMS with attributes of what service resides on what node the type of node and what the current state of the node may be. The SensorMS may comprise a Sensor Manager and a Sensor database . The Sensor Manager may perform provisioning auditing or sensor service management. The SensorMS may take the service that resides on the SSM and provision the services on different nodes. The sensor database has a database of all the sensor services and where it may reside. The sensor manager may also initiate an audit of the sensors to verify what state they are in i.e. active state valid state . For example if a user wants to retire a service the sensor manager will perform an audit to see if the service exists on a given sensor. Once the results are returned from the audit additional steps are taken to implement a service. The NetworkES may comprise a Sensor Network Manager a Sensor Network Topology Database and an OSS Manager . The Sensor Network Topology Database may provide the NetworkES with information on how network clusters are arranged. An additional illustration of a real time network management of a cluster and the inner workings of the NetworkES is shown in . With reference to the HSE or Supervisory HSE not shown controls the sensors. The HSE may send bit patterns to the NetworkES or the SSM . This information may be stored in the Sensor Network Topology Database for a particular core network. The Sensor Database keeps at least two types of records. The current state and the previous state of the HSE . The previous state deployed is located in the sensor database and may be time stamped as to when the data was collected. The SensorMS may provide a time stamped view of the core network to the OSS or to the OSS manager who transmits the view to the OSS . The OSS may then analyze the results and displays graphical simulations of traffic in the core network. Also the ServiceMS may provide a definition of HSE in the core network topology to the OSS or it may go through the OSS manager . Additionally the OSS Manager may communicate with an OSS via a GUI. It is possible to have a number of OSS within the Model . If different OSSs are present there may be different interfaces to different protocols supporting the different OSSs . For example when there is a query to determine what a network comprises the sensor network topology database provides snapshots of each sensor attribute. These snapshots may reside within the sensor network topology database or may be delivered as a result of various information contained within the sensor network topology database . The information from the sensor network topology database in then communicated to the OSS either directly or via the OSS manager by pulling the information from the sensor network topology database or pushing the information from the NetworkES .

With reference to an embodiment of a Heterogeneous Sensor Entity HSE which may be embedded in an environment such as a computer network nodes or network elements i.e. routers including edge routers core and access routers for example switches servers or multiplexers may be used with sound engineering judgment . The HSE may be dependant or independent of the device s hardware component. The architecture of the HSE may comprise two distinct layers a Service API Platform SAP and a HSE runtime service environment RTSE as illustrated in . Runtime environment is an environment which may provide support services for processes or programs on a node. The SAP is a middleware that may be embedded in a host and residing in a given node. The SAP may provide support to the RTSE and may provide access to the network protocols that already exists in the node. This support may include providing the RTSE with privileged access to low level host Operating System calls utilization of the transport protocols and abstraction of the host hardware device. For example when a system is running there are specific functions that a user cannot be able to perform based on their level of access. The level of access not granted to a user is called a privilege access to the lower level protocols. Privilege access are functions that only a user labeled level 1 or level 0 can perform. 1 meaning you can perform a function where 0 means you cannot perform a function. The 1 to perform or 0 not to perform a function may be reversed based on the desire of the programmer. The SAP may provide the FCAPS and Control manager with privilege access to these lower level protocols. The SAP having such access becomes an integral part of the host due to this permission being granted while the system is running. Additionally the SAP may provide the RTSE with runtime data structures of pertinent host applications. Data structure means the application make up mapping. This allows the API to emulate the service because it has this access to the structure. The RTSE may provide support to the applications after the services are running on the nodes. The RTSE may contain the executable network management services and controls. The executable services may be turned on off via a host application layer e.g. browser interface if desired. The RTSE may emulate the host applications and host hardware devices for fault configuration accounting performance and security. The RTSE may activate prescribed network management controls to enforce load balancing in real time and it may remove controls when the network traffic transitions to a stable state.

With reference to is another non limiting embodiment of the HSE . In this non limiting embodiment the HSE may comprise an Application Layer a Message Transport Layer MTL a Control Management Layer and a Low Level Hardware Dependant Application Programming Interface API as illustrated in . The application layer hosts the service elements provisioned by the SSM . The Application Layer provides the runtime environment to emulate designated hardware device operations and to execute Decision Graphs. The MTL provides low level messaging and Input Output I O communication. For example the MTL provides I O for HSE peer to peer HSE to HSE HSE to SSM and Supervisory HSE to SSM communications. The Control Management Layer implements activates and removes network management controls. The network control activation and removal is based on real time performance data. For example when the HSE or supervisory HSE detects an internal stimulus it analyzes the performance data then the controls are activated or removed depending on the results of the real time analysis. One purpose of having the ability to activate remove and modify controls is to keep network operation near max efficiency under network anomalies and to alter network traffic flow based on admin policies and objectives. The Lower Level Hardware Dependent API provides an abstraction of hardware resources for measuring functions. These functions may include fault configuration accounting performance and security metrics. The HSE stores network administrative policies in directories and retrieves and interprets administrative policies prior to implementing network management controls. The HSE hosts customized network management service elements and provides runtime environment for autonomous network management monitoring and control function. The HSE behavior is based on its managed device s state and local surroundings each state and surrounding may have different characteristics from other managed devices within the same cluster. Additionally the HSE may be provisioned by the SSM with supervisory functioning capabilities for managing HSE s in its network cluster. Each network cluster may include a supervisory HSE which coordinates the network management and control activity of the HSE within its network cluster. An example of a benefit of having a supervisory HSE is when an HSE located within a cluster becomes unreachable. The supervisory HSE may now serve as a conduit to the remainder of the Model . The architecture of the supervisory HSE may be identical to the architecture of the HSE . Additionally HSE may communicate with additional HSE s in real time which may prevent the system from overloading or experiencing congestion. For example illustrates the HSE assisting with Automatic Congestion Control ACC . When the node level cycle exceeds a predetermined length of time to complete assigned tasks for reason such as additional work load the HSE senses the congestion within the node sends ACC indicators bit mapped vectors to an HSE or supervisory HSE depending on the framework and the neighboring HSE s . The HSE may instruct other HSEs to avoid using the node a form of facilitating traffic. In real time the other nodes will take the troubled node off of the routing table and tells the other nodes to use a secondary route until the trouble node responds saying it is okay to continue traffic using the once troubled node. The supervisory HSE or the neighboring HSE s or both may activate controls that normalize the node in real time. Additionally the HSE or Supervisory HSE may activate controls to reroute traffic around the Access Gateway until the congestion in the network is resolved. Once the node base level cycle takes its normal time to complete the assigned task the HSE sends normal ACC indicators to the supervisory HSE or neighboring HSE s or both which continues to remove the previously activated controls. Additionally the HSE communicates with the SSM to facilitate real time network management and control operations.

Additionally the HSE may provide abstractions of hardware resources for measuring FCAPS metrics. The HSE detects counts and reports parameters using bit patterns 1 s and 0 s or by any other means known to a person having ordinary skill in the art. For example the HSE may send bit patterns to the Supervisory HSE or SSM indicating what type of hardware is experiencing problems. The abstractions allow the HSE to detect faults network overload traffic intra node congestions adjust configuration access parameters and to implement and remove network management controls.

In another non limiting embodiment the Model further comprises a Supervisory Heterogeneous Sensor Entity CHSE . The CHSE may perform real time communication with the SSM . The architecture and characteristics of the CHSE may be identical to the HSE or supervisory HSE . The CHSE may use the same communication methods as the HSE or the supervisory HSE . The CHSE may be provisioned by the SSM with supervisory functioning capabilities identical to the supervisory HSE . The CHSE may be present in the Access or Core network clusters with other HSE s where a supervisory HSE is not present. An example of a schematic illustration of analysis of real time multimedia network traffic management and control operations is shown in . With reference to the OSS performs a query for a GPRS and a Packet Core Network. This figure shows how the OSS may communicate with different types of networks. Additionally different networks can communicate with one another using the SSM . For example the HSE in the GPRS and Packet Core Network detect various counts for the dominant network parameters then notify their respective HSE to perform an analysis of their network cluster. If the GPRS is in trouble the SSM can sense where the trouble or congestion is coming from thus making the network is reliable by pinpointing the problem. Each HSE activates network management controls in the cluster based on the analysis. The HSE then sends an update to the SSM . The SSM creates a snapshot of the GPRS and the Packet Core network domains by updating the View of the GPRS and the Packet Core network domains in real time. The SSM then notifies OSS to perform a detailed network management analysis of the affected network domain. Additionally both the CHSE and HSE may include two types of executable FCAPS and Managerial. Any HSE may assume the role of a CHSE when its Managerial and FCAPS executables are both turned ON. In the case when there is an HSE FCAPS is ON but the Managerial component is OFF.

With reference to a Multimedia Network Traffic Management system framework for converged heterogeneous networks is shown. The Model is shown communicating with different network types i.e. WiMax LTE GPRS GSM Wireless IMS PSTN IN or any other types of networks known to a person having ordinary skill in the art . Older network types may also communicate using the Model to communicate with similar or newer technologies. Additionally different network types may communicate with other networks that are different from their own. The HSE may also communicate with neighboring HSEs positioned on different network types. The SSM continuously monitors each different network type in real time.

With reference to a Bit Vector Analysis is shown. The Alarm Level Indicators may be uniquely identified by the permutations in bit positions and . An originating HSE or CHSE may send the Query indicator to recipient HSE to request the status of the recipient s host. Network Management Types may be uniquely identified by the permutations in bit positions and . The bit positions . . . through n map to components e.g. processes hardware application resources drivers external interfaces etc. . . . n 5 for a given HSE. For example when the bit value is set to 1 it indicates that the component has an alarm level specified by the permutations in bit positions and for the network management type specified by permutations in bits and . A zero bit value may indicate optimal functionality of the associated HSE component.

With continued reference to and now examples of bit vector diagnosis is shown. Example 1 illustrates the sending originating HSE CHSE s host in optimal state. Example 2 illustrates the sending originating HSE CHSE s host is stable but a slight performance degradation is detected in component . Example 3 illustrates a minor alarm in the configuration of component for sending originating HSE CHSE s host. In Example 4 the host HSE or CHSE sends a Query message to other HSEs for status of their security levels. In Example 5 the HSE or CHSE sends an optimal security levels for its host Notice that bit positions . . . n are set to 0 . In Example 6 the HSE or CHSE sends a stable but less optimal security level due to security status of host s component . In Example 7 the HSE or CHSE sends a minor security alarm indicator associated with the host s component .

While the invention has been illustrated and described with respect to various examples and applications i.e. use with 4G networks the same is to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive in character. Older networks types i.e. 1G 3.5G etc. that may be operable in specific areas are still capable of being managed by the invention described herein and it being understood that only illustrative embodiments thereof have been shown and described. All changes and modifications that come within the spirit of the invention described by the following claims are desired to be protected. Additional features of the invention will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon consideration of the description. Modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

