---

title: Systems and methods for mobile ordering and payment
abstract: Computer implemented methods and systems for fulfilling a customer request for a requested item purchased from a merchant is provided. The method may be performed by a tangibly embodied processing machine disposed in a customer device. The method may include (1) observing, through the input of information, an observed event that is associated with a customer; (2) associating the observed event with a corresponding order record; (3) retrieving order information from the corresponding order record, the order information including at least customer financial entity account information; (4) generating a merchant request based at least in part on the order information in the corresponding order record, the merchant request including at least customer identification information and customer financial entity account information; and (5) outputting the merchant request to the designated merchant, so as to provide the designated merchant with information to fulfill the customer request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09230259&OS=09230259&RS=09230259
owner: JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A.
number: 09230259
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100510
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 288 029 filed Dec. 18 2009 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 180 218 filed May 21 2009 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 489 066 filed Jun. 22 2009 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application 61 162 169 filed Mar. 20 2009. The content of both incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

In the present fast paced environment people make a variety of purchases using traditional payment methods. To support such payment methods an extensive financial infrastructure is utilized. For example the credit card and financial system associated therewith is widely used. However the current financial infrastructure is insufficient in some respects to provide desired convenience for people. For example the ease and efficiency of performing routine transactions is lacking using various of today s commonplace technologies. Also the tracking and recording of travel records cost records and similar records may be difficult and inefficient especially for corporate travelers who often maintain separate records for personal purchases and business purchases. Therefore improvements to the current financial infrastructure is needed to accommodate the evolving needs of people in their busy and complex lives.

Computer implemented methods and systems for fulfilling a customer request for a requested item purchased from a merchant is provided. The method may be performed by a tangibly embodied processing machine disposed in a customer device. The method may include 1 observing through the input of information an observed event that is associated with a customer 2 associating the observed event with a corresponding order record 3 retrieving order information from the corresponding order record the order information including at least customer financial entity account information 4 generating a merchant request based at least in part on the order information in the corresponding order record the merchant request including at least customer identification information and customer financial entity account information and 5 outputting the merchant request to the designated merchant so as to provide the designated merchant with information to fulfill the customer request. A wide variety of other features and embodiments are disclosed.

Hereinafter aspects of the inventive mobile payment system in accordance with various embodiments of the invention will be described. As used herein any term in the singular may be interpreted to be in the plural and alternatively any term in the plural may be interpreted to be in the singular.

The invention provides for a mobile payment system and related processing of transactions with enhanced convenience and record keeping capabilities as well as various other features. For example in accordance with some embodiments of the invention a customer i.e. a user is enabled to identify an item to purchase effect an event to trigger a transaction to purchase the item from a merchant settle the transaction with the merchant and a financial entity over a payment network using a customer device without having to deal with any physical handling of a funds transfer and secure the item. Various other processing is described.

The customer device or similar term as used herein may include any mobile device cell phone land phone smart phone car phone computer terminal texting device RFID Radio frequency identification device GPS Global positioning Satellite enabled device PDA personal digital assistant satellite radio device voice over IP device and or any other device that is adapted to perform processing as described herein.

A customer may interface with a customer device using any of a wide variety of ways depending in particular on the capabilities of the customer device and or what applications are utilized by the customer device to interface with the customer. Accordingly for any of the features described herein the customer device might interface with the customer using any of key sequence key strokes presentation and selection of icons or other graphical representation touch screen voice recognition a device utilizing textile features LED light emitting diode enabled device push notification enabled features media message enabled features and or any other type of interface that allows the customer to communicate information to and from the customer device.

Further any communication channel or communication protocol that is associated with such a customer device may be utilized. Such customer device may effect the communications as described herein using any suitable data such as numbers characters transmission and or signal for example. Any number as described herein may include any characters including in particular alphanumerics.

The payment network or similar term as used herein may include a telecommunication payment network a telecommunication network a payment network Internet extranet intranet and or some other network or part of a network that provides for communications to effect a transaction for example. Relatedly the use of a VISA or MASTERCARD network is described herein for example. However it is appreciated that other payment networks may well be used that have none or only some relationship to VISA or MASTERCARD or with AMERICAN EXPRESS or DISCOVER for example. For example a particular bank or other financial entity may well utilize a network maintained by such particular bank or other financial entity.

A transaction as described herein may be funded by an available payment mechanism. A payment mechanism i.e. a payment method or similar term as used herein may include any of a credit card debit card gift card stored value card rewards card stored benefit card store card club card prepaid card points card some other type of card some other account e.g. checking or saving PAYPAL account food stamps tab and or any other arrangement which results in a debit being accorded to an account associated with such arrangement i.e. such debit being in the form of monetary funds points or some other accounting mechanism for example.

A transaction might be initiated by any methodology as desired such as the customer running a card through a magnetic reader some other type of card swipe physical entry of a sequence e.g. a PIN personal identification number at the POS the customer tapping his customer device against a contactless card reader interfacing with a reader in some other manner either wirelessly e.g. BLUETOOTH or by physical contact an observed position or orientation of the customer device any other manner as described herein and or in any other manner such that an event may be observed so as to initiate a desired transaction.

A financial entity or similar term as used herein means any financial institution that maintains or is associated with a payment mechanism of a customer from which funds or points are drawn to fund the activity as described herein. Accordingly a financial entity may include a traditional bank such as JPMorgan Chase and or a payment entity such as PAYPAL for example.

As described herein it is appreciated that the mobile payment system may be used with a wide variety of merchants. A merchant or similar term as used herein means any entity that offers an item for purchase. The merchant might include any restaurant coffee shop or quick service related merchant for example. The item for purchase may be any product service widget or any other output that is available for purchase for example. The particular processing described herein in connection with the purchase of one item of course may be used with any other item. For example while various processing is described herein in connection with the purchase of coffee related items such described processing may be used for the purchase of any other item.

As used herein communicates interfaces transmits inputs outputs and similar terms have been used interchangeably.

It is appreciated that any feature described herein may be used in conjunction with any other feature described herein.

As described in detail below a merchant such as a restaurant may be provided with processing capability to perform the processing described herein so as to be a mobile eligible restaurant i.e. a mobile payment eligible or mobile payment restaurant for example. In accordance with one illustrative embodiment of the invention a customer might first confirm that the restaurant at which they are planning to dine is such a mobile eligible restaurant . This might be performed for example by sending an alert to the customer as they walk into the particular restaurant.

In this example in conjunction with placing an order with a waitress the customer indicates that they participate in mobile payments i.e. a mobile payment program and agreement is reached between the customer and the waitress that the mobile payment program will be used to effect the transaction i.e. to pay for lunch. The customer proceeds with ordering i.e. they order their lunch by verbally conveying the requested lunch items to the waitress.

The waitress then goes back to interface with the restaurant s collection order system e.g. a physical kiosk or other tangibly embodied system and enters in the requested order. In addition the waitress enters information that conveys that the order is in the mobile payment program as well as information to convey the identity of the customer. For example such information might include a mobile payment program number of the customer or some other number or identification of the customer.

At a point or in an ongoing manner the purchase information i.e. the data regarding the items purchased at lunch is transmitted from the restaurant s system to the payment network. Thereafter data is transmitted from the payment network and a financial entity such as a card issuer bank to the customer device such that the customer can review confirm the purchase information. That is the customer can review and verify that the merchant has entered the correct products or services into their collection order system. Upon completion of ordering items at the restaurant the customer can close out the purchase completing the transaction. With the transaction thus being completed using the mobile payment program no further action is needed by the customer i.e. prior to the customer leaving the restaurant.

In an exemplary embodiment the customer may have one or more payment mechanisms i.e. payment methods associated with the mobile payment program from which the customer may provide funds needed for a purchase. Other allocations selections may be presented to the customer i.e. such as whether to allocate a particular purchase to their personal recordkeeping log or business recordkeeping log for example.

In order for merchants and customers to participate in the mobile payment program the merchant customer may be required to initially register with the mobile payment program i.e. at some time prior to performing a transaction. In conjunction with the registration or at some time after registration the customer may download or in some way activate an application programming interface API of the payment network on the customer device. Merchants may also secure a suitable API. The API may thus provide the various features and customer experiences as described herein.

The customer device may transmit one or more authorization messages to the payment network to authorize the payment network to pay the merchant. Also the customer device may directly provide the authorization messages to the collection order system of the merchant and allow the merchant to provide the authorization messages to the payment network to collect the payment. Various other features are provided. For example variations of the data transmitted between the customer device restaurant payment network and financial entities i.e. the customer s card issuer financial entity for example are provided.

Accordingly the systems and methods of the invention relate to a variety of processing in particular in conjunction with a customer device. In accordance with one aspect of the invention such processing generally deals with the initiation of a payment event at a point of sale identifying that the payment event is happening and being able to intercept and hold the payment event at particular stage s at which point desired processing is performed. In summary the invention might be characterized as a type of enhanced transaction processing layer which supports the various offered functionality.

Such functionally may relate to customer ordering and related processing customer payment related processing use of rules in payment scenarios the use of coupons including URL and decay processing the sharing of information e.g. tell your friends you re at the local coffee house GPS and other location related processing use of photo imaging technology various authentication processing including two key authentication offer matching integration of multiple customer devices and various other experiences processing for example.

In short aspects of the invention relate to an extensive set of integrated customer experiences that the financial entity for example can drive i.e. when able to accurately initiate an experience using a payment event inclusive of the various steps involved in such payment event.

The mPay system and services portion and the mPay device interface portion may be characterized to constitute a front end system and a back end system respectively. The processing performed by the MP processing portion may be allocated to the mPay system and services portion front end system and the mPay device interface portion back end system in a variety of ways to provide efficient and effective processing. For example the mPay system and services portion may be disposed in the authorization transaction flow to input a requested transaction perform initial processing and interface with an issuer of a card used in the transaction. On the other hand the mPay device interface portion may be provided to based on the transaction information it receives from the mPay system and services portion interface with a variety of back end systems to secure information to satisfy the controlling instructions of the customer. That is a set of instructions to use in processing the requested transaction may be provided by the mPay system and services portion and or the mPay device interface portion i.e. by the front end system and or at the back end system. In general the mPay system and services portion and the mPay device interface portion may interface to exchange a variety of information in conjunction with processing a transaction.

In the embodiments described below various architectures are set forth to provide mobile payment processing. Some embodiments include the architecture of a front end system and a back end system i.e. akin to . Alternatively some embodiments include an architecture in which the front end system and the back end system are essentially integrated into a single processing portion.

However many embodiments provide one core architecture pattern of the invention. That is a basic architecture pattern of the invention includes inputting a purchase event with an amount of money associated with it referencing a set of instructions that the customer wants to perform in conjunction with that purchase event and going ahead and performing those instructions for the purchase event through interfacing with a series of back end systems.

Within this basic architecture pattern differences in the processing of various types of transactions relate to the manner in how the particular transaction comes in to the mobile payment processing portion. That is sometimes a transaction may come in though a traditional point of sale cash register type device at a merchant for example. Alternatively sometimes a transaction may come in from two different areas i.e. information for the transaction comes in from two or more sources one of which might be the merchant . This information from multiple sources then is matched up in processing the transaction. Different embodiments also relate to the manner in which the processing is allocated between respective processing portions e.g. allocated between a front end system and or a back end system as depicted in for example.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention shows processing effected by the MP processing portion in an illustrative transaction. Such processing is generally delineated by the numerical progression of steps 1 through 15 .

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention as shown at 1 the processing is initiated when the customer i.e. the user uses existing POS Point of Sale technology to initiate the transaction such as by tapping his customer device against the contactless card reader to initiate the transaction.

At 2 the mPay transaction i.e. the mobile payment system uses a Visa MasterCard Bin to route across the particular association network i.e. the payment network to the mPay system . As delineated at 3 the mPay system and services portion is positioned within the authorization transaction flow to input the transaction.

At 4 the mPay system and services portion evaluates the transaction against the customer s configuration. Such customer s configuration may be stored in a record table in a customer record in accordance with one embodiment of the invention as described in detail below. In turn the customer record includes order records as also described below with reference to in particular. Thus the record table is used by the transaction server to associate an input transaction with a set of instructions that the customer wants to perform in conjunction with that purchase event. In the example of based on the customer s configuration i.e. the record table the mPay system and services portion determines that card information is needed from an external system e.g. from Chase servicing.

At 5 The mPay system and services portion sends a communication to the mPay device interface portion requesting such card information.

At 6 The mPay device interface portion communicates with Chase servicing to secure the needed information. The information indicates that the card to use in the particular time window i.e. the time of day that the transaction was effected is the customer s CHASE FREEDOM CARD.

At 7 The mPay device interface portion communicates the needed information back to the mPay system and services portion .

At 8 based on the customer s configuration information the mPay system and services portion converts the mPay account number to the customer s identified Chase Freedom Card and 9 routes the authorization to the issuer or other designated entity for approval.

At 10 the transaction is processed by the issuer of the customer s CHASE FREEDOM CARD and results are transmitted back across the payment network such as a Visa MasterCard network via the mPay system and services portion to the merchant.

At 11 the mPay system and services portion creates a content rich digital receipt for the transaction including merchant specific content such as a Merchant logo s for example.

At 12 the mPay system and services portion forwards the receipt to the mPay device interface portion to append further information

At 13 The mPay device interface portion appends further information to the receipt including at 14 pulling contact information from a location information external source. Such location information relates to the location particulars of the merchant for example

At 15 in the mPay device interface portion sends the content rich digital receipt to the customer device. In sending the receipt push interfaces carrier networks and or other communication processing may be utilized.

As described in detail herein there are numerous variations to the above processing. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the mPay system and services portion and or the mPay device interface portion may be used so as to provide a desired processing speed in responding to transaction requests. To explain a response time may be desired that approaches real time response. As used herein real time means a range from fractions of a second to a few seconds after a prior event has occurred. In order to provide such real time capability it may not be workable for the mPay system and services portion to input the transaction request then communicate with the mPay device interface portion to retrieve information to process the transaction request. Also there may not be processing time to provide for the mPay device interface portion to communicate with external systems to secure further needed information. In order to provide such real time processing the mPay system and services portion may handle the transaction request on its own without interfacing with the mPay device interface portion or external systems. Relatedly certain tradeoffs may be imposed. For example in order to provide real time processing the functionality provided by the MP processing portion may be limited in some manner.

In accordance with other embodiments of the invention either the mPay system and services portion the mPay device interface portion and or other processing portions in the MP processing portion may hold transaction information relating to a requested transaction until such processing portion receives further information from another processing portion. In other words a first processing portion may sit waiting for information from a second processing portion. Illustratively in prior to the mPay system and services portion outputting authorization for the transaction to the merchant the mPay system and services portion may communicate with the customer via the mPay device interface portion in order to secure approval from the customer. Accordingly the mPay system and services portion sits waiting for the approval to come back from the customer. Once the approval is received then the mPay device interface portion proceeds with outputting the authorization to the merchant.

In the embodiment of as well as other embodiments described herein an aspect of the processing may include that to effect the transaction the customer interfaces with the merchant in a limited manner or indeed that the customer does not interface with the merchant at all. That is for example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the MP processing portion respectively interfaces with the merchant and interfaces with the customer without there ever being a linkage between the merchant and the customer.

With further reference to the processing of the embodiment of is a high level flow chart showing a mobile ordering process in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. As shown the process first starts in step with the customer physically entering a mobile that is mobile payment eligible restaurant i.e. a merchant that participates in a mobile payment program so as to utilize the various features described herein.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention after being seated the customer first verbally orders lunch by talking with a waitress and the customer conveys to the waitress that they would like to use the mobile payment program as shown in step of . In step the waitress then interfaces with the merchant system . That is the waitress enters into the merchant system the particulars of the ordered lunch i.e. items ordered and the price of those items or the price comes up automatically .

Then in step in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the merchant system transmits the information regarding the order to the MP processing portion which in this embodiment is in the customer s cell phone customer device for example . As reflected in step of the MP processing portion using the cell phone interface presents the particulars of the order to the customer for approval and in turn the customer interfaces with the customer device to indicate their approval. Upon receiving the customer s approval such as by the customer tapping a displayed icon displayed on the customer device in step the MP processing portion interfaces with the merchant system to acknowledge that approval has been received. Also in step the MP processing portion retrieves customer account information that contains the customer billing information. This might be performed by retrieving a particular record associated with the customer as discussed further below. Other information in a record associated with the particular customer may also be retrieved in particular other information relating to how the transaction is to be processed. The MP processing portion then sends the billing information along with the communication to the merchant system . Such communication may be sent in conjunction with data reflecting that the customer has a financial account that may be debited for the requested transaction i.e. confirmation that the customer is good for the funds. 

Thereafter in step the merchant system interfaces with the financial entity processing portion to secure approval of the debit of the user s account associated with the transaction i.e. based on the billing information that was input from the MP processing portion .

Also in step the merchant system presents confirmation to the waitress that the transaction has been approved. Also as shown in step a communication may be sent to the MP processing portion for presentment to the customer via the customer device that the merchant system has received approval for lunch and that the transaction is complete.

Such described processing including presenting the customer with the details of the order and securing authorization from the financial entity processing portion may be done once at the conclusion of a lunch for example or might be done in an ongoing or periodic manner e.g. as further items are ordered.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the invention it is appreciated that processing similar to that shown in may be performed without human interaction to effect payment. For example in the scenario of instead of the customer interfacing with the waitress regarding use of the mobile payment system the customer device might talk directly with a MP processing portion to effect payment. For example the particular merchant such as a restaurant may provide a MP processing portion at some appropriate location to interface with the customer upon the customer entering the merchant s place of business. Such MP processing portion might be located adjacent the entrance or at a host s stand for example. Upon the customer entering the restaurant and approaching the MP processing portion the customer might take some action to initiate communications between the MP processing portion and the customer device . Such action might be the flick of the customer device the tap of a button generated upon the customer device and the MP processing portion sensing one another or in some other manner. Thereafter the waitress would be alerted that the customer was using mobile payment and would interface with the customer to provide the requested services such as the ordered food items. However the waitress in this embodiment would not interact with the customer regarding payment but might rather simply confirm in some manner that the provided items were included in the mobile payment transaction.

At the termination of the customer experience at the particular merchant the customer would take some action to indicate such. Such action might include interfacing with their customer device to indicate that the experience was to terminate and that the amount due should be settled. Thereafter processing would be performed to complete the transaction including communications between the customer device the merchant system the MP processing portion and the financial entity processing portion .

It is appreciated that the described or similar functionality might be utilized in a variety of environments. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention a movie theater may be provided with a MP processing portion at a particular entrance to the theater labeled as such. Upon the customer s approach to the entrance the MP processing portion would sense the customer device and communications would be initiated between the customer device and the MP processing portion . Once adjacent the MP processing portion the customer might be prompted to take some action with the customer device vis vis the MP processing portion so as to pass into the theater. For example such action might be a flick of the customer device or a tap on an icon displayed by the customer device . Such processing could be performed on a number of persons basis i.e. by indicating how many persons should be admitted and the corresponding amount charged. Alternatively the customer might perform the designated action for each person i.e. to allow payment by the customer of persons amongst persons who the customer is not paying. In other words the processing would allow the customer to pass with flick payment friend 1 to pass with flick payment stranger to pass without payment and friend 2 to pass with flick payment. Such processing might be used in a wide variety of environments such as in a transit authority metro environment in passing through a turnstile in an entertainment venue such as an art gallery or theme park and or in conjunction with interface with a vending machine such as to purchase a ticket candy drink rent a movie and or any other item for example.

As reflected in the mobile payment processing portion may be in various forms. For example the mobile payment processing portion may be a discreet processing portion i.e. vis vis the other components of the mobile payment system . Such a discreet processing portion might be constituted by a specialized mobile computing device and customer computer or a kiosk for example. On the other hand the mobile payment processing portion might be integrated into one or more of the portions and either physically or from a processing perspective. For example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention as described herein the mobile payment processing portion may be integrated into the customer device such that the above described communications to the merchant system and financial entity processing portion are indeed sent from the customer device i.e. having been generated by the mobile payment processing portion in response to receiving the particular keystrokes from the user.

Thereafter as shown in in communication 5 the merchant system sends a communication to the financial entity processing portion to secure authorization for the transaction. In one embodiment of the invention communication 5 is akin to the known commonly used request for approval that a merchant system sends to a financial entity authentication entity. Thus such one aspect of the processing might utilize known processing using the existing infrastructure in a payment network. Thus the financial entity processing portion in accordance with one embodiment of the invention sends approval to the merchant system in communication 6 such communication 6 utilizing known processing using the existing infrastructure. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the financial entity processing portion based on predetermined indicia i.e. parameters associated with the transaction request may identify that the transaction is indeed a mobile payment transaction and as a result send confirmation to the customer device in communication 7 of .

However the processing as shown in and the substantially parallel processing of is one progression i.e. sequence of communications that may be used in an embodiment of the invention. To explain one aspect of the invention is to provide a wide variety of user experiences that are performed effectively and efficiently. The experience of is driven initially by the merchant system . That is subsequent to the human customer interfacing with the human waitress the human waitress interfaces with the merchant system . From an automated processing perspective the merchant system initiates processing of the transaction by first interfacing with the waitress and then sending a communication to the MP processing portion .

In accordance with other embodiments of the invention and different user experiences other sequences of communications may be utilized. illustrates such a different user experience.

That is is a diagram indicating the sequential flow of communication of a transaction process in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention. The processing of might be characterized as a customer device initiated transaction. In the process of the processing is initiated by some trigger event that is experienced i.e. sensed by the customer device . For example the trigger event might be input by the customer interfacing with their customer device a time metric being attained e.g. at 8 pm a coffee order is initiated and or a location metric being attained e.g. a GPS trigger . Thus illustrates a different sequence of communications vis vis .

As shown in after the customer device experiences the trigger event the customer device sends a communication 1 to the MP processing portion . Based on such communication and parameters associated with the particular customer the MP processing portion sends a communication 2 to the merchant system . Such communication 2 provides details of the requested item e.g. the coffee drink that the customer has requested as well as the financial information i.e. financial entity account information of the customer.

Thereafter as shown in the merchant system sends an authorization request communication 3 to the financial entity processing portion . The financial entity processing portion responds with the transaction approval 4 or a decline if the transaction is not authorized. Assuming an approval after receiving the approval the merchant system generates an indication that the transaction has been approved and thus that the merchant workers should work to satisfy the requested item. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the merchant system then sends an indication 5 that the requested item is being prepared or is ready for pickup to the MP processing portion . The MP processing portion then transmits this information to the customer device as communication 6 .

That is in the process of after the customer device experiences a trigger event the customer device sends a communication 1 to the MP processing portion . Based on such communication 1 and parameters associated with the particular customer the MP processing portion sends a communication 2 to the financial entity processing portion . Such communication 2 might be characterized as a transaction request. The financial entity processing portion responds with the transaction approval 3 or a decline if the transaction is not authorized.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the customer device may be provided with functionality to interface the customer with particular administrative persons or systems. For example if the customer device receives a communication indicating that a transaction has been denied then functionality may be provided to generate a button to contact a customer service person i.e. the customer might tap the button on their mobile device and a call is put through to customer service. In general such processing may utilize a rule set that is responsive to particular observed criteria. When such particular criteria is observed the customer device responds by initiating a communication to a particular person or system. Such initiating might be performed by generating a tap button a prepared text message or in some other manner. For example a message displayed with the button might read You have been declined tap here to find out why. In response to tapping such button the customer might be connected with a live representative a chat room or be sent an automated message for example. In such manner the customer may be connected to a financial entity involved in the transaction the particular merchant and or some other third party entity. Assuming the financial entity processing portion approved the transaction after receiving the approval the MP processing portion generates a communication 4 that is sent to the merchant system . The communication 4 might be characterized as a merchant request. The merchant request 4 conveys information to the merchant system including that the requested transaction has been funded i.e. that an account of the customer has been debited for the requested item as well as the particulars of the requested item. For example the particulars may be the particular coffee drink that the customer has requested.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention as shown in the merchant system then sends a communication 5 to the MP processing portion . The communication 5 indicates the requested item is being prepared or is ready for pickup . The MP processing portion then transmits this information to the customer device as communication 6 . Accordingly the customer is provided such information indicating that the requested item is being prepared and or is ready for pick up.

As described further below in accordance with embodiments of the invention information may be captured sorted and or allocated in a variety of manners. In particular transaction receipt information may be captured sorted and or allocated.

In further illustration of the invention and as described below with reference to in accordance with one embodiment of the invention a person i.e. a customer is enabled to order a coffee drink with a few keystrokes on their cell phone as they are in route to the particular merchant. That is in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the customer registers with a mobile payment system as described below i.e. registers at some prior time. In conjunction with the registration or at some time after registration the customer selects favorites and particular merchants at which to purchase those favorites. The customer also selects an account to fund the purchase. For example the favorites might include two coffee drinks that the customer routinely purchases. Once registration is completed the customer is then ready to use the mobile payment system as desired e.g. in their daily routine. By selection of the favorites the customer is enabled to select one or more of the favorites by keystrokes to a customer device e.g. a cell phone.

For example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the customer is in route to the particular merchant. Once the customer has passed a particular estimated time of arrival ETA such as ten minutes for example the customer enters the predetermined keystroke into their cell phone so as to request their desired favorite. In response a communication is sent to the particular merchant to proceed with preparing the customer s desired item e.g. the customer s desired coffee drink for example. A communication is also sent to the appropriate financial entity processing system i.e. so as to effect the transaction that is to fund the purchase of the desired item.

Once the communication is received by the financial entity processing portion the financial entity processing portion in response effects the transaction to fund the purchase. For example the financial entity processing portion debits a predetermined credit card account of the user or in some other way effects the funds transfer to fund the desired transaction using any of a wide variety of payment mechanisms.

On the other hand once the communication including requested item information and financial entity account authorization is received by the particular merchant the merchant knows that the customer will be arriving shortly e.g. in the ten minutes and prepares the desired item accordingly. Thereafter the customer arrives and the coffee drink is ready and waiting for pick up having been already paid for.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the initial communication from the customer device is forwarded to a mobile payment processing portion. Once received based on the customer information in store i.e. stored in a suitable database from the data input at customer registration for example the mobile payment processing portion then forwards the appropriate communication to the financial entity as well as the appropriate communication to the merchant processing system as described.

Accordingly in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the mobile payment processing portion may secure authorization for the transaction from the financial entity processing portion prior to forwarding the communication to the merchant i.e. as shown in above.

Note that any of a wide variety of authentication techniques may be used in the systems and methods as described herein. In particular various techniques may be used to either authenticate the user to the merchant and or to authenticate the user to the financial entity i.e. to process a requested transaction.

It is further appreciated that any of a variety of communication processing may be used in conjunction with the features described herein. Various such communication processing is described throughout the present disclosure. For example the features described herein may be used in conjunction with the features described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 535 855 to Cahill issued Mar. 18 2003 entitled Push Banking System and Method which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. In summary in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the mobile payment system allows a customer with a few simple keystrokes to a cell phone to arrange the purchase of a desired item with minimal effort and without having to deal with any physical handling of a funds transfer. Additionally the systems and methods of embodiments provide for various other features.

In the example described above the customer enters a keystroke into their cell phone to initiate the order of a desired item. However various other arrangements may be utilized. For example the mobile payment system might utilize Global Positioning System GPS technology. For example the customer s position in their car may be monitored such then when the customer comes to within a predetermined proximity of the merchant the customer s order is automatically initiated and processed. Relatedly an order might be triggered when the customer enters into or passes through a particular geographical area i.e. when the customer drives down a particular road. In this example as well as in the other processing as described herein the mobile payment system may utilize a variety of rules. For example a rule might dictate that only when the customer is within proximity of the merchant during a certain time window e.g. 6 30 am to 7 30 am on a weekday will the order be put through. Alternatively a rule might dictate a first item order i.e. to be ordered when the customer approaches the merchant on the weekday and dictate a second item order when the customer approaches the merchant on the weekend. A wide variety of rules might be utilized as desired and such rules may be dependent on various parameters as desired such as geographical position direction of travel time of day day of the week attributes of the customer device and or other parameters. Such processing may utilize a customer record table as described further below to map observed events into a trigger to order a particular item. Alternatively certain observed events might trigger an order in some other manner. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention customer confirmation of the placement of a particular order might be required based on customer preference.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the merchant might receive the above described communication as shown in to prepare the order as well as a subsequent communication indicating that the customer has indeed arrived to pick up the order. Thus the merchant might provide curb side service to the customer using the mobile payment system . Various helpful information might be provided to the merchant to assist the merchant in delivering the desired item to the merchant such as the particulars of the customer s car or a picture of the customer displayed to the merchant i.e. so the merchant can recognize the particular customer.

In further explanation in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the merchant system upon receipt of a mobile payment request may print a tab that is used by the merchant worker in preparing the requested item. The tab might be in any of a variety of forms such that information associated with the tab by the merchant system may be associated with the physical requested item. In one form the tab might be a small sheet of paper with the needed information printed thereon. The sheet of paper might be provided with an adhesive surface so as to be affixable to the customer s purchased item e.g. a sticky tab affixed to the customer s coffee drink. It is appreciated that any information regarding the customer s purchase that is contained on a printed tab may alternatively be simply provided on the merchant s system e.g. on a computer display and vice a versa. Further there may be multiple tabs printed for a particular purchase. One tab may contain the order information with the customer s name picture and requested item while a second tab to be affixed to the same requested item contains a targeted ad or some other promotional content. Other tabs containing other content may also be provided. Further a single tab might contain multiple orders.

The tab that is affixed to the requested item may contain information such as time to begin to prepare the requested item time that the requested item should be ready for pick up a nickname i.e. an alias such as RoadWarrior to call the customer s order out a picture of the customer some other manifestation of the customer such as a caricature and or any other information to identify the customer. Further the information on the tab might contain other information such as targeted add information a saying of the day information regarding the customer s account from the financial entity processing portion information regarding the customer s buying experience or history at the merchant from the merchant system and or any other information that might be associated with the user e.g. based on a user s profile and or useful enjoyable by the user or the merchant.

It is also appreciated that any of such information that might be printed on the tab might also be presented in some other manner such as via a merchant terminal for example. shows such a merchant terminal.

Relatedly in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the MP processing portion provides for a user to upload information i.e. any of the herein described information that might be affixed to a tab such that the uploaded information may be presented to the merchant as described herein. For example the customer might upload their picture so as to be displayed to the merchant worker or so as to be printed on the tab as described above.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the placement of an order such that the mobile payment system i.e. the MP processing portion forwards a respective communication to the merchant system and financial entity processing portion might be triggered by interface of the customer device with a device at the merchant. For example the customer device might interface with the merchant via RFID Radio frequency identification technology such that the customer does not need to wait in line for example. It is appreciated that known RFID technology may be used in conjunction with the features described herein. For example the features described herein may be used in conjunction with the features described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 630 595 filed Aug. 1 2000 entitled System and Method for Transponder enabled Account Transactions which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. As described above to fund the desired transaction the financial entity processing portion debits a predetermined account of the user to effect the funds transfer. It is appreciated that any of a wide variety of payment mechanisms may be used as described herein.

In conjunction with a mobile payment transaction it is appreciated that there may be a wide variety of communications utilized in the mobile payment system such as between the customer device MP processing portion financial entity and the merchant for example. As described herein such communications may provide various information between the customer and the merchant for example such as that the desired item is ready for pick up the name or alias of the customer to call out once the item is ready for pick up a time that the item will be ready for pick up the merchant is unable to provide the item at the current time e.g. the coffee house is out of muffins the customer has arrived outside the merchant s business and or any other desired communication information. Such communications may be utilized to resolve the disposition of an order. For example if a customer has not picked up a prepared requested item a communication may be sent to the customer requesting confirmation that the customer is coming or in some other manner resolve the disposition of the order e.g. using a set of rules protocols. Further such rules protocols may vary based on particular parameters such as the customer location device that the customer is using nature of the product e.g. shelf life of the product time of day week and or customer preference for example. Once a given number of reminders are sent a final communication may be sent to cancel a pending order. In general in the various embodiments described herein rules may be implemented to enhance the customer experience and avoid disconnects and or shortcomings between a placed order a paid for item that is not picked up a customer s anticipation of an order that is not ready and or other expectations of the customer or merchant.

The systems and methods of embodiments may be provided with functionality to prevent fraud. If fraud is suspected suitable communications may be sent to the customer or other entity for investigation.

Further is a block diagram showing the MP processing portion in further detail in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. The MP processing portion may be in the form of a tangibly embodied computer processing device i.e. a physical machine for example.

As shown in the components of the MP processing portion perform the various processing described herein. In addition to the processing performed by the MP processing portion in general inclusive in the MP processing portion are specialized processing portions that perform particular mobile payment processing. These specialized processing portions include the communication portion the transaction request generation portion the merchant request generation portion and the mobile payment database .

The communication portion performs various processing to provide communications between the MP processing portion and other processing portions such as the customer device the merchant system the financial entity processing portion and any other system and or resource such as a data resource disposed on the Internet. In accordance with embodiments of the invention the transaction request generation portion generates a transaction request to be sent to the financial entity processing portion in conjunction with a mobile payment request. The merchant request generation portion prepares a merchant request to be sent to a merchant in conjunction with a mobile payment request.

As described herein the MP processing portion might first send a transaction request to the financial entity processing portion and secure an approval for the requested transaction and thereafter forward the merchant request to the merchant with both information regarding the requested item AND information indicating the financial entity approval for the transaction i.e. see . Alternatively the MP processing portion might prepare a merchant request that is sent to the merchant that includes both customer payment account information as well as information regarding the requested item i.e. see . In this later example the MP processing portion would thus not communicate with the financial entity processing portion . Also in this later example the MP processing portion would not generate a transaction request but rather the merchant system would generate the transaction request for outputting to the financial entity based on the information in the merchant request received by the merchant system from MP processing portion .

As described above the MP processing portion includes the mobile payment database . The mobile payment database includes various data used and or generated in the mobile payment processing. In particular the mobile payment database includes the customer information database the financial entity information database and the merchant information database each of which are described below. In particular the customer information database includes various information about the customer including the customer profile information i.e. customer personal information and the various customer ordering information including customer preferences. For example customer information might include a physical description of the customer address phone numbers and other contact information that they should only be contacted between 8 am and 5 pm and by e mail for example. The financial entity information database includes various information regarding the financial entity from which the funds will be drawn to fund the mobile payment activity of the customer. Thus the financial entity FE information database might contain the information needed to contact a particular financial entity in conjunction with processing a mobile payment request.

The mobile payment database may also include various other data and or database as desired or needed to contain further data used by and or generated by the MP processing portion . For example the mobile payment database may contain various data relating to payment systems payment associations payment technology services coupon related processing receipt data VISA MASTERCARD AMERICAN EXPRESS DISCOVER particular point of sales and particular point of sale devices including attributes capabilities of a particular type of phone for example. Such data may be in the form of tables a relational database or some other arrangement such that the MP processing portion can retrieve and use such data as needed.

As described above it is appreciated that the mobile payment system may be used with a wide variety of merchants. For example the mobile payment system might be used with any merchant including any restaurant coffee shop related merchants and any other quick service related merchants for example. However various other merchants may support the mobile payment system as is desired.

It is appreciated that the mobile payment database may use a wide variety of database structures and arrangements such as relational database arrangements. Such database structures and arrangements may be used by the MP processing portion to associate various information and to selectively parse out and use information as needed for example. Relatedly in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the customer information database utilizes what is herein characterized as a customer record table and an order record table . Various further details of the tables are described below.

The database further includes the merchant information database . The merchant information database includes various information regarding the merchants that participate in the mobile payment program such as contact information menu information i.e. what items are available through the mobile payment program settlement information e.g. such as particulars relating to ACH and wire transfers merchant blackouts and promotion information for example.

As described above is a high level flowchart showing the mobile payment processing in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. As shown in the process starts in step with a customer inputting a key sequence into their cell phone. This input sequence constitutes a customer request for a requested item. Then after step in step the customer request is sent from the customer device to the MP processing portion . The MP processing portion might be disposed in the customer s cell phone. Thus step would be constituted by the input key sequence i.e. the data collected there from being transferred from the cell phone interface portion to the MP processing portion i.e. an internal transfer of data within the cell phone. Then the process passes to step .

In step the MP processing portion processes the customer request. Such processing includes various features as described below. In particular such processing includes the generation and output of a transaction request to the customer s financial entity i.e. for approval of the requested transaction. Further assuming approval of the requested transaction the MP processing portion then generates and outputs a merchant request which is sent to the particular merchant from which the requested item is to be purchased. Then the process passes to step . In step the designated merchant receives the merchant request and effects fulfillment of the customer request for the requested item. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the requested item is prepared and held for pickup at the counter of the particular merchant. In other embodiments various other arrangements may be made for delivery of the requested item to the customer i.e. such delivery inclusive of delivery to the customer s home to the customer s business and or delivery to the customer at the merchant s physical place of business the latter inclusive of the common in store purchase for example.

In accordance with an alternative embodiment of the invention vis vis step of and as described above the MP processing portion first transmits a merchant request to the merchant system i.e. before communication with the financial entity processing portion . Thereafter the merchant system interfaces with the financial entity processing portion to secure approval for the transaction i.e. akin to the processing shown in . Accordingly in this embodiment the interaction between the merchant system and the financial entity processing portion might be performed in the same manner as traditional transactions and as a result utilize known and established infrastructure between the merchant system and the financial entity processing portion so as to secure approval from the financial entity processing portion for a requested transaction. In such an embodiment the merchant would be provided with information it needs to satisfy the requested order inclusive of the information needed for the merchant to secure approval of the transaction from the financial entity processing portion .

After step of the process passes to step . Step reflects that the customer request is fulfilled. In conjunction with step a communication might be sent to the customer acknowledging such fulfillment of the customer request for the requested item.

As noted above in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the customer information database utilizes what is herein characterized as a customer record table and an order record table .

That is in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the customer record table of includes a plurality of customer records . Each customer record corresponds to a particular customer. The customer records as well as the records in the order record table may number in the thousands or more. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention each customer record in the customer record table includes a customer identification such as a number one or more customer device identification such as a number and one or more observed events listing. As used herein a number may include any characters including alphanumerics for example.

The customer record table also includes a listing of order records . In accordance with one embodiment of the invention a particular combination of customer number device number and or observed event results upon the MP processing portion inputting such data in a particular order record being retrieved for processing. In other words a particular combination of customer number device number and or observed event hereinafter characterized as dictating parameters is input by the MP processing portion and the MP processing portion uses such input information dictating parameters to map to a particular order record . Thereafter the particular order record is retrieved and processed so as to fulfill the customer request.

Illustratively assume that the MP processing portion is physically disposed in a financial entity facility. A customer generates a mobile payment customer request by calling into the mobile payment portion and entering in a key sequence. In such communication between the customer device and the MP processing portion the MP processing portion also inputs the primary customer identification C11111 the secondary identification i.e. the device number D111 as well as the observed event key sequence 1234 . Using the input information the MP processing portion maps such information into a particular order record i.e. the order record MP111.

Once the mapping is done the MP processing portion retrieves the particular order record . Thereafter the transaction request generation portion in the MP processing portion generates a transaction request based on the information in the order record. The generation of the transaction request includes the transaction request generation portion determining the requested item from the particular retrieved order record and pulling further information e.g. from stored data to determine the cost of such item.

As a further example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the MP processing portion receives a communication from a merchant participating in the mobile payment program that includes a customer ID C22222 . The MP processing portion identifies that the communication was indeed received from a merchant. Based on such data and the customer record table for the customer C22222 the MP processing portion maps to Record MP223. Thereafter the MP processing portion retrieves such record from the order record table . Based on such record the MP processing portion retrieves the appropriate account number to bill and forwards such back to the merchant system assuming that the customer approves the requested transaction i.e. by interfacing with their customer device to indicate such approval .

Assuming approval of the requested transaction the merchant request generation portion then generates a merchant request . The merchant request is prepared to convey the needed details of the customer request to the designated merchant i.e. the merchant that will satisfy the customer request and prepare the requested item for pick up by the customer.

Once the merchant request is generated the merchant request generation portion sends the merchant request to the particular merchant. For example the merchant request generation portion might pull contact information for the merchant from a database containing such information based on the merchant ID.

It is appreciated that and as described above reflect one methodology that may be used to input a customer request such as a key sequence or other event and map that event to information so as to fulfill the customer request. However other approaches may be used to associate data input from the customer with information so as to fulfill the customer request that such input data reflects. In particular other arrangements of relational databases might be utilized to map or otherwise associate information input from a customer with the information needed to satisfy a customer request.

Further it is appreciated that different data may be used and or needed to map to a particular order record in the order record table . For example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the MP processing portion is physically disposed in the customer s device e.g. in the customer s cell phone. In such embodiment the customer might enter an initial key sequence to reflect that the customer is initiating a mobile payment request. Thereafter the MP processing portion would be activated and looking for input of a key sequence from the customer. Once the MP processing portion receives such key sequence i.e. out of a plurality of possible key sequences the MP processing portion proceeds in processing the mobile payment request. That is the customer device need not transmit customer ID information or device Id information to the MP processing portion since the MP processing portion indeed only receives mobile payment requests from such device i.e. the MP processing portion is dedicated to and physically resides in the customer device . Accordingly the information needed to be sent between and stored within either the customer device and the MP processing portion may vary depending on the particular arrangement.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention using a suitable user interface the parameters or at least some of the parameters in the order record table may be changed by the customer an administrator a merchant some other person entity or changed in some automated manner for example. For example it is envisioned that promotion parameters might be changed in some global manner i.e. so as to globally change all order record tables affected by the change to a merchant s promotion for example. Alternatively promotion information as well as pricing information might be pulled from an associated table based on the merchant ID and the requested item for example. The customer also would be able to change their favorites and or the particular key sequence or other observed event that such favorite is associated with. Such change might be performed by varying mapping pointers or some other association in a relational database for example.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the parameters associated with a customer s profile such as preferences may be dynamically changed. Such profile information may be stored using the order record table for example.

For example the MP processing portion may observe trends of a customer and dynamically vary the customer s profile based on such trends. Accordingly the parameters associated with a customer s profile may be changed based on preferences of the customer and or prior behavior of the customer. In one scenario a customer may have designated their favorites for MCDONALDS. Based on attributes associated with the customer s chosen favorites the MP processing portion tracks those attributes into products at other restaurants. The attributes might be based on similarity between two compared products and in particular similar values or designations of parameters representative of the properties of such compared products. Thus for example a low calorie salad at MCDONALDS may be tracked to a low calorie salad at BURGER KING. Accordingly upon being prompted by the user going to BURGER KING the MP processing portion is provided with the capability to generate a list of the customer s favorites at BURGER KING. In this manner the MP processing portion essentially extrapolates preferences and or trends observed at one merchant over to another merchant and in particular the menu of another merchant. Such processing may include the use of corresponding dynamic icons to interface with the customer via their customer device . Such icons might be used to alert the customer that the favorites were generated based on their purchase at other merchants and in general guide the customer through a purchase experience using the extrapolated information.

In accordance with a further scenario it may be the case that the customer generally super sizes their order at MCDONALDS. Accordingly in favorites posed to the customer when the customer goes to BURGER KING the MP processing portion may propose larger sizing the customer s selection. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention and as alluded to above such analysis may be performed by assigning values to item attributes and then comparing those values to assess similarity such as between products from different stores. With reference to as reflected in the first customer record in the customer record table i.e. customer record for customer C11111 customer requests from different devices of the customer and or customer requests based on different observed events may be mapped into the same order record. That is illustratively for the customer record C1111 as shown in a customer request from any of key sequence 1234 in customer device 1 key sequence 1234 in customer device 2 and customer device 1 in location L10 will all track into order record MP111. Thus for any of such observed events the MP processing portion processes a customer request using such order record . In general the MP processing portion uses the dictating parameters as input from the customer to map to a particular order record .

As described above in accordance with one embodiment of the invention a user interfaces with the customer device using a key sequence entered into the customer device by the user. However it should be appreciated that the user may interface with their customer device in any of a wide variety of ways depending in particular on the capabilities of the device and or what software applications are utilized by the customer device to interface with the user. Accordingly for any of the functionalities described herein including those described in the context of using a key sequence the customer device might interface with the user using any of key sequence presentation of icons or other graphical representation touch screen voice recognition a device utilizing textile features LED light emitting diode enabled device push notification enabled device media message enabled device and or any other type of user interface that allows the user to communicate information to and from the customer device . For example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the customer device might present a first icon reflecting an option to purchase their favorite coffee at their favorite store a second icon reflecting an option to purchase their second favorite coffee at their favorite store and a third icon reflecting an option to purchase their favorite coffee at their second favorite store . The icons might be associated with the letters A B and C respectively such that the customer makes their selection by entering either A B or C into their key pad on the customer device . Accordingly A might designate selecting the coffee of the day at STARBUCKS and B indicate selecting a latte with blueberry muffin at DUNKIN DOUGHNUTS.

It is appreciated that in general the information as shown in may be presented through a variety of user interfaces as generated by the devices described herein.

In particular is a screen capture including an interface reflecting that the customer has successfully set up their account and showing favorites that the user has selected. More specifically the interface allows the customer to edit their favorite selections and to order if the customer desires.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the mobile payment system e.g. the MP processing portion may include data to present the user with template schedules. Such template schedules might include any of a wide variety of common regimes for customers such as 8 am coffee every weekday and 9 am coffee on Saturdays for example. The templates might be presented to the user so as to be variable i.e. the user could adjust the templates proposed 8 am time to 7 am for example. The template schedules might be selected out of a plurality of presented template schedules via the user s selection of a radio button for example. The template schedules might be customized in any of a variety of ways such as customized for open times of a particular store customized for a particular time for example. Further the mobile payment system may provide for a first customer s schedule to be linked to another customer s calendar i.e. the two customers schedules might synch with each other or in some other manner talk with each other. Such processing might utilize GOOGLE CALENDAR technology for example. Alternatively a user might manually enter in their schedule using an appropriate interface. In general it is appreciated that a customer s ordering regime may be integrated into their calendar the merchant s calendar or any other electronic calendar as desired.

Further is a screen capture showing a barista fulfillment queue interface in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. The interface is presented to the merchant in response to a mobile payment being placed by the customer. The interface presents various particulars of the placed order including the customer name the particular item purchased and the time that the mobile payment was received. It is appreciated that the particular content the of the interface may be varied as desired.

Further as described above the content shown in may alternatively be printed on a tab to be attached to the customer s requested item e.g. a sticky tab affixed to the customer s coffee drink as described above.

As shown in the data presented may also include particulars of the order of the merchant for that day i.e. confirmed orders meaning that customers were notified of their pending order and indicated they indeed wanted their scheduled order on that particular day completed meaning that the order was indeed delivered to the customer canceled meaning that the customer canceled their order expired meaning that the customer never picked up their order or never confirmed their order where confirmation was required and waiting indicating that the order is ready for pick up by the customer. However it is appreciated that any of a wide variety of metrics may be captured and presented to the merchant as is desired i.e. so as to assist the merchant in their workflow.

Hereinafter further details of the mobile payment processing are described with reference to the flowcharts of in accordance with embodiments of the invention.

Illustratively the process starts in step of in which mobile payment processing is initiated. After step the process passes to step . In step registration of the customer is performed. Further details of step are described below with reference to . Then as shown in the process passes to step . In step modifications of the customer mobile payment record are performed. For example modifications of the customer mobile payment record may be performed upon a customer request upon an administrators request or due to some other triggering event. Further details of the processing of step are described below with reference to . Then the process passes to step .

In step of mobile payment processing is performed based on a mobile payment request that was received from the customer. Various details of such mobile payment processing are described below with reference to . After step and after a merchant request is sent from the mobile payment portion to a merchant as described below the process passes to step . In step the merchant that received the request processes the merchant request that was sent from the mobile payment portion. Further details of such processing are described below with reference to . Then after step of the process passes to step .

In step the process returns to step of and waits for further requests i.e. further requests from the customer.

Then in step the system interfaces with the customer to secure such further needed information including any further personal information customer location information merchant information and financial account information as well as a wide variety of other information used in the processing of the mobile payment processing portion. Then the process passes to step in which the mobile payment processing portion based on the information secured from the financial entity s database and from the customer finalizes the customer mobile payment record for the customer.

After step of the process passes to step . In step the registration is complete and the process passes to step of i.e. the process returns to .

Step of reflects that modifications of the customer mobile payment record are complete and the process passes to step of .

After step the process passes to step of . In step the system based on the information received in the generated mobile payment request performs processing to map to and retrieve the appropriate corresponding order record for the particular customer. This mapping may be based on any suitable criteria as described herein and in particular for example based on the customer ID the device number that the customer is using and or particulars of the event observed. For example it might be that a particular key sequence is unique to a particular customer. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the system maps to the particular order record as described above based on all of the customer ID the device number as well as the particulars of the event observed.

After step of the process passes to step . In step the MP processing portion determines if the mobile payment request is based on a customer device initiated event. If yes then the process passes to step . In step the MP processing portion performs further mobile payment processing to satisfy the request. Further details of step are described below with reference to .

On the other hand if NO in step i.e. the mobile payment processing is not based on a customer device initiated event then the process passes to step .

In step the MP processing portion determines if the mobile payment request is based on a merchant initiated event. If yes then the process passes to step . In step the MP processing portion performs further mobile payment processing to satisfy the merchant initiated request. Further details of step are described below with reference to .

On the other hand if NO in step i.e. the mobile payment processing is not based on a merchant initiated event then the process passes to step .

Step of reflects the situation that a mobile payment request is not customer device initiated nor merchant system initiated. That is in accordance with some embodiments of the invention another entity such as financial entity or some other third party might initiate a requested mobile payment transaction. In such scenario such other party while initiating i.e. driving the transaction would ultimately communicate with either the customer device or the merchant system to effect the transaction. At such point in accordance with one embodiment of the invention such might then be deemed either a customer device initiated transaction or a merchant initiated transaction so as to trigger either step or step of .

After step of the process passes to step . Step reflects a trigger event constituted by a communication received from a merchant. That is step is the case that a communication is received from mobile eligible merchant with which the customer wishes to use the mobile payment system e.g. to pay for lunch .

After step of the process passes to step . In step the process passes to step of . Any other trigger event may be utilized as desired in addition to those set forth in .

Alternatively step reflects that further information is needed and the MP processing portion interfaces with the customer to secure such further information. For example the processing to secure the further information might be constituted by any of a presenting the customer with the customer s two or more favorites and input the customer s selection b presenting available menu options and input customer s selection c presenting a list of requested items received from merchant to the customer for approval and or d any other information as needed. Such scenario c may relate to the situation in which the customer is physically seated in the restaurant and is using the mobile payment system to pay for lunch for example.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the mobile payment processing as described herein might be used in a bar environment i.e. where a tab is initially opened and requested items are attributed to the tab in an ongoing manner. As reflected in it is appreciated that the customer experience with running a tab at the bar could utilize all of step and .

After step of in step the further information is attached to the customer s mobile payment request as addendum information e.g. for subsequent processing. After step the process passes to step and passes to as discussed above.

In step processing of the transaction request is performed to secure approval so as to debit the customer s account for the cost of the item that the customer has requested. Further details of step are described below with reference to . Then in step processing of the merchant request is performed. Further details of step are described below with reference to . The processing of the merchant request is performed subsequent to the approval of the transaction request in this example.

As shown in after the process starts in step the process passes to step . In step the system retrieves a particular order record for the customer. That is based on the observed event the particular device that the customer has used other information and or by default i.e. there is only one order record in the customer mobile payment record an order record is retrieved. Accordingly in step the system maps to the order record pulls the data from the particular order record or in some other way provides access to the data in the particular order record of the customer mobile payment record. After step of the process passes to step . In step the merchant information associated product information as well as any promotion information or targeted add information for example is retrieved using the merchant ID from the identified order record.

After step the process passes to step . In step based on the merchant information the associated product information as well as any promotion information and any additional information that was retrieved the cost of the particular desired item is determined. Then in step the financial account information is retrieved from the identified record row. Then in step based on the retrieved financial account information and the cost of the desired item a transaction request is generated.

Then in step processing is performed to secure approval of the transaction. That is for example the mobile payment processing portion communicates with an authorization entity to determine if the transaction is approved. After step of the process passes to step . In step the MP processing portion confirms approval of the transaction request. Otherwise if the transaction request is not approved for the customer the authorization entity and or the mobile payment processing portion may communicate such disposition of the customer s account to the customer. Such communication may provide alternative options to the customer such as entering a different payment account number. After step the process passes to step . In step the transaction request processing is terminated and the process passes to step of .

In step data to generate the merchant request is pulled from the retrieved order record of the retrieved customer mobile payment account. The retrieved data may include the merchant ID from which the purchase is desired any time parameters associated with the request the particular product that is desired delivery instructions as well as any other information. After step the process passes to step . In step the merchant request is generated based on the retrieved data from the order record and any addendum information i.e. any information the customer entered in manually for example. Then in step time parameters set forth in the order record are processed. That is these time parameters reflect the timing in which the merchant request is to be sent out. Then in step based on the retrieved time parameters the merchant request is placed into queue with an output time. For example the output time may be 0 minutes i.e. immediately or 15 minutes for example. It is appreciated that various other timing mechanisms may be utilized. For example if the time parameters are such that the merchant request should be immediately forwarded to the designated merchant then no placement into queue is desired. After step the process passes to step .

In step once the output time is attained for the merchant request that is in queue the merchant request is output i.e. transmitted to the merchant. Then in step a communication is sent from the mobile payment portion to the customer device. This communication may include various information and in particular advises the customer that their mobile payment request has been processed. Then in step the process passes to step of .

In step based on the order record that was retrieved in step the MP processing portion retrieves customer account information for debit of the transaction. Then in step based on the order record the MP processing portion determines if there are any applicable promotions and or coupons that might be applied to a requested item. If there is the MP processing portion attaches such information to the communication to be forwarded to the merchant . After step the process passes to step .

Regarding step promotions and or coupons may come from a variety of sources including the merchant financial entities that are involved in the transaction and or some other third party. Promotions and coupons may be made available based on a wide variety of criteria as desired.

In step the MP processing portion prepares a communication based on information retrieved in steps and . The MP processing portion then transmits such communication to the merchant system .

After step of the process passes to step . In step the mobile payment request i.e. the merchant request is input into the merchant system. Then in step the merchant system performs processing to determine if the requested item is available. Based on that determination an output may be generated in the form of a communication to the customer device . described below shows further detail of such communication.

As reflected in step if the particular request being processed is a merchant initiated i.e. merchant driven request then the availability of the requested item may have been previously determined and thus the processing of would not be invoked.

After step of the process passes to step . In step the merchant system confirms that the transaction is previously authorized based on information in communication from the MP processing portion OR the merchant system proceeds with securing transaction authorization from the financial entity processing portion based on information in the communication from the MP processing portion .

In step the parameters of the customer s purchase are presented to the merchant worker. Then in step the merchant worker prepares the requested purchase and coordinates the pickup of the purchase by the customer based on the instructions that the worker sees in the merchant request. After step the process passes to step . In step the merchant worker interfaces with the merchant system to input that the requested purchase is satisfied. Accordingly step reflects that the requested purchase is satisfied i.e. once the requested item is ready for pickup and or once the customer picks up the requested item.

Then the process of passes to step . In step the merchant system sends a communication to the mobile customer device indicating the status of requested item i.e. that the requested item is ready for pickup or to confirm that the customer has picked up the requested item and that the transaction is completed for example.

As noted above in accordance with embodiments of the invention information may be captured sorted and or allocated in a variety of manners. In particular transaction receipt information may be captured sorted and or allocated. For example in conjunction with dining at a mobile eligible restaurant as described above the MP processing portion might associate the particular transaction with an expense number which is in turn associated with a particular expense account. In some periodic manner the customer may download all the transactions associated with each of his expense numbers or use such aggregated information in some other manner as desired. In general there may be provided allocation i.e. bucket allocation of various information by either the customer MP processing portion a participating merchant and or a financial entity.

Such allocation may be performed utilizing the order record table as shown in . That is as described above in accordance with one embodiment of the invention each mobile payment transaction is mapped into a particular order record i.e. based on the particular customer the customer device used and or the trigger event for example. Accordingly the particular order record may be provided to contain data that indicates how to allocate the particular requested transaction.

As described above the systems and methods of embodiments of the invention provide for a variety of functionality. Such functionally may relate to customer ordering and related processing customer payment related processing use of rules in payment scenarios GPS and other location related processing.

Further the invention may include for example the use of coupons including URL and decay processing associated with the location securement and life of coupons respectively the sharing of information e.g. tell your friends you re at the local coffee house use of photo imaging technology various authentication processing including two key authentication and biometric authentication such as fingerprinting and eye scan offer matching and integration of multiple customer devices. The order record associated with a particular requested transaction of a customer may be utilized to provide such features.

For example a coupon may be associated with a particular customer using the mapping capability of the order record table . A particular coupon may be presented to the customer for use by that customer. Alternatively the customer might transfer the coupon to another customer for their use i.e. via the two customer devices talking with each other for example. Further a customer may be a member of what might be characterized as a coupon consortium. As a member the customer might be presented with coupons based on criteria e.g. using a rule set as desired. Members of the consortium may contribute coupons and or coupon value to the pool. The customers may use coupons as they are available and or as they are earned by the particular customer for example.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the invention the mobile payment system implements a coupon system in conjunction with a particular merchant in which if a given number of people are participating in an event e.g. at a bar then a price reduction will be granted. For example a price reduction of 10 might be provided if 10 or more people participate in a transaction using the mobile payment system . In general the mobile payment system may utilize a wide variety of coupon related functionality such as any of the features described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 559 756 filed Sep. 15 2009 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR COUPON SEARCHING CARDS which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

For example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention the order record that the MP processing portion maps to for a particular transaction may include indicia indicating that certain entities should be alerted to such requested transaction. Illustratively the e mail addresses of two friends of the customer may be associated with a retrieved order record such that when that order record is retrieved the two friends are e mailed. Various other information may be associated with respective order records and used to enhance the customer experience.

In general the mobile payment system and in particular the MP processing portion may be integrated with other systems including what might be characterized as social network sites SNSs such as TWITTER LINKEDIN and FACEBOOK for example. More specifically processing performed by the mobile payment system including the events associated with such processing may be communicated to such SNSs as desired. For example in accordance with one embodiment of the invention upon the MP processing portion observing a certain event the MP processing portion will communicate attributes of the observed event to an SNS in some predetermined manner. Such may be performed using the customer record table and mapping an observed event to communications that are to be performed in conjunction with such observed event. Such processing may utilize the customer record table trigger events and or a rule set for example. In one illustrative scenario as a customer approaches her local STARBUCKS an order of a venti vanilla latte is generated and sent to such merchant as described herein. In conjunction with sending such order an e mail goes out to the customer s designated friends. At such time the friends might join the customer if the friends are available. Various related processing may be provided.

In summary the protocol may be characterized as go somewhere do something come back. The various systems and processing and associated communications as described herein may be provided with and or utilize such protocol so as to provide a richer and more automated platform.

After the protocol is initiated in step of the processing passes to step . As shown in step a first application i.e. application A invokes a URL for a second application i.e. Application B including a returnURL parameter that acts as a continuation . To explain further in accordance with one embodiment of the invention when a customer using the protocol taps Coffee Thru Mobile payment in a SmartPhone or other mobile customer device application A crafts a URL for the Mobile payment processing . The customer can specify various parameters and application A will reflect such on the URL query string i.e. and fill in the appropriate values on the query string to reflect such selected parameters.

Application A as described may be constituted by the mobile payment MP processing portion with application B constituted by the merchant system . For example the communication portion and or merchant request generation portion in the MP processing portion may effect the protocol related processing as described herein.

The calling application application A also includes a returnURL parameter so that application B knows how to come back when the processing is done. The returnURL contains all the information the calling application application A needs to continue the progression of processing between application A and application B. In one case the URL sent by application A may include a simple beverage id parameter i.e. so as to associate the communications to a comment id. However the URL sent from the application A to application B may also include complex continuation information encoded in the URL i.e. so as to dictate further action effected upon receipt of the URL by application B i.e. such as delivery instructions. A URL from application A to application B might be constituted by for example the URL 

As shown in step reflects that when Application B is done performing the dictated processing as dictated by the URL from application A Application B invokes the returnURL that was provided from Application A and attaches any additional information e.g. such as information generated from the processing performed by application B and information regarding whether the order was completed. In other words application B prepares the return URL and associated information for retrieval by the customer s application A.

Accordingly when the customer taps Return to CoffeePlace as presented by application A on the customer s device application A invokes the returnURL of the request which includes the additional return parameters that indicate whether the order was completed as well as any other information generated by application B. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the return parameters are prefixed with an appropriate prefix i.e. to avoid collisions.

Accordingly in step of Application A retrieves the returnURL restoring the continuation of the processing. When the CoffeePlace web page re launches with the requested URL the CoffeePlace web page loads the correct record using the beverage id parameter and further may store information about the transaction in the Notes field for that record.

The above protocol provides one approach that may be used in the communications between the MP processing portion and the merchant system . In general the above protocol may be used in conjunction with any of the communications or processing described herein as desired.

In accordance with the various embodiments described herein it is appreciated that payment accounts may be debited in combination. That is multiple payment accounts may be debited for a particular transaction. For example a gift card account might be debited with the balance due being debited from a credit card account.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention and related to the bar environment processing as described above the MP processing portion may perform a variety of aggregation and allocation i.e. divvying out processing in conjunction with the various other features described herein. That is in embodiments of the invention functionality is provided to allocate and or aggregate any of customer orders payment of items and delivery of items including over the counter delivery for example. is a diagram showing features of such aggregation and allocation in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

As shown in each of customers 2 3 and 4 transmit a desired order to the customer device of customer 1 i.e. the customer 1 device . This aggregation of orders by the customer 1 device may be performed by the devices talking with each other in any suitable manner. For example after customer 2 prepares their order on their device customer 2 might flick their device toward the customer 1 device so as to transmit their order to the customer 1 device and in particular a MP processing portion disposed in the customer device .

Thereafter the MP processing portion via the customer 1 device transmits the aggregated order to the merchant system i.e. upon customer 1 walking down the street and entering the local coffee house for example. As to the transmission between the customer 1 device and the merchant system such may be effected in different manners. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the MP processing portion in the customer 1 device actually allocates out the respective orders prior to sending to the merchant system . However in accordance with a different embodiment of the invention the MP processing portion in the customer 1 device transmits all the orders to the merchant system together. The later scenario may be desired if the customer 1 for example is paying for everyone s ordered item.

Once the order is received by the merchant system the merchant system debits the designated account based on the processing as described above for example. Further the merchant system outputs the orders to the merchant s workers for preparation of the requested items. In conjunction the merchant system might generate print tabs to be affixed to the ordered items.

The processing shown in illustrates that an aggregated order may be output from a customer device to the merchant. However in other embodiments of the invention an aggregated order may be output to an MP processing portion and or a bank processing portion after which the MP processing portion and or the bank processing portion outputs the aggregated order information to the merchant. Thus the customer device might first interface with the MP processing portion and or the bank processing portion after which the MP processing portion and or the customer device interfaces with the merchant system.

In accordance with embodiments of the invention it is appreciated that orders may be aggregated in a wide variety of ways. As described herein orders may be aggregated to pay funds and or to receive funds in some allocated manner. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention funds may be aggregated for purposes of administering a charitable contribution. The MP processing portion may utilize the various features described herein to assist in such administering of a charitable contribution

In accordance with further embodiments of the invention various variations of the above processing may be performed. For example the MP processing portion may provide for the customer 1 device to provide an order for two or more people debit the customer 1 designated account and print out tabs to be affixed to the ordered items that designate the recipient. Accordingly a customer 1 may arrange using the MP processing portion for payment of a colleague s coffee in conjunction with the colleague picking up the paid for coffee from the barista i.e. since the tab that is attached to the colleague s coffee has the colleague s name and caricature in one illustrative example.

As described above order information may be transferred from a first customer s device to a second customer s device. In accordance with one embodiment of the invention such data may have a decay function attached thereto i.e. the data will be erased by the MP processing portion on the customer 1 device in a certain period of time e.g. an hour. Relatedly it is appreciated that such transferred data may well set forth the particulars of the order i.e. such that it is the customer 1 device s job to simply transfer the order to the merchant system in the particular aggregated or allocated manner designated.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the invention the MP processing portion may be provided with functionality to allocate out aggregated costs in various manners. For example in a group setting such as the bar scenario described above such functionality might allow the customer to which the purchases are being aggregated to allocate costs based on items purchased by participates based on the number of participates i.e. split the tab evenly based on who is still present and or based on seniority of persons present for example.

In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the systems and methods of embodiments may also provide a ghost customer. For example a person dining in a group setting may not be provided with the technology to participate as described herein. In such scenario the MP processing portion may provide for a ghost customer. An allocation of amount owed or amount due may be allocated to this customer by the processing portion and then verbally communicated to the customer for example.

It is appreciated that the processing as described herein may include or be used with processing to effect a transfer of funds between two or more persons. For example a first customer may purchase an item for a second customer. Thereafter the second customer may transfer funds from the second customer s account to the first customer s account. Any known processing may be used to effect such person to person processing. For example the features described herein may be used in conjunction with the features described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 833 709 US 2008 0177659 filed Aug. 3 2007 entitled Systems and methods for providing financial processing in conjunction with instant messaging and other communications which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

It is appreciated that the features described herein may be used in conjunction with a wide variety of other technologies including but not limited to technology as set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 7 392 222 issued Jun. 24 2008 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING PROMOTIONAL PRICING U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 10 909 407 filed Aug. 3 2004 U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 561 876 filed Sep. 17 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BORROWING SCHEMES U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 372 510 filed Feb. 17 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BORROWING SCHEMES U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 372 554 filed Feb. 17 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BORROWING SCHEMES U.S. Utility Application No. 12 372 617 filed Feb. 17 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BORROWING SCHEMES U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 372 710 filed Feb. 17 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BORROWING SCHEMES U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 372 716 filed Feb. 17 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING BORROWING SCHEMES as well as that described in U.S. Utility application Ser. No. 12 559 756 filed Sep. 15 2009 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR COUPON SEARCHING CARDS and U.S. Pat. No. 7 702 538 issuing Apr. 20 2010 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR TRANSPONDER ENABLED ACCOUNT TRANSACTIONS all of such which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

In particular are figures showing a user scenario in which a mobile payment device is configured and used to perform mobile pay mPay processing in accordance with embodiments of the invention. Such mPay processing might further be characterized as iPay processing in that such is typically initiated by the customer as described herein. In particular shows steps of the user scenario showing aspects of configuration and use of a mobile payment device in accordance with one embodiment of the invention

In particular shows steps of the user scenario showing aspects of configuration and use of a mobile payment device in accordance with one embodiment of the invention

In particular shows steps of a pre transaction phase of a user scenario showing aspects of location based ordering and payment in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In particular shows steps of a pre transaction phase of a user scenario showing aspects of web based ordering and payment in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In particular shows steps of a pre transaction phase of a user scenario showing aspects of restaurant ordering and payment in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In particular shows steps of a pre transaction phase of a user scenario showing aspects of setting rules and fraud alerts in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In particular shows steps of a pre transaction phase of a user scenario showing aspects of open bar tab ordering and payment in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In particular shows steps of a pre transaction phase of a user scenario showing aspects of bill sharing in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In particular shows steps of a pre transaction phase of a user scenario showing aspects of performing person to person payment in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

In particular shows steps of a user scenario showing aspects of performing payment at a point of purchase in accordance with one embodiment of the invention.

Hereinafter general aspects of implementation of the systems and methods of the invention will be described.

As described herein embodiments of the system of the invention and various processes of embodiments of the method of the invention are described. The system of the invention or portions of the system of the invention may be in the form of a processing machine such as a general purpose computer for example. As used herein the term processing machine is to be understood to include at least one processor that uses at least one memory. The at least one memory stores a set of instructions. The instructions may be either permanently or temporarily stored in the memory or memories of the processing machine. The processor executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories in order to process data. The set of instructions may include various instructions that perform a particular task or tasks including any of the tasks described herein. Such a set of instructions for performing a particular task may be characterized as a program software program or simply software.

As noted herein the processing machine executes the instructions that are stored in the memory or memories to process data. This processing of data may be in response to commands by a user or users of the processing machine in response to previous processing in response to a request by another processing machine and or any other input for example.

As noted herein the processing machine used to implement the invention may be a general purpose computer. However the processing machine described herein may also utilize any of a wide variety of other technologies including a special purpose computer a computer system including a microcomputer mini computer or mainframe for example a programmed microprocessor a micro controller a peripheral integrated circuit element a CSIC Customer Specific Integrated Circuit or ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or other integrated circuit a logic circuit a digital signal processor a programmable logic device such as a FPGA PLD PLA or PAL or any other device or arrangement of devices that is capable of implementing the steps of the processes of the invention.

The processing machine used to implement the invention may utilize a suitable operating system. Thus embodiments of the invention may include a processing machine running the Microsoft Windows Vista operating system the Microsoft Windows XP operating system the Microsoft Windows NT operating system the Windows 2000 operating system the Unix operating system the Linux operating system the Xenix operating system the IBM AIX operating system the Hewlett Packard UX operating system the Novell Netware operating system the Sun Microsystems Solaris operating system the OS 2 operating system the BeOS operating system the Macintosh operating system the Apache operating system an OpenStep operating system or another operating system or platform.

It is appreciated that in order to practice the method of the invention as described herein it is not necessary that the processors and or the memories of the processing machine be physically located in the same geographical place. That is each of the processors and the memories used by the processing machine may be located in geographically distinct locations and connected so as to communicate in any suitable manner. Additionally it is appreciated that each of the processor and or the memory may be composed of different physical pieces of equipment. Accordingly it is not necessary that the processor be one single piece of equipment in one location and that the memory be another single piece of equipment in another location. That is it is contemplated that the processor may be two pieces of equipment in two different physical locations. The two distinct pieces of equipment may be connected in any suitable manner. Additionally the memory may include two or more portions of memory in two or more physical locations.

To explain further processing as described herein is performed by various components and various memories. However it is appreciated that the processing performed by two or more distinct components as described herein may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single component. Further the processing performed by one distinct component as described herein may be performed by two or more distinct components. In a similar manner the memory storage performed by two or more distinct memory portions as described herein may in accordance with a further embodiment of the invention be performed by a single memory portion. Further the memory storage performed by one distinct memory portion as described herein may be performed by two or more memory portions.

Further various technologies may be used to provide communication between the various processors and or memories as well as to allow the processors and or the memories of the invention to communicate with any other entity i.e. so as to obtain further instructions or to access and use remote memory stores for example. Such technologies used to provide such communication might include a network the Internet Intranet Extranet LAN an Ethernet or any client server system that provides communication for example. Such communications technologies may use any suitable protocol such as TCP IP UDP or OSI for example. As used herein the term talking in reference to devices means that the devices are communicating with each other.

As described herein a set of instructions is used in the processing of the invention. The set of instructions may be in the form of a program or software. The software may be in the form of system software or application software for example. The software might also be in the form of a collection of separate programs a program module within a larger program or a portion of a program module for example The software used might also include modular programming in the form of object oriented programming. The software tells the processing machine what to do with the data being processed.

Further it is appreciated that the instructions or set of instructions used in the implementation and operation of the invention may be in a suitable form such that the processing machine may read the instructions. For example the instructions that form a program may be in the form of a suitable programming language which is converted to machine language or object code to allow the processor or processors to read the instructions. That is written lines of programming code or source code in a particular programming language are converted to machine language using a compiler assembler or interpreter. The machine language is binary coded machine instructions that are specific to a particular type of processing machine i.e. to a particular type of computer for example. The computer understands the machine language.

Any suitable programming language may be used in accordance with the various embodiments of the invention. Illustratively the programming language used may include assembly language Ada APL Basic C C COBOL dBase Forth Fortran Java Modula 2 Pascal Prolog REXX Visual Basic and or JavaScript for example. Further it is not necessary that a single type of instructions or single programming language be utilized in conjunction with the operation of the system and method of the invention. Rather any number of different programming languages may be utilized as is necessary or desirable.

Also the instructions and or data used in the practice of the invention may utilize any compression or encryption technique or algorithm as may be desired. An encryption module might be used to encrypt data. Further files or other data may be decrypted using a suitable decryption module for example.

As described herein the invention may illustratively be embodied in the form of a processing machine including a computer or computer system for example that includes at least one memory. It is to be appreciated that the set of instructions i.e. the software for example that enables the computer operating system to perform the operations described herein may be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium as desired. Further the data that is processed by the set of instructions might also be contained on any of a wide variety of media or medium. That is the particular medium i.e. the memory in the processing machine utilized to hold the set of instructions and or the data used in the invention may take on any of a variety of physical forms or transmissions for example. Illustratively the medium may be in the form of paper paper transparencies a compact disk a DVD an integrated circuit a hard disk a floppy disk an optical disk a magnetic tape a RAM a ROM a PROM a EPROM a wire a cable a fiber communications channel a satellite transmissions or other remote transmission as well as any other medium or source of data that may be read by the processors of the invention.

Further the memory or memories used in the processing machine that implements the invention may be in any of a wide variety of forms to allow the memory to hold instructions data or other information as is desired. Thus the memory might be in the form of a database to hold data. The database might use any desired arrangement of files such as a flat file arrangement or a relational database arrangement for example.

In the system and method of the invention a variety of user interfaces may be utilized to allow a user to interface with the processing machine or machines that are used to implement the invention. As used herein a user interface includes any hardware software or combination of hardware and software used by the processing machine that allows a user to interact with the processing machine. A user interface may be in the form of a dialogue screen for example. A user interface may also include any of a mouse touch screen keyboard voice reader voice recognizer dialogue screen menu box list checkbox toggle switch a pushbutton or any other device that allows a user to receive information regarding the operation of the processing machine as it processes a set of instructions and or provide the processing machine with information. Accordingly the user interface is any device that provides communication between a user and a processing machine. The information provided by the user to the processing machine through the user interface may be in the form of a command a selection of data or some other input for example.

As discussed herein a user interface is utilized by the processing machine that performs a set of instructions such that the processing machine processes data for a user. The user interface is typically used by the processing machine for interacting with a user either to convey information or receive information from the user. However it should be appreciated that in accordance with some embodiments of the system and method of the invention it is not necessary that a human user actually interact with a user interface used by the processing machine of the invention. Rather it is also contemplated that the user interface of the invention might interact i.e. convey and receive information with another processing machine rather than a human user. Accordingly the other processing machine might be characterized as a user. Further it is contemplated that a user interface utilized in the system and method of the invention may interact partially with another processing machine or processing machines while also interacting partially with a human user.

It will be readily understood by those persons skilled in the art that the present invention is susceptible to broad utility and application. Many embodiments and adaptations of the present invention other than those herein described as well as many variations modifications and equivalent arrangements will be apparent from or reasonably suggested by the present invention and foregoing description thereof without departing from the substance or scope of the invention.

Accordingly while the present invention has been described here in detail in relation to its exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that this disclosure is only illustrative and exemplary of the present invention and is made to provide an enabling disclosure of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing disclosure is not intended to be construed or to limit the present invention or otherwise to exclude any other such embodiments adaptations variations modifications or equivalent arrangements.

