---

title: Method and system for generating web pages for topics unassociated with a dominant URL
abstract: Techniques are provided for identifying topics that are unassociated with a dominant URL. A set of keywords associated with a topic is identified. A search log is scanned to identify search queries associated with the set of keywords. The identified search queries are grouped into clusters. Clusters associated with similar URLs are merged to generate an extended seed query string. The extended seed query string is analyzed to determine whether it relates to an existing dominant URL. If the extended seed query string is determined to be unassociated with an existing dominant URL, a web page associated with the topic may be generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799260&OS=08799260&RS=08799260
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08799260
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101217
---
A search engine is an information retrieval system used to locate documents and other information stored on a computer system. Search engines are useful for reducing the amount of time required to find information. One well known type of search engine is a Web search engine which searches for documents such as web pages on the World Wide Web also known as the Web . Examples of such search engines include Yahoo Search at yahoo.com Microsoft Bing at bing.com Ask.com at ask.com and Google at google.com . Online services such as LexisNexis and Westlaw also enable users to search for documents provided by their respective services including articles and court opinions. Other types of search engines include personal search engines mobile search engines and enterprise search engines that search on intranets among others.

To perform a search a user of a search engine typically enters a query into a search box of the search engine. The query contains one or more words terms such as hazardous waste or country music. The terms of the query are typically selected by the user as an attempt to find particular information of interest to the user. The search engine returns a list of documents relevant to the query. For a Web based search the search engine typically also returns a list of uniform resource locator URL addresses for the relevant documents which is displayed to the user in a search results page. If the scope of the search resulting from a query is large the returned results may include thousands or even millions of documents.

 Sponsored search refers to a form of Internet advertising marketing that enables advertisers to increase their visibility in the results page of a search engine query. According to sponsored search an advertiser may pay or provide other compensation for having an advertisement appear in a sponsored section of the results page for one or more particular queries. A user who enters one of the queries into the search engine is provided with a results page that includes the advertisement in the sponsored search section. The sponsored search section is prominently displayed in the results page to enable the user to easily see and interact with the advertisement. In this manner an advertiser is enabled to provide advertisements to users that are directly related to their queries and a search engine owner operator is enabled to further monetize the search engine.

Sponsored search advertisers are enabled to match their advertisements with desired search results by bidding on keywords. An auction may be performed among multiple advertisers who bid in order to have their advertisements shown next to search results for specific keywords. An advertisement associated with submitted keywords that match the search query and having a winning bid may be displayed on search results pages for the search query. Output bidding is another bidding mechanism for sponsored search where advertisers bid on search result URLs uniform resource locator rather than on keywords in input search queries. For example an advertiser may want an advertisement to appear whenever search results include a site having the URL imdb.com instead of bidding on keywords that lead to this site such as movie titles actor names etc .

The search engine entry box has become the starting point for many tasks related to the Web. It enables searching to be performed but also enables users to navigate to websites. Often a search or a group of related searches will cause a search system to retrieve results pointing to the same URL that is dominant within the content domain associated with the search query. For example searches associated with movie related topics often lead to the Internet Movie Database at imdb.com as a search result. Searches associated with weather related topics often lead to The Weather Channel at weather.com as a search result. Other groups of related searches may lead to other associates URLs that dominate the search space.

As such for some topics URLs exist that span an entire or large domain of keywords related to the topics appearing among the top search results in response to queries for those topics. Utilizing output bidding advertisers may bid on the URL and gain excellent advertisement coverage a large number of related keywords. However there are many topics without a dominant URL that comprehensively covers the topics.

Various approaches are described herein for among other things identifying topics or clusters of closely related keywords that lack a topic or dominant URL. Furthermore various approaches are described herein for generating or creating content such as titles or body text of web pages for the identified topics or clusters.

The described approaches may generate recommendations of topics that lack or are unassociated with a dominant URL and may provide a set of relevant keywords and or recommendations for titles or snippets that may be used to create a web page for the recommended topics. The described approaches may determine a set of one or more scores. For instance a first score that denotes a coverage of a topic by a single URL e.g. a high score indicates the existence of a dominant URL may be determined A second score that indicates a level of advertiser interest in the topic e.g. a score that indicates a number of advertisers bidding on the keywords for the topic may be determined. Furthermore a third score that indicates a level of user interest e.g. a score that indicates the volume of search queries associated with the topic may be determined. Such approaches may be useful to publishers who may attract interested users and thus attract advertisers who wish to advertise to those users. For example publishers using the approaches described herein may generate a content page around topics unassociated with dominant URLs attracting users and advertisers. Any user may use the approaches described herein to determine dominant URLs and to generate content pages for the determined dominant URLs.

In one method implementation a query topic unassociated with a dominant URL is determined A seed query string associated with a query topic is identified and a log of search queries is scanned to identify search queries associated with the seed query string. Identified search queries are grouped into clusters. Each of the clusters is associated with at least one URL returned by a search engine when performing a search for information using one or more of the identified search queries. Clusters associated with similar URLs are merged to generate an extended seed query string. If the extended seed query string is determined to be unassociated with a dominant URL information identifying a query topic associated with the extended seed query string is generated.

In another method implementation a web page associated with a topic is created. Information associated with a query topic determined to be unassociated with a dominant URL is received content for a web page related to the query topic is generated and a web page that includes the generated content is created.

In another implementation a system for outputting content to be displayed by a web page is provided. The system includes a topic identification module that is configured to identify one or more topics unassociated with a dominant URL. The system also includes a content generation module that is configured to generate content for a web page associated with the identified one or more topics unassociated with the dominant URL.

Computer program products are also described herein. The computer program products include a computer readable medium having computer program logic recorded thereon for determining dominant URLs generating content pages for determined dominant URLs and for enabling further embodiments according to the implementations described herein.

Further features and advantages of the disclosed technologies as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the invention is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein.

The features and advantages of the disclosed technologies will become more apparent from the detailed description set forth below when taken in conjunction with the drawings in which like reference characters identify corresponding elements throughout. In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements. The drawing in which an element first appears is indicated by the leftmost digit s in the corresponding reference number.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that illustrate exemplary embodiments of the present invention. However the scope of the present invention is not limited to these embodiments but is instead defined by the appended claims. Thus embodiments beyond those shown in the accompanying drawings such as modified versions of the illustrated embodiments may nevertheless be encompassed by the present invention.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment or the like indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to implement such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Embodiments of the present invention identify new trends and enable web sites and other content to be created that satisfy existing and future user and advertiser interests. User satisfaction may be increased by embodiments that guide the creation of content that satisfies the needs of users. In an output bidding context embodiments of the present invention assist advertisers in obtaining keyword coverage for bid domains that are not already covered by a single URL which can result in higher advertising investment returns based on the coverage and accuracy of bid terms.

Embodiments may be implemented in a variety of environments including sponsored search environments. For instance shows a search network which is an example environment in which sponsored search may be implemented. As shown in network includes a search system . Search system is configured to provide search results for a received search query and to provide matching advertisements. As shown in search system includes a search engine and an advertisement selector . These and further elements of network are described as follows to illustrate an example search network in which embodiments may be implemented. It is noted that embodiments may also be implemented in other environments.

As shown in one or more computers such as first third computers are connected to a communication network . Network may be any type of communication network such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or a combination of communication networks. In embodiments network may include the Internet and or an intranet. Computers can retrieve documents from entities over network . Computers may each be any type of suitable electronic device typically having a display and having web browsing capability such as a desktop computer e.g. a personal computer etc. a mobile computing device e.g. a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer e.g. an Apple iPad a netbook etc. a mobile phone e.g. a cell phone a smart phone etc. or a mobile email device. In embodiments where network includes the Internet numerous documents including a document that form a portion of World Wide Web are available for retrieval by computers through network . On the Internet documents may be identified located by a uniform resource locator URL such as documents.com documentX and or by other mechanisms. Computers can access document through network by supplying a URL corresponding to document to a document server not shown in .

As shown in search engine is coupled to network . Search engine accesses a stored index that indexes documents such as documents of World Wide Web . A user of computer who desires to retrieve one or more documents relevant to a particular topic but does not know the identifier location of such a document may submit a query to search engine through network . For instance the user may enter query into a search engine entry box displayed by computer e.g. by a web browser . Search engine receives query and analyzes index to find documents relevant to query . For example search engine may determine a set of documents indexed by index that include terms of query . The set of documents may include any number of documents including tens hundreds thousands or even millions of documents. Search engine may use a ranking or relevance function to rank documents of the retrieved set of documents in an order of relevance to the user. Documents of the set determined to most likely be relevant may be provided at the top of a list of the returned documents in an attempt to avoid the user having to parse through the entire set of documents.

Search engine may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example search engine may include software firmware that executes in one or more processors of one or more computer systems such as one or more servers. Examples of search engine that may be accessible through network include but are not limited to Yahoo Search at yahoo.com Microsoft Bing at bing.com Ask.com at ask.com and Google at google.com .

Furthermore in a sponsored search environment one or more advertisements may be selected for display to the user along with the documents displayed to the user in response to query . Sponsored search refers to a form of Internet advertising marketing that enables advertisers to increase their visibility in the results page of a search engine query. In sponsored search an advertiser may pay or provide other consideration for having information such as a link to a website of the advertiser appear in a sponsored section of the results webpage for one or more particular queries. The sponsored section is prominently displayed in the results page to enable the user to easily view and interact with the displayed information of the advertiser. In this manner an advertiser is enabled to provide advertisements to users that are directly related to their queries and a search engine owner operator is enabled to further monetize the search engine.

For example network may include advertisement selector that is configured to select advertisements related to received queries for display. Advertisement selector may receive query from search engine . Advertisement selector may perform a mapping of queries to advertisers advertisements. Advertisement selector may determine from the mapping whether advertisements are present that correspond to query and if so to select one or more of the corresponding advertisements to be displayed as sponsored search results for query . Advertisement selector may provide an indication of the selected advertisements to search engine . Search engine may generate a search results page that is transmitted to first computer to be displayed e.g. by a browser and that includes any determined search results and selected advertisements for query .

Often a search or a group of related searches will cause a search system to retrieve results pointing to a same URL that is dominant within a search space of the related searches e.g. imdb.com in a movies search space weather.com in a weather search space etc. . As such for some topics a URL exists that spans an entire or large domain of keywords related to the topics appearing among the top search results in response to queries for those topics. Utilizing output bidding advertisers may bid on the URL and gain excellent advertisement coverage a large number of related keywords. However there are many topics without a dominant URL that comprehensively covers the topics.

Embodiments of the present invention provide approaches that identify topics that are not associated with a dominant URL. As such content providers and users are enabled by embodiment to generate web sites for the identified topics and advertisers are enabled to obtain bid coverage for the identified topics.

For instance shows a block diagram of a search system according to an example embodiment. Similarly to search system of search system may include a search engine e.g. search engine and an advertisement selector e.g. advertisement selector . Furthermore as shown in search system includes a topic identification module and a content generation module . Topic identification module receives initial seed keywords from a user or internally generates seed keywords as described below . Initial seed keywords includes a plurality of keywords which may be related or unrelated and define a topic. Initial seed keywords may be analyzed to determine whether or not a dominant URL exists that is associated with the defined topic. Topic identification module is configured to process initial seed keywords to output topic information for the topic related to initial seed keywords . For instance topic identification module may calculate and output one or more scores for the topic related to initial seed keywords that are included in topic information . The scores may be user interest scores advertiser interest scores URL dominance scores or various combinations of scores. Topic information may indicate whether or not a dominant URL is associated with the topic and if not whether a web page may be desirable to generate for the topic.

Topic information may be received by content generation module . Content generation module is configured to generate a web page associated with the topic defined by the seed keywords. In an embodiment the topic may be determined to not be associated with a dominant URL e.g. as indicated by topic information . Content generation module may generate titles and or text snippets based on topic information that may be included in the web page.

Example embodiments for search system are described as follows. For instance example embodiments for topic identification module and for further techniques for identifying query topics unassociated with a dominant URL are described in further detail in the following section. A subsequent section describes example embodiments for content generation module and for further techniques for generating content associated with identified query topics. It noted that the section subsection headings provided herein are not intended to be limiting. Embodiments are described throughout this document and any type of embodiment may be included in any section subsection.

Topic identification module may be configured in various ways in embodiments. For instance shows a block diagram of a topic identification module according to an example embodiment. Topic identification module is an example of topic identification module of . As shown in topic identification module includes a keyword determiner a query identifier a query grouper a cluster merger and a URL dominance determiner . These elements of topic identification module are described as follows.

In embodiments keyword determiner is configured to receive keywords that are analyzed by module for the existence of a dominant URL. In an embodiment keyword determiner may include a network interface such as an API application programming interface that is configured to receive keywords over a network e.g. a LAN WAN combination of networks etc. . In embodiments keyword determiner may receive keywords from a user or may generate keywords. For instance as shown in keyword determiner may receive initial seed keywords . Alternatively as shown in keyword determiner may receive a bid query log and may generate keywords based on bid query log . In either case as shown in keyword determiner outputs a set of keywords e.g. a keyword string that includes the received or generated seed keywords.

For example keyword determiner may receive initial seed keywords from a user. In one embodiment keyword determiner receives initial seed keywords from an advertiser that wishes to determine whether keywords included in initial seed keywords are associated with a dominant URL. Alternatively initial seed keywords may be received from another type of user. In an embodiment where initial seed keywords are received from a user keyword determiner may output initial seed keywords as set of keywords .

In another embodiment keyword determiner may be configured to generate set of keywords based an automated process that selects set of keywords from bid query log which is associated with a search engine e.g. search engine . Bid query log is a log of bid queries that are received from advertisers that bid on keywords such that if the keywords are entered by a user into a search engine as a search query the advertisements of the advertisers that provide successful bids will be displayed in the search results as sponsored search advertisements. For example bid query log may include a list of advertisements or advertisement campaigns that include multiple advertisements provided by advertisers keywords that the advertisers bid on for each listed advertisement in their bid queries and the amount value of each bid e.g. in dollars cents . Keyword determiner may determine set of keywords by scanning bid query log and identifying clusters of semantically similar keywords or keywords associated with one or more advertising campaigns. For instance shows a block diagram of keyword determiner configured to generate and analyze bipartite graphs to identify keywords according to an example embodiment. Keyword determiner may include a graph generator of to generate a bipartite graph based on bid query log that clusters queries with bids within advertising campaigns. Keyword determiner may include a graph analyzer of to identify one or more clusters of keywords using the bipartite graph generated by graph generator and may include the keywords of the identified clusters of keywords in set of keywords .

For instance shows an example bid graph that may be generated by graph generator of keyword determiner from bid query log and may be used by keyword determiner to identify keyword clusters according to an embodiment. Bid graph is provided for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. Bid graph is a bipartite graph between query nodes e.g. query nodes q to q and advertisement nodes e.g. advertisement nodes a to a . Bid graph includes edges connected between query nodes and advertisement nodes. An edge in bid graph indicates that an advertisement a at a first end of an edge includes a bid on query keyword q at a second end of the edge. In embodiments bid graph may have any number of query nodes advertisement nodes and edges including hundreds thousands and even greater numbers of each of the same.

In the example of bid graph depicts advertisement a having bids on queries q and q advertisement a having bids on queries q q and q advertisement a having a bid on query q and advertisement a having bids on queries q and q e.g. as indicated in bid query log . To analyze bid graph graph analyzer may determine all i j cores of bid graph and include the queries of the determined i j cores in set of keywords . Graph analyzer determines the portions of bid graph having at least i query nodes and at least j URL nodes where the parameters i and j have predetermined values selected for a particular application. The values selected for parameters i and j control the granularity of the clustering. Techniques for analyzing bipartite graphs will be known to persons skilled in the relevant art s . For example if i 2 and j 2 then the query clusters in may be determined by graph analyzer as single query cluster of q q which is a 2 2 core. Queries q and q are determined to not be included in any 2 2 core. As such in the example of keyword determiner may generate and scan bid graph and select queries q and q to be included in set of keywords . In embodiments keyword determiner may determine any number of query clusters and may include any number of queries in set of keywords . Furthermore each query may be included in one or more clusters e.g. the query jaguar may be included in an animal query cluster and in a car query cluster .

Furthermore in an alternative embodiment graph generator of keyword determiner may generate bid graph for display to a user. The user may analyze bid graph rather than graph analyzer performing the analysis and may manually select query clusters of bid graph to be included in set of keywords e.g. by interacting with a user interface .

Query identifier is optionally present. As shown in query identifier receives set of keywords . Query identifier is configured to identify queries that are similar to the queries included in set of keywords and to output the identified queries and the keywords of set of keywords as identified queries . For example query identifier may receive a search log . Search log may be a search log generated by a search engine such as search engine of . Search log may include a list of queries that were received by the search engine may list documents e.g. by URL or other identifier that were present in the search results for each listed query and may optionally indicate which documents were selected by a user for each query. Query identifier may be configured to scan search log to identify queries associated with e.g. related to received set of keywords .

For instance in one example query identifier may set of keyword as including the keyword knitting. Query identifier may scan search log to identify similar queries to the keyword knitting. For example query identifier may identify a first query where can I find knitting needles a second query how much is yarn and a third query knitting a sweater as being similar to the keyword knitting. Query identifier may identify queries in search log that are similar to keywords in set of keywords in any manner including by locating the keywords of set of keywords in search log and determining other queries in search log that have similar search results to the located keywords e.g. have similar documents listed in their search results and or in other manner.

As shown in query grouper receives identified queries . Query grouper is configured to group identified queries into query clusters that are associated with similar URLs e.g. queries having shared or similar URLs . For instance in an embodiment query grouper may be configured to group identified queries using a bipartite graph that clusters queries with URLs. For instance shows a block diagram of query grouper configured to generate and analyze bipartite graphs to cluster queries according to an example embodiment. For example in an embodiment query grouper may include a graph generator of that generates a bipartite graph based on search log that clusters queries with URLs. Query grouper may include a graph analyzer of that identifies one or more clusters of queries using the bipartite graph and that may include the queries of the identified clusters of queries in query clusters .

For instance shows an example impression graph that may be generated by graph generator of query grouper based on the queries included in identified queries and their corresponding search results information in search log . Impression graph may be used by query grouper to identify query clusters in identified queries to be included in query clusters . Impression graph is provided for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. Impression graph is a bipartite graph between query nodes e.g. query nodes q to q and URL nodes e.g. URL nodes u to u . Impression graph includes edges connected between query nodes and URL nodes. An edge in impression graph indicates that a URL u at a first end of an edge is within a top K search results for a query q at a second end of the edge. K is a predetermined threshold number of search results that may have any suitable value selected for a particular application e.g. K 5 10 15 etc. . In embodiments impression graph may have any number of query nodes advertisement nodes and edges including hundreds thousands and even greater numbers of each of the same.

In the example of impression graph depicts URL u is within the top K results of queries q and q URL u is within the top K results of queries q q q and q URL u is within the top K results of queries q q q and q URL u is within the top K search results of queries q q and q and URL u is within the top K search results of query q. Similarly to the description provided above with respect to bid graph the values of parameters i and j control the granularity of the query clustering. For example if i 3 and j 3 then the query clusters in may be determined by graph analyzer as a single query cluster of q q q which is a 3 3 core and queries q and q are not part of any core. As such in the example of query grouper may generate and scan impression graph and select queries q q and q to be included in a query cluster of query clusters . In embodiments query grouper may determine any number of query clusters and may include any number of queries in query clusters . Furthermore each query may be included in one or more clusters.

Furthermore in an alternative embodiment graph generator of query grouper may generate impression graph for display to a user. The user may analyze impression graph rather than graph analyzer performing the analysis and may manually select query clusters of impression graph to be included in query clusters e.g. by interacting with a user interface .

As shown in cluster merger receives query clusters . Cluster merger is configured to determine an extended seed query string by merging overlapping clusters. For instance in one embodiment any clusters of query clusters that include a common query are merged to form a merged cluster. For instance if a first cluster and a second cluster both include the query q the first and second clusters may be merged to form a merged cluster that is included in extended seed query string . In another embodiment cluster merger may merge clusters of query clusters that are associated with URLs that overlap or have similarities.

For example in query clusters cluster merger may receive a first cluster q q q associated with a URL of knittingforbeginners.com a second cluster q q q associated with a URL of knittingninjas.com and a third cluster q q q associated with a URL of breienenjij.n dutch for knitting and you . Cluster merger may determine that the URLs overlap e.g. each include a version of the word knitting and may merge these clusters of query clusters to generate extended seed query string to include the merged cluster q q q q q q q of queries.

As shown in URL dominance determiner receives extended seed query string . URL dominance determiner is configured to determine whether a dominant URL is associated with extended seed query string and to output topic information associated with the determination. For instance in an embodiment URL dominance determiner may determine one or more scores based on extended seed query string associated with a topic defined by extended seed query string . For instance URL dominance determiner may calculate a score associated with a level of user interest with respect to topics associated with extended seed query string a score associated with a level of advertiser interest with respect to topics associated with extended seed query string and or a score associated with coverage of one or more URLs with respect to topics associated with extended seed query string . The one or more scores may indicate whether a dominant URL is associated with the queries query clusters of extended seed query string and or whether user and or advertiser interest in such a dominant URL exists. Examples of calculations of various scores that may be included in topic information are described as follows with respect to .

URL dominance determiner may compare the scores with various threshold values in order to determine whether a topic is associated with a dominant URL. The threshold values may identify a range of values that denote a dominant URL e.g. scores between 0.8 and 1.0 a range of values that denote a lack of dominant URL e.g. scores between 0.0 and 0.8 and so on.

As such topic identification module of may receive initial seed keywords or internally generate keywords and may generate topic information associated with a determination of whether a topic defined by keywords is associated with a dominant URL. For instance topic identification module may operate according to . shows a flowchart for identifying one or more topics unassociated with a dominant URL according to an example embodiment. Flowchart is described as follows with respect to topic identification module for illustrative purposes. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the following description of flowchart .

Flowchart begins with step . In step a seed query or seed keyword is received. For example as shown in keyword determiner receives initial seed keywords from a user which are output as set of keywords . Alternatively as described above keyword determiner may scan a bid log to determine keywords associated with advertisements to generate set of keywords .

In step a log of search queries is scanned to identify search queries associated with the received seed query. For instance in an embodiment as described above query identifier scans search log for determine identified queries that are similar to received initial seed keywords .

In step identified search queries are grouped into clusters associated with URLs. For example in an embodiment as described above query grouper groups search identified queries into query clusters using a bipartite graph e.g. impression graph of .

In step the clustered search queries are merged based on similarities of their associated URLs to determine an extended seed query string. For instance in an embodiment as described above query merger generates extended seed query string that includes merged clusters having overlapping queries and or that are associated with URLs that include similar or overlapping words.

In step information is generated to determine if a topic related to an extended seed query string is associated with a dominant URL. For example in an embodiment as described above URL dominance determiner may calculate one or more scores associated with user interest in a topic advertiser interest in a topic and or URL dominance for a topic. URL dominance determiner may compares the calculated scores to various threshold values or metrics to determine whether a dominant URL is associated with extended seed query string .

In step the generated information is output. For example in an embodiment as described above URL dominance determiner outputs topic information associated with a determination whether or not a topic is unassociated with a dominant URL.

As described with respect to step of URL dominance determiner may calculate various scores to determine whether a topic is associated with a dominant URL. show flowcharts for determining example scores according to embodiments. In calculating scores URL dominance determiner may in embodiments collect data for all queries associated with extended seed query string in order to calculate scores or metrics for the cluster. The scores for each extended keyword string are compared with one another to determine percentile scores across all clusters in a search log. For example clusters may be assigned scores between 0 and 1 with scores near 0 indicating relatively lower interest and or a lack of a dominant URL and scores near 1 indicating relatively higher interest and or an existence of a dominant URL.

Thus for a given topic associated with the query cluster of extended seed query string a metric or score associated with user interest in a topic is calculated. Values for k searches and time period T may be predetermined in any manner for a particular application. For instance an example value for k may be 5 searches and an example value for time period T may be 30 days e.g. a month . In one example percentile scores of U 0.8 e.g. many users and S 0.6 e.g. few searches per user may be determined in steps and such that a user interest score of 0.69 is determined in step indicating a relatively high level of user interest. Values of the user interest score that are less than 0.5 may indicate a relatively low level of user interest while values of the user interest score that are greater than 0.5 may indicate a relatively high level of user interest 1.0 indicates greatest user interest 0.0 indicates no user interest . In other embodiments a user interest score may be determined in other ways using the same information or different information.

Thus for a given topic associated with the query cluster of extended seed query string a metric or score associated with advertiser interest in a topic is calculated. In one example percentiles scores of A 0.5 e.g. few advertisers and R 0.99 e.g. high sponsorship values may be determined for steps and such that an advertiser interest score of 0.70 is determined step indicating a relatively high level of advertiser interest. Values of the advertiser interest score that are less than 0.5 may indicate a relatively low level of advertiser interest while values of the advertiser interest score that are greater than 0.5 may indicate a relatively high level of advertiser interest 1.0 indicates greatest advertiser interest 0.0 indicates no advertiser interest . In other embodiments an advertiser interest score may be determined in other ways using the same information or different information.

Thus for a given topic associated with the query cluster of extended seed query string a metric or score associated with a dominance of a single URL is calculated. In one example percentile scores of D 0.9 e.g. high rank score and C 0.6 e.g. average click score may be determined for steps and and a domain importance score of 0.73 may be determined for step indicating a relatively high level of URL dominance. Values of the URL dominance score that are less than 0.5 may indicate a relatively low level of URL dominance while values of the URL dominance score that are greater than 0.5 may indicate a relatively high level of URL dominance 1.0 indicates greatest URL dominance 0.0 indicates no URL dominance . In other embodiments a URL dominance importance score may be determined in other ways using the same information or different information.

Thus in embodiments URL dominance determiner may calculate one or more scores to determine user interest in a topic associated with a cluster of queries advertiser interest in the topic and or URL dominance for the topic and outputs topic information . The one or more scores may be included in topic information . Additionally and or alternatively topic information may provide an indication of whether or not a dominant URL exists for a topic associated with the query cluster of extended seed query string e.g. a dominant URL may be determined to not exist for the topic if the URL dominance importance score is relatively low and if not may provide an indication of whether generating content associated with the topic is desirable e.g. may be desirable if one or both of the user interest and advertiser interest scores are relatively high Topic information may be received by content generation module and content generation module may generate content such as web pages for a topic when topic information indicates the topic is unassociated with a dominant URL and there is user and or advertiser interest in the topic. The following section describes examples of content generation for topics.

As described above in embodiments information may be provided to content generation module indicating whether a topic defined by a query cluster is associated with a dominant URL. Content generation module may be configured to generate web page associated with the topic. For instance if a dominant URL is determined to not be associated with the topic generating a web page at a new URL for the topic may fill the void due to the lack of dominant URL. For instance content generation module may be configured to generate titles and or textual snippets in order to create a web page for the topic. That is for a given set of queries determined to be unassociated with a dominant URL content generation module may perform various techniques to generate content for a web page corresponding to the topic defined by the set of queries.

Example embodiments for content generation module and for further techniques for generating content for topics are described as follows. Content generation module may be configured in various ways in embodiments. For instance shows a block diagram of a content generation module according to an example embodiment. Content generation module is an example of content generation module of . As shown in content generation module includes a document retriever a content generator and a page creator . These elements of content generation module are described as follows.

As shown in document retriever receives topic information from topic identification module . As shown in document retriever receives extended seed query string and receives topic information for a topic defined by extended seed query string . Topic information may indicate whether the topic is unassociated with a dominant URL. Furthermore document retriever receives search log . As described above search log may include a list of queries that were received by the search engine may list documents e.g. by URL or other identifier that were present in the search results for each listed query and may optionally indicate which documents were selected by a user for each query. In an embodiment document retriever may include a network interface such as an API application programming interface configured to receive topic information extended seed query string and or search log from over a network e.g. a LAN WAN combination of networks etc. .

In an embodiment if topic information indicates that a topic defined by extended seed query string is unassociated with a dominant URL document retriever and the remainder of content generation module may be enabled to proceed further with content generation. If topic information indicates that a topic defined by extended seed query string is already associated with a dominant URL document retriever and the remainder of content generation module may be disabled.

Document retriever may scan search log for documents associated with the queries of extended seed query string . For example document retriever may retrieve documents appearing in the search results for the queries by URL or other identifier. In one embodiment document retriever may scan search log to identify URLs for each query that were clicked or selected more than a predetermined number of times and may retrieve the documents identified by the URLs. As shown in document retriever outputs retrieved documents which includes the retrieved documents.

Content generator receives retrieved documents . Content generator is configured to generate content based on retrieved documents that is representative of the topic defined by extended seed query string . Content generator may generate various types of content using a variety of techniques. For instance in an embodiment content generator may generate a title for a web page associated with the topic by analyzing retrieved documents . In an embodiment content generator may generate textual snippets and or other body text for a web page associated with the topic based on the contents of retrieved documents .

For instance in an embodiment content generator may merge the content of all the documents included in retrieved documents into a single document referred to as a compilation document. Content generator may optionally weight the merged content in the compilation document based on the click rate of the URLs in search log corresponding to the documents of retrieved documents . Thus when generating the compilation document content generator may add the content of a first document corresponding to a first URL ten times more than the content of a second document corresponding to a second URL if the first URL is determined to be clicked ten times more than the second URL. In other embodiments content generator may weight the merged content in the compilation document in additional and or alternative ways.

Content generator may be configured to summarize the compilation document using n grams and TF IDF scores. For instance an n gram w of the document d is a phrase consisting of n consecutive words. For instance a unigram is a single word in a document a bi gram is a pair of words of the document a tri gram is a triplet of words in the document etc. A TD IDF score may be generated for each n gram w in the compilation document. The TD IDF score for an n gram w may be generated based on the term frequency of the n gram in the compilation document and on the inverse document frequency of the n gram across all URLs in search log . A TF IDF score for an n gram may be calculated according to Equation 1 shown below Equation 1 where

That is TFis calculated as the number of times the n gram w is contained within the document d and IDFis calculated as the total number of documents by URL divided by the number of documents that contain the n gram.

Thus according to Equation 1 comparatively higher TF IDF scores for n grams indicate the n grams may be included in text snippets and or a title for a new web page to be generated for a topic. Content generator may select n grams of the compilation document having TF IDF scores higher than a predetermined threshold may select n grams of the of the compilation document having TF IDF scores in a top percentile e.g. top 10 or other percentile and or may select n grams of the of the compilation document in other ways to be used to generate content. As shown in content generator outputs selected content which includes the selected n grams e.g. terms or phrases to be utilized in creating a new web page for a topic.

Page creator receives the selected content associated with high TF IDF scores. In embodiments page creator creates web page using the received selected content . For example page creator may select a title for the web page from selected content . For instance page creator may select n grams of selected content that have the highest TF IDF scores e.g. top 10 of TD IDF scores of n grams of selected content that originated in titles from other web pages and or may create a title in other ways. Furthermore page creator may select text snippets from selected content for the web page using the entirety of or selected portions of selected content .

As such content generation module of may receive information related to a topic unassociated with a dominant URL and may generate content for a web page related to the topic. For instance content generation module may operate according to . shows a flowchart for generating content for a topic unassociated with a dominant URL according to an example embodiment. Flowchart is described as follows with respect to content generation module for illustrative purposes. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the following description of flowchart .

Flowchart begins with step . In step information associated with a query topic unassociated with a dominant URL is received. For example in one embodiment document retriever scans a query log and identifies documents URLs for queries of a query cluster that were clicked or selected more than a predetermined number of times.

In step content for the query topic is generated. For example in one embodiment content generator may generate a single compilation document that contains all of the content for URLs associated with a query cluster and may use the document to identify content e.g. terms and phrases that frequently occur in the compilation document but do not frequently occur in a corpus of documents associated with a search log.

In step a web page that includes the generated content is created. For example in one embodiment page creator generates web page that includes terms having high TF IDF scores in the title and in the body text of web page .

Of course page creator may create web page having other content such as other text snippets related to the topic images videos and other searchable media related to the topic and so on. Furthermore page creator may modify existing web pages with generated content received from content generator . For example after additional queries are received content generator may generate a modified title such as amateur soccer training for web page based on the techniques described herein.

As such in embodiments a compilation document is generated from documents URLs selected based on a cluster of queries. Content for a new web page is generated based n grams words and or phrases in the compilation document having high relevance to a topic associated with the cluster of queries. The new web page may be part of a new web site may be a new web page for an existing web site may be a modified web page in an existing web site and so on. Thus a publisher or other user may create a web site that includes content generated or suggested by the embodiments described herein. The new web page may be used to display advertisements which may be bid upon and or in other ways to generate revenue. Embodiments may be useful to publishers who may use generate web pages that attract users with interests related to the topic and thereby may attract advertisers due to the web pages containing content with both high user and advertiser interest. Publishers desire high appeal for advertisements that appear on their web properties. They want the ads to be viewed by the users as helpful information not intrusions. For example a bird watching blog wants to have appropriate and targeted ads appear next to the blog as the topics change from day to day. Embodiments enable web pages to be generated that fulfill unmet content needs and thereby enable targeted advertisements to be displayed in association with that content. In an output bidding scheme advertisers may be enabled to bid on a relatively small set of URLs and expect wide coverage. Bidding for individual keywords can do this but specific target keywords can change based on blog content and it takes time and effort to continuously change the keywords used for ad bidding. Embodiments overcome these deficiencies.

Search engine advertisement selector search system search system topic identification module content generation module topic identification module keyword determiner query identifier query grouper cluster merger URL dominance determiner graph generator graph analyzer graph generator graph analyzer content generation module document retriever content generator page creator user interest score calculator advertiser interest score calculator and URL dominance score calculator may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example search engine advertisement selector search system search system topic identification module content generation module topic identification module keyword determiner query identifier query grouper cluster merger URL dominance determiner graph generator graph analyzer graph generator graph analyzer content generation module document retriever content generator page creator user interest score calculator advertiser interest score calculator and or URL dominance score calculator may be implemented as computer program code configured to be executed in one or more processors. Alternatively search engine advertisement selector search system search system topic identification module content generation module topic identification module keyword determiner query identifier query grouper cluster merger URL dominance determiner graph generator graph analyzer graph generator graph analyzer content generation module document retriever content generator page creator user interest score calculator advertiser interest score calculator and or URL dominance score calculator may be implemented as hardware logic electrical circuitry.

The embodiments described herein including systems methods processes and or apparatuses may be implemented using well known servers computers such as a computer shown in . For example computers search engine advertisement selector search system and or search system can be implemented using one or more computers .

Computer can be any commercially available and well known computer capable of performing the functions described herein such as computers available from International Business Machines Apple Sun HP Dell Cray etc. Computer may be any type of computer including a desktop computer a server etc.

Computer includes one or more processors also called central processing units or CPUs such as a processor . Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure such as a communication bus. In some embodiments processor can simultaneously operate multiple computing threads.

Computer also includes a primary or main memory such as random access memory RAM . Main memory has stored therein control logic A computer software and data.

Computer also includes one or more secondary storage devices . Secondary storage devices include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive as well as other types of storage devices such as memory cards and memory sticks. For instance computer may include an industry standard interface such a universal serial bus USB interface for interfacing with devices such as a memory stick. Removable storage drive represents a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive an optical storage device tape backup etc.

Removable storage drive interacts with a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit includes a computer useable or readable storage medium having stored therein computer software B control logic and or data. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical storage disk or any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive reads from and or writes to removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Communication interface enables the computer to communicate with remote devices. For example communication interface allows computer to communicate over communication networks or mediums representing a form of a computer useable or readable medium such as LANs WANs the Internet etc. Network interface may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.

Any apparatus or manufacture comprising a computer useable or readable medium having control logic software stored therein is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to computer main memory secondary storage devices and removable storage unit . Such computer program products having control logic stored therein that when executed by one or more data processing devices cause such data processing devices to operate as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

Devices in which embodiments may be implemented may include storage such as storage drives memory devices and further types of computer readable media. Examples of such computer readable storage media include a hard disk a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM and the like. As used herein the terms computer program medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to the hard disk associated with a hard disk drive a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk e.g. CDROMs DVDs etc. zip disks tapes magnetic storage devices MEMS micro electromechanical systems storage nanotechnology based storage devices as well as other media such as flash memory cards digital video discs RAM devices ROM devices and the like. Such computer readable storage media may store program modules that include computer program logic for search engine advertisement selector search system search system topic identification module content generation module topic identification module keyword determiner query identifier query grouper cluster merger URL dominance determiner graph generator graph analyzer graph generator graph analyzer content generation module document retriever content generator page creator user interest score calculator advertiser interest score calculator URL dominance score calculator flowchart flowchart flowchart flowchart and or flowchart including any one or more steps of the flowcharts and or further embodiments of the present invention described herein. Embodiments of the invention are directed to computer program products comprising such logic e.g. in the form of program code or software stored on any computer useable medium. Such program code when executed in one or more processors causes a device to operate as described herein.

The invention can work with software hardware and or operating system implementations other than those described herein. Any software hardware and operating system implementations suitable for performing the functions described herein can be used.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

