---

title: Operating system supporting mixed 2D, stereoscopic 3D and multi-view 3D displays
abstract: Operating systems are described that interface applications and display screens capable of displaying two-dimensional and three-dimensional content. In one aspect, an operating system includes an application programming interface (API), a display driver interface, and a display driver. The API enables one or more applications to deliver requests that define a screen region and either a two-dimension indicator or a three-dimension indicator. The display driver interface passes configuration commands corresponding to the requests. The display driver is associated with a display screen. The display driver receives the configuration commands and responds by generating screen control signals to adjust the display screen to support the screen region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09124885&OS=09124885&RS=09124885
owner: Broadcom Corporation
number: 09124885
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 291 818 filed on Dec. 31 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 303 119 filed on Feb. 10 2010 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is also related to the following U.S. Patent Applications each of which also claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Nos. 61 291 818 and 61 303 119 and each of which is incorporated by reference herein 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 titled Display With Adaptable Parallax Barrier filed Jul. 28 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 titled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D And Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions filed Jul. 28 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 titled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views filed Jul. 28 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 titled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator filed May 5 2010 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 020 titled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier filed on same date herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 140 titled Internet Browser And Associated Content Definition Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith 

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 173 titled Application Programming Interface Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith and

U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 156 titled Programming Architecture Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith.

Images may be generated for display in various forms. For instance television TV is a widely used telecommunication medium for transmitting and displaying images in monochromatic black and white or color form. Conventionally images are provided in analog form and are displayed by display devices in two dimensions. More recently images are being provided in digital form for display in two dimensions on display devices having improved resolution e.g. high definition or HD . Even more recently images capable of being displayed in three dimensions are being generated.

Conventional displays may use a variety of techniques to achieve three dimensional image viewing functionality. For example various types of glasses have been developed that may be worn by users to view three dimensional images displayed by a conventional display. Examples of such glasses include glasses that utilize color filters or polarized filters. In each case the lenses of the glasses pass two dimensional images of differing perspective to the user s left and right eyes. The images are combined in the visual center of the brain of the user to be perceived as a three dimensional image. In another example synchronized left eye right eye LCD liquid crystal display shutter glasses may be used with conventional two dimensional displays to create a three dimensional viewing illusion. In still another example LCD display glasses are being used to display three dimensional images to a user. The lenses of the LCD display glasses include corresponding displays that provide images of differing perspective to the user s eyes to be perceived by the user as three dimensional.

Some displays are configured for viewing three dimensional images without the user having to wear special glasses such as by using techniques of autostereoscopy. For example a display may include a parallax barrier that has a layer of material with a series of precision slits. The parallax barrier is placed proximal to a display so that a user s eyes each see a different set of pixels to create a sense of depth through parallax. Another type of display for viewing three dimensional images is one that includes a lenticular lens. A lenticular lens includes an array of magnifying lenses configured so that when viewed from slightly different angles different images are magnified. Displays are being developed that use lenticular lenses to enable autostereoscopic images to be generated.

As such many types of display devices exist that are capable of displaying three dimensional images and further types are being developed. Different types of displays that enable three dimensional image viewing may have different capabilities and attributes including having different depth resolutions being configured for three dimensional image viewing only being switchable between two dimensional image viewing and three dimensional image viewing and further capabilities and attributes. Furthermore different types of applications may be configured to provide and or interact with the displays to provide either two dimensional or three dimensional image content. However each application may not be directly compatible with each type of display device.

Methods systems and apparatuses are described for an operating system that interfaces users and applications with display devices that have three dimensional image generating capability substantially as shown in and or described herein in connection with at least one of the figures as set forth more completely in the claims.

The present invention will now be described with reference to the accompanying drawings. In the drawings like reference numbers indicate identical or functionally similar elements. Additionally the left most digit s of a reference number identifies the drawing in which the reference number first appears.

The present specification discloses one or more embodiments that incorporate the features of the invention. The disclosed embodiment s merely exemplify various aspects of the invention. The scope of the invention is not limited to the disclosed embodiment s . The invention is defined by the claims appended hereto.

References in the specification to one embodiment an embodiment an example embodiment etc. indicate that the embodiment described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but every embodiment may not necessarily include the particular feature structure or characteristic. Moreover such phrases are not necessarily referring to the same embodiment. Further when a particular feature structure or characteristic is described in connection with an embodiment it is submitted that it is within the knowledge of one skilled in the art to effect such feature structure or characteristic in connection with other embodiments whether or not explicitly described.

Furthermore it should be understood that spatial descriptions e.g. above below up left right down top bottom vertical horizontal etc. used herein are for purposes of illustration only and that practical implementations of the structures described herein can be spatially arranged in any orientation or manner.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to operating systems that interface users and applications with display devices that have three dimensional image display capability. Numerous types of applications and display devices may be interfaced by the operating system. For example the display devices may include one or more light manipulators such as parallax barriers and or lenticular lenses to deliver 3D media content in the form of images or views to the eyes of the viewers. Other types may include display devices with 3D display pixel constructs that may or may not employ such light manipulators. When used light manipulators may be fixed or dynamically modified to change the manner in which the views are delivered. For instance embodiments enable light manipulators that are adaptable to accommodate a changing viewer sweet spot switching between two dimensional 2D stereoscopic three dimensional 3D and multi view 3D views as well as the simultaneous display of 2D stereoscopic 3D and multi view 3D content. With regard to parallax barriers example features that may be dynamically modified include one or more of a number of slits in the parallax barriers the dimensions of each slit the spacing between the slits and the orientation of the slits. Slits of the parallax barriers may also be turned on or off in relation to certain regions of the screen such that simultaneous mixed 2D stereoscopic 3D and multi view 3D presentations can be accommodated. Similarly a lenticular lens may be dynamically modified such as by modifying a width of the lenticular lens to modify delivered images.

The following subsections describe numerous exemplary embodiments of the present invention. For instance the next subsection describes embodiments for operating systems followed by a subsection that describes embodiments for interfacing applications with display devices a subsection that describes embodiments for interfacing users with display devices a subsection that describes operating system start up embodiments a subsection that describes example display environments and a subsection that describes example electronic devices.

It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made to the embodiments described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of exemplary embodiments described herein.

In embodiments operating systems that provide native support for the display of mixed content are provided. For example in one embodiment an operating system comprises a graphical user interface GUI in which video content such as that produced by executing an application can be displayed in a window or frame. The operating system enables one or more parameters to be associated with the window or frame wherein the parameters can specify for example one or more of a type of video content to be displayed within the window or frame e.g. 2D stereoscopic 3D or a particular type of multi view 3D a desired orientation of the video content within the window or frame a brightness contrast to be associated with the window or frame and or a video resolution to be associated with the window or frame. The parameters to be associated with a window or frame may be specified programmatically or determined dynamically at run time. The parameters may also be modified at run time by a user through a user control interface provided by the operating system. The operating system is further configured to cause one or more function calls to be placed to a graphics API application programming interface or device driver so that a window is opened on the display and the video content is presented therein in a manner that is consistent with the associated parameters.

For instance shows a block diagram of a system according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in system includes one or more applications an operating system OS and hardware . System is a system where OS interfaces together one or more users and application s with hardware . System may be implemented in a single device or across multiple devices.

OS provides a platform on which programs may be executed. OS may be implemented in software e.g. computer programs and or data that runs on a device. OS manages hardware provides common services enables execution of application s and enables application s to access hardware . Application s may call OS and or be interrupted by OS for various reasons. OS may include a user interface such as a graphical user interface GUI which a user may interact with to access application s and or hardware . In some cases application s may interact directly with hardware . Hardware may include one or more hardware components such as one or more processors e.g. a central processing unit and or memory devices e.g. random access memory RAM disk drives printers one or more display devices a keyboard a mouse etc. Application s may be implemented according to any suitable programming languages. Example description of implementations of programming languages for applications and other applications described herein is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 156 titled Programming Architecture Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety although application s and further applications described herein are not limited to such implementations.

As shown in operating system includes mixed 2D 3D supporting logic . Mixed 2D 3D supporting logic enables operating system to support display of mixed 2D and 3D content according to an exemplary embodiment. For example logic may enable operating system to interface application s that provide two dimensional and or three dimensional content with display devices that are capable of separately displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content display devices that are capable of simultaneously displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content display devices that are capable of displaying different types of three dimensional content as well as display devices that can adaptively change the display of two dimensional and three dimensional contents e.g. by display screen region .

For instance shows a block diagram of a system which is an exemplary embodiment of system of . As shown in system includes application s operating system OS and a display device . As shown in operating system includes mixed 2D 3D supporting logic . Display device is a display device associated with system that is interfaced with application s by OS and enables display of images associated with application s to a user.

System may be implemented in one or more devices. For example in one embodiment application s OS and display device may be implemented in a common electronic device accessed by a user such as a mobile computing device e.g. a handheld computer a laptop computer a notebook computer a tablet computer e.g. an Apple iPad a netbook etc. a mobile phone e.g. a cell phone a smart phone a mobile email device some types of televisions etc. In another embodiment as shown in OS and application s may be implemented together in an electronic device that is separate from display device . For instance device may be a home theater system receiver a set top box a computer a game console or other such device and display device may be a display device that is coupled to device in a wired or wireless fashion.

In embodiments display device may be one of a variety of display devices capable of displaying two dimensional and or three dimensional images content. For instance shows a block diagram of a system which is an exemplary embodiment of system of . As shown in system includes application s operating system OS a first display device and a second display device . As shown in operating system includes mixed 2D 3D supporting logic . First display device is a display device that is only capable of displaying two dimensional content and second display device is a display device that is capable of display two dimensional content and three dimensional content. In the example of via mixed 2D 3D supporting logic OS is capable of interfacing application s with first and second display devices and . As such OS is capable of interfacing two dimensional and three dimensional content with display devices. In embodiments OS may be capable of interfacing application s with first and second display devices and one at a time. In another embodiment OS may be capable of interfacing application s with first and second display devices and and or other combinations and numbers of display devices simultaneously.

OS may be implemented in various ways to interface a user and application s with display devices that are capable of displaying two dimensional content and or three dimensional content. For instance shows a block diagram of an electronic device that includes an operating system according to an exemplary embodiment. Device may be any of the electronic devices mentioned herein as including an operating system e.g. electronic devices and of or may be an alternative device. OS is configured to interface users and applications with display devices that are capable of displaying two dimensional content and or three dimensional content. In an embodiment OS may be a proprietary operating system. In another embodiment OS may be a commercially available operating system that is modified to enable users and applications to be interface with display devices capable of displaying two dimensional content and or three dimensional content. For instance operating systems such as Microsoft Windows Apple Mac OS X Google Android and Linux may be modified according to embodiments.

As shown in OS includes a user input interface an API application programming interface a kernel and one or more display driver s . User input interface is configured to receive user input to enable a person to interact with device and associated applications and hardware. For instance user input interface may provide a command line interface that allows commands to be entered in the form of text and or may provide a graphical user interface GUI that provides a visual environment for a user to interact with device . For instance the GUI may generate graphical windows buttons menus and or icons displayed by a display device that may be interacted with by a user. In embodiments user input interface may be implemented in kernel or separately from kernel e.g. in user space as shown in .

API is an interface implemented in software e.g. computer program code or logic that is configured to interface one or more applications e.g. application s of with OS and thereby interface the applications with a display device e.g. one or both of display devices and coupled to OS . API may be configured to enable applications to access various display functions such as enabling regional definition for two dimensional and or three dimensional display screen areas enabling movement of 2D 3D screen elements e.g. windows or objects and or enabling further display functions by the applications. Furthermore API may be configured to perform graphics operations on graphics information received from applications for display. In embodiments API may be language dependent such that API may be accessed using a particular programming language or may be language independent such that API can be accessed using multiple programming languages. API may be a special purpose API or may be a commercially available API such as Microsoft DirectX e.g. Direct3D OpenGL or other 3D graphics API which may be modified according to embodiments. Further description of implementations of API and other API implementations described herein is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 173 titled Application Programming Interface Supporting Mixed Two And Three Dimensional Displays filed on same date herewith which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Kernel is a central component of OS that is configured to bridge applications and hardware. Kernel may manage resources of device and enable applications to run and to use the resources. For instance kernel may allocate running applications to one or more processors of device may allocate memory to the applications and may allocate requests from applications to perform I O input output operations with regard to hardware resources associated with device such as a keyboard mouse disk drives printers and displays. For example as shown in kernel includes a display driver interface . As described in further detail below display driver interface enables applications that interface with OS via API to provide and control two and or three dimensional content displayed at a display device associated with device . For instance display driver interface may include mixed 2D 3D supporting logic of . To display an image on a screen of a display device an application may provide a request to kernel which is handled by display driver interface . Display driver interface forwards the request to a display driver which may handle generating plotting information for displaying the image at the display device.

Display driver s are one or more display drivers that may be included in operating system . A display driver may be implemented in software and enables applications e.g. higher level application code to interact with a display device. Each display driver of display driver s is typically display device specific although some display drivers may be capable of driving multiple types of display devices. Due to the presence of display driver s programmers can write and input higher level application code to API independently of the specific display device associated with device enabling the application code and display device to interface in a standard way. Each type of display device typically is controlled by its own display device specific commands. In contrast most applications communicate with display devices according to high level device generic commands. A display driver accepts the generic high level commands via API and display driver interface and breaks them into a series of low level display device specific commands as used by the particular display device. In an embodiment a display driver may be configured to filter out one or more parameters received with a command that is are incompatible with the display device screen coupled to device .

As such using a display driver multiple applications that communicate using standard high level commands can access a particular display device through OS . Furthermore OS may include multiple display drivers to enable multiple applications to communicate with multiple corresponding display devices.

As described above OS of is configured to interface users and applications with display devices that are capable of displaying two dimensional content and or three dimensional content. OS may be configured in various ways to perform its functions and various embodiments for OS are described herein. For instance shows a block diagram of a display system similar to display system of according to an embodiment. As shown in display system includes an embodiment of OS that is configured to interface users and applications with display devices that are capable of displaying two dimensional content and or three dimensional content. The embodiment of OS shown in is provided for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. In further embodiments OS may include fewer additional and or alternative features than shown in .

Display system is an example of a display system that is capable of displaying mixed 2D and 3D content e.g. via mixed 2D 3D supporting logic . As shown in system includes operating system first third application programs first third display circuitry a 2D display a 3D display with 2D mode and a regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display . Operating system includes user input interfaces a 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface shell operations 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services and an API supporting regional 2D 3Dx . 2D 3Dx and mixed display driver interface includes 2D only driver variant 3Dx only driver variant and mixed 2D and 3Ds driver variant . First application program includes processed and or generated content plus setup and control for multiple regions 2D 3Dx . Second application program includes internally processed single region 2D 3Dx content plus setup and control . Third application program includes internally generated signal region 2D 3Dx content plus setup and control . First third display circuitry each include a corresponding one of translation services . The features of system are described as follows.

2D display 3D display with 2D mode and regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display are example types of display devices that may be interfaced with applications by OS . One or more of displays may be separately coupled to OS via display circuitry or simultaneously coupled to OS . 2D display is an example of 2D display device of and is a display device that is only capable of displaying two dimensional content. 3Dx display with 2D mode is an example of 2D 3D display device of and is a display device that is capable of displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content. For instance 3Dx display with 2D mode may be set in a 2D mode where 3Dx display with 2D mode can display 2D content in full screen but not 3D content and may be set in a 3D mode where 3Dx display with 2D mode can display 3D content in full screen but not 2D content. Furthermore 3Dx display with 2D mode may be capable of displaying 3D content having multiple camera views a number of x views such as 3D 4 having four camera views 3D 16 having sixteen camera views etc. The additional camera views enable viewers to view behind displayed 3D content by moving their heads left right as further described elsewhere herein. Regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display is an example of 2D 3D display device of and is a display device that is capable of displaying two dimensional and three dimensional content simultaneously. For instance regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display may display 2D content on one or more regions of a display screen while simultaneously displaying 3D content on one or more other regions of the display screen. Furthermore regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display may be capable of displaying 3D content having multiple camera views.

First third application programs are examples of application s of that may be interfaced with displays . One or more of applications may separately or simultaneously execute and interact with OS to provide content for display by displays . First application program which includes processed and or generated content plus setup and control for multiple regions 2D 3Dx is capable of processing received 2D 3D and 3Dx content and or generating 2D 3D and 3Dx content and is capable of setting up and controlling multiple separate display screen regions that each display 2D 3D or 3Dx content. Second application program which includes internally processed single region 2D 3Dx content plus setup and control is capable of processing received 2D 3D and 3Dx content and is capable of setting up and controlling a single display screen region that displays 2D 3D or 3Dx content. Third application program which includes internally generated signal region 2D 3Dx content plus setup and control is capable of internally generating 2D 3D and 3Dx content and is capable of setting up and controlling a single display screen region that displays 2D 3D or 3Dx content.

API supporting regional 2D 3Dx is an example of API of . API supporting regional 2D 3Dx is configured to interface one or more applications e.g. application with OS and thereby interface the applications with a display device e.g. one or more of displays coupled to OS . API supporting regional 2D 3Dx is configured to enable applications to access various display functions including enabling regional definition for 2D 3D and 3Dx content displayed by display screens and further display functions.

User input interfaces are an example of user input interface of . User input interfaces are configured to receive user input to enable a person to interact with display system applications and content displayed by displays 

2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface is an example of display driver interface of and 2D only driver variant 3Dx only driver variant and mixed 2D and 3Dx driver variant are examples of display driver s of . 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface enables applications that interface with OS via API to provide and control two and or three dimensional content displayed at a displays . For instance 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface may forward commands e.g. from one or more of applications to 2D only driver variant when 2D display is present enabling only 2D related commands to be processed. 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface may forward commands to 3Dx only driver variant when 3Dx display with 2D mode is present enabling 2D or 3Dx related commands to be processed. 2D 3Dx mixed display driver interface may forward commands to mixed 2D and 3Dx driver variant when regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display is present enabling regional 2D or 3Dx related commands to be processed.

Shell operations may be present in OS to control and or enable user configuration of environmental properties such as the 2D and or 3D display configuration of an environmental background of desktop icons of displayed windows etc. In embodiments shell operations may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof including as a shell operations module. Examples of shell operations are described elsewhere herein.

Mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services may be present in OS to provide for translation of received content e.g. from applications from a first dimensionality to a second dimensionality. For instance translation services may be configured to translate received 3D content to 2D content such as when an application provides 3D content and 2D display is the target display e.g. the target display is not capable of displaying 3D content . In another example translation services may be configured to translate a first type of 3D content to a second type of 3D content such as when an application provides regional 2D and or 3D content and 3Dx display with 2D mode is the target display e.g. the target display is not capable of displaying content regionally and or to translate 3D content having a first number x of cameras e.g. 3D 8 content to 3D content having a second number y of cameras e.g. 3D 4 content if the target display does not support x camera views. Still further translation services may be configured to translate 2D content to 3D content and or may be able to perform other forms of content translations. Example embodiments for mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services e.g. translators are described elsewhere herein.

Display circuitry may have the form of hardware software firmware or any combination thereof such as having the form of a graphics card circuitry etc. Display circuitry may be present to interface OS with displays respectively. Display circuitry may receive content signals and control signals from OS and may be configured to generate drive signals to drive displays respectively. Examples of display circuitry e.g. drive circuits are described elsewhere herein.

As shown in display circuitry may each optionally include a corresponding one of translation services . When present translation services may perform translations of received content in a similar manner as mixed 2D and 3Dx mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services . For instance translation services may translate received 3D content to 2D content for display by 2D display . Translation services may translate received regionally configurable 2D and or 3D content to non regional 2D and or 3D content for display by 3Dx display with 2D mode display . Translation services and may each translate unsupported types of 3D content to supported types of 3D content for display by 3Dx display with 2D mode display and regionally configurable 2D 3Dx display respectively. Translation services may also be configured to perform additional and or alternative forms of content translations in embodiments.

The embodiments of display system of and of OS shown in are provided for purposes of illustration. In further embodiments Display system and OS may include fewer further and or alternative components as would be known to persons skilled in the relevant art s . Further embodiments regarding the features of display system of and of OS shown in are described in the following subsections.

As described above API receives requests and content from applications for display devices associated with device . shows a flowchart providing a process for interfacing an application with a display device through an operating system according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart may be performed by OS shown in for example. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a block diagram of an application interfaced with a display device by OS according to an exemplary embodiment. In the example of OS includes user input interface API kernel and a display driver . Display driver is an example of one of display driver s of . Device of is not shown in for ease of illustration but it is noted that application may be included in device and display device may be included in or may be external to device . Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step a command directing display of content on a screen is received from an application. For example as shown in a request may be received by OS from application . Application may be any type of application associated with the display of content including a media player a video game a browser etc. Request may include a configuration command from application directed to the display of content on a screen of display device . Request may be directed to the display of two dimensional or three dimensional content and may be directed to the display of content in any region of screen including a portion of screen or the entirety of screen . As shown in request is received by API . As such request is a command configured according to a convention defined by API for receiving display configuration requests. As shown in API passes request to display driver interface of kernel as configuration command . Furthermore display driver interface passes configuration command to display driver as configuration command .

In step the command is responded to by sending a control signal that places the screen in a display mode corresponding to the content. For example as shown in display driver generates a control signal . Control signal is generated based on configuration command and is configured to place screen of display device in a display mode corresponding to content to be displayed by screen . For instance in an embodiment display driver is configured as a display driver specifically for display device or may be configured as a display driver for a plurality of types of display devices including display device . Display device receives control signal and screen of display device is configured according to control signal to be enabled to display the content as desired. For example in an embodiment control signal may be received by display driver circuits of display device and the display driver circuits may generate drive signals to configure display components of screen according to control signal .

Note that request may have any suitable format as defined by API . For instance shows a block diagram of a request according to an exemplary embodiment. Request is an example of request of . As shown in request includes a command and one or more parameters . Request may include any number of parameters as dictated by the particular command . Request may have various forms depending on the configuration action desired to be performed by application .

For example request may be a request from application to open a frame or window for display by screen of display device . In such an example command may be an open frame or open window command. Furthermore one or more parameters may be present to define attributes of the frame window to be opened. For instance one or more parameters may be present to define a size of a region of screen in which the frame or window is to be opened. For instance parameters may be row column width and height parameters respectively where the row and column parameters window position parameters define coordinates of an upper left corner of the window to be opened and the width and height parameters window size parameters define the width and height e.g. in pixels or other measure of the window to be opened. Furthermore a parameter may be present to define whether the window to be opened is to display two dimensional content or three dimensional content. For instance parameter may be a 2D 3D indicator parameter that contains either a two dimensional indicator or a three dimensional indicator to define the window to be opened as displaying two dimensional content or three dimensional content respectively.

The open window command may include further parameters such as a window resolution parameter a window orientation parameter e.g. whether image content is to be displayed vertically or rotated by 90 degrees or by other amount a three dimensional display type parameter a subframe full frame child window parameter a freeform window parameter e.g. whether the window may have a non rectangular shape a three dimensional content source indication parameter etc. For example in an embodiment where a three dimensional indicator is present in request a three dimensional display type parameter may be present to define a number of image pairs to be provided to the window to be opened corresponding to a number of three dimensional views to be provided by the window e.g. whether the window is not multiview or is multiview 4 3D 16 3D etc. . Furthermore a three dimensional display type parameter may be present to define a depth of three dimensionality to be provided in the window to be opened. In another example a parameter may be provided to indicate whether the window to be opened is to provide three dimensional content and is to be adaptable based on factors such as bandwidth e.g. increasing or decreasing a number of camera views that are displayed based on a data rate of incoming content etc.

In a similar manner as the open window command further commands may be defined by request . In further examples request may be a request from application to close a window displayed in screen to move a window displayed in screen to resize a window displayed in screen to rotate a window displayed in screen or other type of request. As such command may be a close window command and one of parameters may include a window handle identifying the window to be closed. In another example command may be move window command and parameters may include row and column parameters that define the new upper left corner of the window being moved. In another example command may be resize window command and parameters may include width and height parameters that define the new width and height of the window being resized. In still another example command may be rotate window command and parameters may include an indication e.g. in degrees of an amount by which the window is to be rotated.

In further embodiments command and parameters may have other forms to define further functions as would be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s . For example in embodiments request may be a request for information regarding an open window. For instance command may define a request for a window type e.g. 2D or 3D a window handle a window position an indication of the capabilities of the window and or screen and or other window or screen characteristic. Another example command may define a request to OS for capabilities of screen display device so that applications may learn of window screen capabilities prior to attempting to open and populate windows. Further commands and parameters may be defined as directed to frames objects and or other display elements having similar parameters as those defined above for windows or having other parameters.

Referring back to after a window is opened in screen according to request application or other source may provide the corresponding two dimensional or three dimensional content to be displayed in the opened window. For instance application may generate and provide the content or may receive and forward the content from another source such as content received over a network content received from a storage device associated with device of e.g. a hard disc drive a DVD digital video disc drive a memory stick etc. . Application may transmit the content which is received by API . API may operationally perform some graphics processing on the content and may provide the processed content to display driver through display driver interface or directly to display driver . Display driver may perform further processing formatting of the processed content and may provide the content to display device to be displayed by screen .

As described above multiple applications may simultaneously interface with a display device through OS . For example shows a flowchart providing a process for interfacing applications with a display device through an operating system according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart may be performed by OS shown in for example. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a block diagram of first and second applications and interfaced with display device by OS according to an exemplary embodiment. Note that although two applications are shown in any number of applications may be interfaced by OS with a display device. Furthermore such applications may be associated with any combination of two dimensional and or three dimensional content. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step a first command is received from a first application directing display of two dimensional content within a first region of the screen. For example as shown in a first request may be received by API of OS from first application . First request may include a configuration command from application directed to the display of two dimensional content on screen of display device . For instance the command of request may be an open window command or other command that enables or directs display of content in a particular first region of screen and may include a parameter that indicates that the displayed content is to be two dimensional content.

In step the first command is responded to by sending a first control signal that places the screen in a two dimensional mode within the first region. For instance as shown in API transmits a command corresponding to request that is received by display driver interface and display driver interface passes command to display driver as command . Display driver generates a first control signal that places screen in a two dimensional display mode within the first region of screen indicated in first request . For example in an embodiment first control signal may be received by display driver circuits of display device and the display driver circuits may generate drive signals to configure display components of screen with regard to the first screen region according to first control signal

In step a second command is received from a second application directing display of three dimensional content within a second region of the screen. For example as shown in a second request may be received by API of OS from second application . Second request may include a configuration command from application directed to the display of three dimensional content on screen of display device . For instance the command of request may be an open window command or other command that enables or directs display of content in a particular second region of screen and may include a parameter that indicates that the displayed content is to be three dimensional content.

In step the second command is responded to by sending a second control signal that places the screen in a three dimensional mode within the second region. For instance as shown in API transmits a command corresponding to request that is received by display driver interface and display driver interface passes command to display driver as command . Display driver generates a second control signal that places screen in a three dimensional display mode within the second region of screen indicated in second request . For example in an embodiment second control signal may be received by display driver circuits of display device and the display driver circuits may generate drive signals to configure display components of screen with regard to the second screen region according to second control signal

As such according to flowchart multiple applications may simultaneously direct the display of two dimensional or three dimensional content within corresponding regions of screen . Furthermore in embodiments the display on screen of different types of three dimensional content e.g. different resolutions different numbers of image pairs different stereoscopic depths etc. may be directed by multiple applications simultaneously. In embodiments any number of different types of two dimensional and three dimensional content may be displayed in any number of regions of screen .

For instance A and B show examples of screen displaying content in various screen regions according to embodiments. shows screen including a first region and a second region . First region is configured for the display of two dimensional content according to steps and of flowchart and second region is configured for the display of three dimensional content according to steps and of flowchart . As shown in first region has a size that is approximately the full display area of screen and second region has a smaller size filling a rectangular space imposed on first region . For instance in one embodiment provided for purposes of illustration first region may be a two dimensional desktop region displayed on a computer screen and second region may be a window displaying three dimensional content in the desktop region. In another embodiment first region may correspond to two dimensional television content while second region is a picture in picture region that displays three dimensional television content overlaid on first region .

In another example shows screen including a first region and a second region . First region is configured for the display of two dimensional content according to steps and of flowchart and second region is configured for the display of three dimensional content according to steps and of flowchart . As shown in second region has a size that is approximately the full display area of screen and first region has a smaller size filling a rectangular space imposed on second region . For instance in one embodiment second region may be a three dimensional desktop region displayed on a computer screen and first region may be a window displaying two dimensional content in the desktop region. In another embodiment second region may correspond to three dimensional television content while first region is a picture in picture region that displays two dimensional television content overlaid on second region .

In another example shows screen including a first ninth regions . Any number of first ninth regions may be configured in a two dimensional mode and the remaining number of first ninth regions may be configured in a three dimensional mode. For instance second fifth sixth seventh and ninth regions and may be configured for the display of two dimensional content and first third fourth and eighth regions and may be configured for the display of three dimensional content. First region has a size that is approximately the full display area of screen . Second seventh regions have smaller sizes and are arranged in two columns on a left size of screen . Eighth and ninth regions and have medium sizes each filling a rectangular space imposed on first region . Eighth region overlaps with ninth region blocking a view of a portion of ninth region . For instance in one embodiment first region may be a three dimensional desktop region displayed on a computer screen second seventh regions may be an arrangement of two dimensional and three dimensional icons e.g. associated with applications displayed on the desktop region and eighth and ninth regions and may be windows displaying three dimensional and two dimensional content respectively in the desktop region.

Desktop includes a background having a 2D sky area and a 3D grass region that appears to stretch far into the distance. Desktop further includes unselected icons and of random or arbitrary shapes which appear floating in mid air in local 3D. Icons and may contain OS generated content and icon may contain 3D content delivered live via an external server for example. In accordance with this example the 3D content in icon may be actively changing and or moving around. Desktop further includes a selected icon which seems to be moving closer then farther away in a cycle while the window that was opened and relates to selected icon has a boundary region that seems to actively change in synchrony therewith.

Desktop also includes an active moving 2D or 3D object that has a non rectangular boundary. Desktop further includes a pointer used to assist a viewer input and display control architecture that may be anything illustrated and discussed in the present application and through which screen region configuration commands command command etc. can be accessed via for example a right click that opens a pop up window or other type of window. Desktop also includes a rectangular window with 3D icons that may move and present local or delivered content a 2D or 3D content screen 2D text or 3D movie for example originating remotely and a 2D or 3D boundary as mentioned above related to the selected icon .

Viewer input and display control architecture represents one or more of any type of integrated and multiple housing display and viewer control architectures. For instance architecture may include one or more user input interfaces configured to receive user input. Examples of a user input interface include but are not limited to a remote control device a traditional computer input device such as a keyboard or mouse a touch screen a gamepad or other type of gaming console input device or one or more sensors including but not limited to video cameras microphones and motion sensors. Such user input interface may generate an input signal that specifies settings for regionally adjustable characteristics of a screen assembly for presentation of the instances of content in the respective areas of desktop for example based on the user input.

The visual elements of desktop including 2D and or 3D aspects sizes movement brightness etc. of 2D sky area 3D grass region window content screen icons and object pop up window etc. may be configured by applications providing commands through operating systems and or OS commands generated by user interaction e.g. with user input interfaces including commands for opening and tailoring windows frame 3D 2D characteristics depth user interaction supporting 2D 3D graphic objects etc.

It is noted that the examples of A and B are provided for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting. In the examples of A and B it is assumed that display device supports the display of both two dimensional and three dimensional content. However it is noted that not all types of display device may support both two dimensional content and three dimensional content. Furthermore not all types of display device that support three dimensional content may support all types of three dimensional content. As such in embodiments OS may be configured to translate unsupported types of content to supported types of content. Still further screen regions may be rectangular in shape as shown in A and B or may have other shapes including round or rounded triangular or other polygon or any other shape. For example first ninth regions may each have the shape of a particular icon and may be three dimensional in shape surrounded by a two dimensional background. A screen region may have any other shape including the shape of an object a displayed character e.g. a person an animal an animated character etc. etc.

For example in an embodiment display drivers of OS may be configured to translate types of content that are not supported by a display device associated with the display drivers to supported types of content. shows a block diagram of display driver according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in display driver includes a first translator and a second translator . In embodiments a display driver may include one or both of first and second translators and . First translator may be present in display driver when display device associated with display driver does not support the display of three dimensional content. Second translator may be present in display driver when display device associated with display driver does not support the display of one or more types of three dimensional content.

First translator is configured to translate received 3D data to 2D data for display by a display device. For example as shown in display driver receives configuration command . Configuration command may be a command to configure a region of screen for display of three dimensional content. However display device may not support the display of three dimensional content. As such display driver may generate control signal to configure the region of screen indicated by command for two dimensional content instead of three dimensional content. Furthermore when subsequent three dimensional data is received by display driver for display in the region of screen first translator may translate three dimensional data to two dimensional data . Two dimensional data is transmitted to display device to enable the corresponding two dimensional content to be displayed in the region of screen .

Similarly second translator is configured to translate received 3D data of a first 3D content type to 3D data of a second 3D content type for display by a display device. As shown in display driver receives configuration command . Configuration command may be a command to configure a region of screen for display of two dimensional content of a first type. However display device may not support the display of three dimensional content of the particular type. As such display driver may generate control signal to configure the region of screen indicated by command for three dimensional content of a second type instead of three dimensional content of the first type. Furthermore when subsequent first type three dimensional data is received by display driver for display in the region of screen second translator may translate first type three dimensional data to second type three dimensional data . Second type three dimensional data is transmitted to display device to enable the corresponding three dimensional content to be displayed in the region of screen .

First translator may be configured in various ways to translate received 3D data to 2D data. For instance in an embodiment three dimensional data may be received as a stream of right image data and left image data. First translator may be configured to combine the right and left image data into two dimensional image data that defines a stream of two dimensional images that may be output as two dimensional data . In another embodiment first translator may be configured to select the right image data or the left image data to be output as two dimensional data while the other of the right image data or left image data is not used. In further embodiments first translator may translate received 3D data to 2D data in other ways.

Second translator may be configured in various ways to translate 3D data of a first 3D content type to 3D data of a second 3D content type. For instance second translator may translate a first 3D multiview type e.g. 3D 16 to a second 3D multiview type e.g. 3D 4 or to a single 3D view. In such an embodiment second translator may not pass extra left right image pairs from first type three dimensional data to second type three dimensional data . In further embodiments second translator may translate 3D data in other ways.

Referring back to flowchart of and flowchart of OS may pass responses from display devices back to applications in response to requests. For instance shows a flowchart providing a process for interfacing responses through an operating system according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart may be performed by OS shown in for example. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a block diagram of application interfaced with display device by OS according to an exemplary embodiment. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step a response is received from the screen regarding the control signal. For example as shown in display device generates a response . Response contains information indicating a response to the previously received control signal e.g. control signal of . For instance response may include an indication e.g. a logical 1 value or 0 value from the screen of whether a control signal was successful. Response is received by display driver .

In step the response is provided to the application. For example display driver may forward response to display driver interface as response and display driver interface may forward response to API as response . Alternatively display driver may forward response directly to API . API receives response and provides response to application as response .

Response may include any information suitable for a response by display device to a control signal generated in response to a request . For example if request included an open window command response may indicate whether the window was successfully opened and if so may include a window handle for the opened window. Furthermore response may indicate whether a move window command a close window command a move window command a resize window command a rotate window command or other command included in a request was successful.

As described above user input interface receives user input to enable persons to interact with display devices associated with device . For example via user input interface a user may be enabled to move displayed graphical objects e.g. icons windows etc. may be able to modify e.g. rotate resize etc. displayed graphical objects to interact with displayed controls etc. User input interface may provide a command line interface a GUI and or other interface with which the user can interact. In embodiments user input interface may enable users to adjust three dimensional characteristics of displayed three dimensional content. For example user input interface may enable three dimensionality of displayed content to be turned on or off e.g. to toggle between two dimensionality and three dimensionality . User input interface may enable a degree of three dimensionality of displayed content to be modified e.g. increased or decreased such as by changing a depth of three dimensionality increasing or decreasing a number of supplied camera views etc. may enable three dimensional objects to be rotated in three dimensions and or may enable further types of adjustment to three dimensional characteristics of displayed three dimensional content. Furthermore user input interface may enable other characteristics of displayed content to be modified such as modifying contrast brightness etc.

For instance shows a flowchart providing a process for interfacing a user with a display device according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a block diagram where a user may be enabled to be interfaced with display device by OS according to an exemplary embodiment. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step an input signal is received from a user input interface. For example as shown in a user may interact with user input interface to provide user input. User input interface generates an input signal based on the user input which is received by display driver interface . Display driver interface passes input signal to display driver as input signal .

In embodiments the user may interact with user input interface in various ways including using a mouse pointing device to move a displayed pointer cursor. The pointer may be used to click and drag objects to move them to resize objects to rotate objects to select controls settings to open a pop up menu etc. In other embodiments the user may interact with a keyboard a thumb wheel or other wheel a roller ball a stick pointer a touch sensitive display any number of virtual interface elements e.g. such as a keyboard or other user interface element displayed by screen a voice recognition system and or other user interface elements described elsewhere herein or otherwise known to provide user input. For instance user input interface may support a touch screen that is reactive to user finger touches to the screen to cause three dimensional characteristics of displayed objects to be modified. For instance particular motions of one or more figures against the screen may cause object resizing 3D rotation movement in 3D etc. e.g. touching two fingers to the screen and dragging them together may be interpreted as grabbing a window and moving the window in 3D .

In step a control signal is generated in response to the input signal the control signal relating to a three dimensional characteristic. For instance as shown in display driver generates a control signal based on input signal . In an embodiment control signal relates to a three dimensional characteristic. For instance control signal may relate to selecting and or modifying a three dimensional characteristic indicated by a user interacting with user input interface .

In step the control signal is delivered to cause the adjustment of the three dimensional characteristic of a three dimensional content being displayed within the region of the screen. For example as shown in display device receives control signal . Control signal causes an adjustment of the three dimensional characteristic of three dimensional content displayed in a region of screen e.g. by causing a device driver circuit to generate corresponding drive signals .

For example in step of flowchart a user may interact with one of regions and or with an object displayed within one of regions . The user may resize a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional may rotate a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional may move a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional in any of the three degrees e.g. left right up down or forward backward in from a first screen region to a second screen region may change a degree of three dimensionality of a region and or object that is displayed as three dimensional e.g. reducing or increasing a number of associated camera views etc. In step a control signal is generated to adjust the three dimensional characteristic of the three dimensional content being displayed and in step the control signal is delivered to the display screen to cause the adjustment of the three dimensional characteristic to occur.

In embodiments users may have preferences with regard to a display environment upon powering on and or logging into a device. Such preferences may include preferences with regard to display of three dimensional content. For example a user may desire for a television to power up in a two dimensional or three dimensional display mode and if a three dimensional display mode is desired the user may have particular three dimensional display preferences e.g. a preferred degree of displayed three dimensionality . In another example with regard to a computer a user may desire for the user s desktop environment to load with particular two dimensional and or three dimensional display preferences. For instance the user may desire for the desktop background to be displayed in two or three dimensions may desire icons representing various executable applications to be displayed in two dimensions and or three dimensions etc. Furthermore for each of the objects and or regions displayed in three dimensions the user may have particular three dimensional display preferences.

Embodiments enable display preferences to be set by users and to be used to configure the display environments of users upon device boot up and or user login. For instance shows a block diagram of an electronic device coupled to display device according to an exemplary embodiment. Device is an example of device of . As shown in device includes a processor a memory and storage . Device may include additional features that are not shown in for ease of illustration. Display device may be included in or may be external to device . Device may be any of the electronic devices mentioned herein as including an operating system or may be an alternative device. The features of device shown in are described as follows.

Memory may include one or more random access memory RAM devices one or more read only memory ROM devices and or other memory devices. As shown in memory stores a boot loader . Boot loader may be a relatively short program that initiates a sequence of loading operations into memory when device is first powered on. For example at power on of device boot loader may be executed by processor to begin the loading sequence. Processor may include one or more processors and or further processing logic. During the loading sequence defined by boot loader operating system is caused to be loaded from storage into memory . Once loaded into memory operating system may be executed by processor . Storage may include one or more non volatile storage devices such as a hard disk drive a CDROM compact disc ROM a DVD digital video disc a flash memory card e.g. an SD secure digital card a USB universal serial bus flash drive etc. Operating system is an example of operating system described above.

Operating system may include a graphical user interface GUI generator e.g. in user input interface used to render graphical user interfaces for users. For instance shows a block diagram of operating system according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in operating system includes a GUI generator and a boot up module . At power up GUI generator may generate a GUI environment for a user according to boot up module . For example when device is a computer GUI generator may use boot up module to determine a desired desktop environment for the user. For instance GUI generator may execute boot up module at power up. Boot up module may determine default GUI environment preferences e.g. which may be stored in users preferences as default device GUI environment preferences and may determine the user s preferences for the GUI environment e.g. a user s desktop environment and GUI generator may generate the GUI environment accordingly.

For example as shown in storage may store user preferences and user accounts . User preferences may include display preferences for one or more users including preferences with regard to three dimensional display characteristics of displayed objects and or screen regions. User accounts may be present when users have associated login accounts for logging into device . In an embodiment user accounts may be created for users and during their creation user preferences may be associated with user accounts . Furthermore subsequent to creation of a user account a user may be enabled to adjust their preferences stored in their user preferences associated with their user account. When device is powered up boot up module may access default device preferences and user preferences for the user and GUI generator may configure screen according to the accessed default and or user preferences . In an embodiment boot up module may identify the user by a user account of user accounts into which the user may login and the user account for the user may reference the preferences of the user in user preferences . User preferences for a user may indicate a desktop preference that indicates a preference for two dimensional display or three dimensional display of the user s desktop. User preferences may include further two dimensional display and or three dimensional display preferences for users such as display preferences for icons windows file folders directory structures regions screen savers desktop background etc.

Thus upon boot up GUI generator may generate a GUI environment displayed in screen for the user. GUI generator may execute boot up module to determine user preferences for the user e.g. user preferences associated with a user account of the user . Furthermore in an embodiment boot up module may be configured to determine display capabilities of screen . For instance boot up module may perform a handshake with screen on boot up to determine a three dimensional display capability of screen . GUI generator may then configure the GUI environment according to the determined capabilities of screen and the preferences of the user. For instance the user preferences of the user may include three dimensional display characteristics that are beyond the determined capabilities of screen . In such case GUI generator may use determined default display characteristics e.g. two dimensional and or three dimensional instead of the determined user preferences. Furthermore in embodiments three dimensional characteristics of screen may be selected based on other factors including selecting modifying an aspect of the display of the three dimensional content based on change in a data rate of a received three dimensional content data stream and or other factors.

Embodiments described herein for operating systems that support the display of two dimensional and three dimensional content may be implemented with respect to various types of display devices. For example as described above some display screens are configured for displaying two dimensional content although they may display two dimensional images that may be combined to form three dimensional images by special glasses worn by users. Some other types of display screens are capable of display two dimensional content and three dimensional content without the users having to wear special glasses using techniques of autostereoscopy.

As described above display devices such as display device may be implemented in various ways. For instance display device may be a television display e.g. an LCD liquid crystal display television a plasma television etc. a computer monitor or any other type of display device. Display device may include any suitable type or combination of light and image generating devices including an LCD screen a plasma screen an LED light emitting device screen e.g. an OLED organic LED screen etc. Furthermore display device may include any suitable type of light filtering device such as a parallax barrier e.g. an LCD filter a mechanical filter e.g. that incorporates individually controllable shutters etc. and or a lenticular lens and may be configured in any manner including as a thin film device e.g. formed of a stack of thin film layers etc. Furthermore display device may include any suitable light emitting device as backlighting including a panel of LEDs or other light emitting elements.

For instance shows a block diagram of a display device according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in display device includes a screen . Display device is an example of display device and screen is an example of screen described above e.g. with respect to . Device receives one or more control signals e.g. from OS that are configured to place screen in a desired display mode e.g. either a two dimensional display mode or a three dimensional display mode . As shown in screen includes a light manipulator . Light manipulator is configured to manipulate light that passes through light manipulator to enable three dimensional images to be delivered to users in a viewing space. For instance control signal s may be configured to activate or deactivate light manipulator to place screen in a three dimensional display mode or a two dimensional display mode respectively.

Examples of light manipulator include a parallax barrier and a lenticular lens. For instance light manipulator may be a parallax barrier that has a layer of material with a series of precision slits. The parallax barrier is placed proximal to a light emitting pixel array so that a user s eyes each see a different set of pixels to create a sense of depth through parallax. In another embodiment light manipulator may be a lenticular lens that includes an array of magnifying lenses configured so that when viewed from slightly different angles different images are magnified. Such a lenticular lens may be used to deliver light from a different set of pixels of a pixel array to each of the user s eyes to create a sense of depth. Embodiments are applicable display devices that include such light manipulators include other types of light manipulators and that may include multiple light manipulators.

As shown in display device receives a content signal e.g. from device of or other electronic device . Content signal includes two dimensional or three dimensional content for display by screen depending on the particular display mode. In the embodiment of light manipulator is physically fixed is not adaptable. As such when present light manipulator e.g. a fixed parallax barrier or a fixed lenticular lens always delivers three dimensional images of a particular type to a particular region in a viewing space. As such light manipulator is not adaptable to deliver other types of three dimensional images and or to deliver two and or three dimensional images to multiple different regions of a viewing space.

In contrast shows a block diagram of a display device that is adaptable according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in display device includes a screen . Display device is an example of display device and screen is an example of screen described above e.g. with respect to . Furthermore as shown in screen includes an adaptable light manipulator . Adaptable light manipulator is configured to manipulate light that passes through adaptable light manipulator to enable three dimensional images to be delivered to users in a viewing space. Furthermore adaptable light manipulator is adaptable is not physically fixed in configuration. As such adaptable light manipulator is adaptable to deliver multiple different types of three dimensional images and or to deliver three dimensional images to different moving regions of a viewing space. Furthermore in an embodiment different regions of adaptable light manipulator may be adaptable such that multiple two dimensional and or three dimensional images may be simultaneously delivered by screen to the viewing space.

Device receives one or more control signals e.g. from OS that are configured to place screen in a desired display mode e.g. either a two dimensional display mode or a three dimensional display mode and or to configure three dimensional characteristics of any number and type as described above such as configuring adaptable light manipulator to deliver different types of three dimensional images to deliver three dimensional images to different moving regions of a viewing space and to deliver two dimensional and or three dimensional images from any number of regions of screen to the viewing space.

As shown in display device receives a content signal e.g. from device of or other electronic device . Content signal includes two dimensional and or three dimensional content for display by screen depending on the particular display mode and on the number of regions of screen that are delivering different two or three dimensional views to a viewing space.

Content signals and may include video content according to any suitable format. For example content signals and may include video content delivered over an HDMI High Definition Multimedia Interface interface over a coaxial cable as composite video as S Video a VGA video graphics array interface etc.

Exemplary embodiments for display devices and of are described as follows for purposes of illustration.

Display devices and may include parallax barriers as light manipulators and respectively. For instance shows a block diagram of a display system which is an example of display device according to an embodiment. As shown in system includes a display device driver circuit an image generator and parallax barrier . As shown in image generator includes a pixel array and parallax barrier includes a barrier element array . Furthermore as shown in display driver circuit includes a pixel array driver circuit and a barrier array driver circuit . These features of system are described as follows.

Pixel array includes a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged in a grid or other distribution . Pixel array is a self illuminating or light generating pixel array such that the pixels of pixel array each emit light included in light emitted from image generator . Each pixel may be a separately addressable light source e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display such as an OLED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary color and intensity. In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Parallax barrier is positioned proximate to a surface of pixel array . Barrier element array is a layer of parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Combinations of barrier elements may be configured to be selectively opaque or transparent to enable various effects. For example in one embodiment each barrier element may have a round square or rectangular shape and barrier element array may have any number of rows of barrier elements that extend a vertical length of barrier element array . In another embodiment each barrier element may have a band shape that extends a vertical length of barrier element array such that barrier element array includes a single horizontal row of barrier elements. Each barrier element may include one or more of such bands and different regions of barrier element array may include barrier elements that include different numbers of such bands.

One advantage of such a configuration where barrier elements extend a vertical length of barrier element array is that such barrier elements do not need to have spacing between them because there is no need for drive signal routing in such space. For instance in a two dimensional LCD array configuration such as TFT thin film transistor display a transistor plus capacitor circuit is typically placed onsite at the corner of a single pixel in the array and drive signals for such transistors are routed between the LCD pixels row column control for example . In a pixel configuration for a parallax barrier local transistor control may not be necessary because barrier elements may not need to be changing as rapidly as display pixels e.g. pixels of pixel array . For a single row of vertical bands of barrier elements drive signals may be routed to the top and or bottom of barrier elements. Because in such a configuration drive signal routing between rows is not needed the vertical bands can be arranged side by side with little to no space in between. Thus if the vertical bands are thin and oriented edge to edge one band or multiple adjacent bands e.g. five bands may comprise a barrier element in a blocking state followed by one band or multiple adjacent bands e.g. two bands that comprise a barrier element in a non blocking state a slit and so on. In the example of five bands in a blocking state and two bands in a non blocking state the five bands may combine to offer a single black barrier element of approximately 2.5 times the width of a single transparent slit with no spaces therein.

It is noted that in some embodiments barrier elements may be capable of being completely transparent or opaque and in other embodiments barrier elements may not be capable of being fully transparent or opaque. For instance such barrier elements may be capable of being 95 transparent when considered to be transparent and may be capable of being 5 transparent when considered to be opaque. Transparent and opaque as used herein are intended to encompass barrier elements being substantially transparent e.g. greater than 75 transparent including completely transparent and substantially opaque e.g. less than 25 transparent including completely opaque respectively.

Display driver circuit receives control signal and content signal . As described below content signal includes two dimensional and or three dimensional content for display. Control signal may be control signal of for a non adaptable parallax barrier or may be control signal of for an adaptable parallax barrier . Control signal may be received from a display driver of an operating system e.g. may be control signal received from display driver of OS in . Display driver circuit is configured to generate drive signals based on control signal and content signal to enable display system to display two dimensional and three dimensional images to users in viewing space . For example pixel array driver circuit is configured to generate a drive signal that is received by pixel array e.g. based on content signal and or control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause pixels of pixel array to emit light of particular desired colors and or intensity. Barrier array driver circuit is configured to generate a drive signal that is received by barrier element array e.g. based on control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause each of the barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent or opaque. In this manner barrier element array filters light to generate filtered light that includes one or more two dimensional and or three dimensional images that may be viewed by users in viewing space .

For example drive signal may control sets of pixels of pixel array to each emit light representative of a respective image to provide a plurality of images. Drive signal may control barrier elements of barrier element array to filter the light received from pixel array according to the provided images such that one or more of the images are received by users in two dimensional form. For instance drive signal may select one or more sets of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to transmit one or more corresponding two dimensional images or views to users . Furthermore drive signal may control sections of barrier element array to include opaque and transparent barrier elements to filter the light received from pixel array so that one or more pairs of images or views provided by pixel array are each received by users as a corresponding three dimensional image or view. For example drive signal may select parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to form slits that enable three dimensional images to be received by users .

In embodiments drive signal may be generated by barrier array driver circuit to configure one or more characteristics of barrier element array . For example drive signal may be generated to form any number of parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to modify the number and or spacing of parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array that are transparent to select and or modify a width and or a length in barrier elements of one or more strips of barrier elements of barrier element array that are transparent or opaque to select and or modify an orientation of one or more strips of barrier elements of barrier element array that are transparent to select one or more areas of barrier element array to include all transparent or all opaque barrier elements etc.

Backlighting is a backlight panel that emits light . Light element array or backlight array of backlighting includes a two dimensional array of light sources. Such light sources may be arranged for example in a rectangular grid. Each light source in light element array is individually addressable and controllable to select an amount of light emitted thereby. A single light source may comprise one or more light emitting elements depending upon the implementation. In one embodiment each light source in light element array comprises a single light emitting diode LED although this example is not intended to be limiting. Further description of implementations of backlighting and other backlighting implementations described herein is provided in pending U.S. Patent Appl. No. 12 982 020 titled Backlighting Array Supporting Adaptable Parallax Barrier filed on same date herewith which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Parallax barrier is positioned proximate to a surface of backlighting e.g. a surface of the backlight panel . As described above barrier element array is a layer of parallax barrier that includes a plurality of barrier elements or blocking regions arranged in an array. Each barrier element of the array is configured to be selectively opaque or transparent. Barrier element array filters light received from backlighting to generate filtered light . Filtered light is configured to enable a two dimensional image or a three dimensional image e.g. formed by a pair of two dimensional images in filtered light to be formed based on images subsequently imposed on filtered light by pixel array .

Similarly to pixel array of pixel array of includes a two dimensional array of pixels e.g. arranged in a grid or other distribution . However pixel array is not self illuminating and instead is a light filter that imposes images e.g. in the form of color grayscale etc. on filtered light from parallax barrier to generate filtered light to include one or more images. Each pixel of pixel array may be a separately addressable filter e.g. a pixel of a plasma display an LCD display an LED display or of other type of display . Each pixel of pixel array may be individually controllable to vary the color imposed on the corresponding light passing through and or to vary the intensity of the passed light in filtered light . In an embodiment each pixel of pixel array may include a plurality of sub pixels that correspond to separate color channels such as a trio of red green and blue sub pixels included in each pixel.

Display driver circuit of is configured to generate drive signals based on control signal and or content signal to enable display system to display two dimensional and three dimensional images to users in viewing space . For example light source driver circuit within display driver circuit controls the amount of light emitted by each light source in light element array by generating a drive signal that is received by light element array based on content signal and or control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to control the amount of light emitted by each light source in light element array to generate light . As described above barrier array driver circuit is configured to generate drive signal received by barrier element array e.g. based on control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause each of the barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent or opaque to filter light to generate filtered light . Pixel array driver circuit is configured to generate a drive signal that is received by pixel array e.g. based on content signal and or control signal . Drive signal may include one or more drive signals used to cause pixels of pixel array to impose desired images e.g. colors grayscale etc. on filtered light as it passes through pixel array . In this manner pixel array generates filtered light that includes one or more two dimensional and or three dimensional images that may be viewed by users in viewing space .

For example drive signal may control sets of light sources of light element array to emit light . Drive signal may control barrier elements of barrier element array to filter light received from light element array to enable filtered light to enable two and or three dimensionality. Drive signal may control sets of pixels of pixel array to filter filtered light according to respective images to provide a plurality of images. For instance drive signal may select one or more sets of the barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to enable one or more corresponding two dimensional images to be delivered to users . Furthermore drive signal may control sections of barrier element array to include opaque and transparent barrier elements to filter the light received from light element array so that one or more pairs of images provided by pixel array are each enabled to be received by users as a corresponding three dimensional image. For example drive signal may select parallel strips of barrier elements of barrier element array to be transparent to form slits that enable three dimensional images to be received by users .

Flowchart begins with step . In step light is received at an array of barrier elements. For example as shown in light is received at parallax barrier from pixel array . Each pixel of pixel array may generate light that is received at parallax barrier . Depending on the particular display mode of parallax barrier parallax barrier may filter light from pixel array to generate a two dimensional image or a three dimensional image viewable in viewing space by users . As described above with respect to alternatively light may be received by parallax barrier from light element array .

In step a first set of the barrier elements of the array of barrier elements is configured in the blocking state and a second set of the barrier elements of the array of barrier elements is configured in the non blocking state to enable a viewer to be delivered a three dimensional view. Three dimensional image content may be provided for viewing in viewing space . In such case referring to or barrier array driver circuit may generate drive signal to configure barrier element array to include transparent strips of barrier elements to enable a three dimensional view to be formed. For example as shown in barrier element array includes a plurality of barrier elements that are each either transparent in a non blocking state or opaque in a blocking state . Barrier elements that are blocking are indicated as barrier elements and barrier elements that are non blocking are indicated as barrier elements . Further barrier elements may be included in barrier element array that are not visible in . Each of barrier elements and may include one or more barrier elements. Barrier elements alternate with barrier elements in series in the order of barrier elements and . In this manner blocking barrier elements are alternated with non blocking barrier elements to form a plurality of parallel non blocking or transparent slits in barrier element array .

For instance shows a view of a parallax barrier with transparent slits according to an exemplary embodiment. Parallax barrier is an example of parallax barrier of . As shown in parallax barrier includes barrier element array which includes a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. Furthermore as shown in barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a plurality of parallel non blocking strips or slits . As shown in parallel non blocking strips non blocking slits are alternated with parallel blocking or blocking strips of barrier elements that are selected to be blocking. In the example of non blocking strips and blocking strips each have a width along the x dimension of two barrier elements and have lengths that extend along the entire y dimension twenty barrier elements of barrier element array although in other embodiments may have alternative dimensions. Non blocking strips and blocking strips form a parallax barrier configuration for parallax barrier . The spacing and number of parallel non blocking strips in barrier element array may be selectable by choosing any number and combination of particular strips of barrier elements in barrier element array to be non blocking to be alternated with blocking strips as desired. For example hundreds thousands or even larger numbers of non blocking strips and blocking strips may be present in parallax barrier .

Referring back to in step the light is filtered at the array of barrier elements to form the three dimensional view in a viewing space. Barrier element array of parallax barrier is configured to filter light received from pixel array or light received from light element array according to whether barrier element array is transparent or non blocking e.g. in a two dimensional mode or includes parallel non blocking strips e.g. in a three dimensional mode . If one or more regions of barrier element array are transparent those regions of barrier element array function as all pass filters to substantially pass all of light as filtered light to deliver one or more corresponding two dimensional images generated by pixel array to viewing space to be viewable as a two dimensional images in a similar fashion as a conventional display. If barrier element array includes one or more regions having parallel non blocking strips e.g. as shown for barrier element array in those regions of barrier element array pass a portion of light as filtered light to deliver one or more corresponding three dimensional images to viewing space .

For example as shown in pixel array includes a plurality of pixels and . Pixels alternate with pixels such that pixels and are arranged in series in the order of pixels and . Further pixels may be included in pixel array that are not visible in including further pixels along the width dimension of pixel array e.g. in the left right directions as well as pixels along a length dimension of pixel array not visible in . Each of pixels and generates light which emanates from display surface of pixel array e.g. generally upward in towards barrier element array . Some example indications of light emanating from pixels and are shown in as dotted lines including light and light emanating from pixel light light and light emanating from pixel etc.

Furthermore light emanating from pixel array is filtered by barrier element array to form a plurality of images in a viewing space including a first image at a first location and a second image at a second location . A portion of the light emanating from pixel array is blocked by blocking barrier elements while another portion of the light emanating from pixel array passes through non blocking barrier elements according to the filtering by barrier element array . For instance light from pixel is blocked by blocking barrier element and light and light from pixel are blocked by blocking barrier elements and respectively. In contrast light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element and light from pixel is passed by non blocking barrier element

By forming parallel non blocking slits in a barrier element array light from a pixel array can be filtered to form multiple images or views in a viewing space. For instance system shown in is configured to form first and second images and at locations and respectively which are positioned at a distance from pixel array as shown in further instances of first and second images and may be formed in viewing space according to system in a repeating alternating fashion . As described above pixel array includes a first set of pixels and a second set of pixels . Pixels correspond to first image and pixels correspond to second image . Due to the spacing of pixels and in pixel array and the geometry of non blocking barrier elements in barrier element array first and second images and are formed at locations and respectively. As shown in light from the first set of pixels is focused at location to form first image at location . Light from the second set of pixels is focused at location to form second image at location

First and second images and are configured to be perceived by a user as a three dimensional image or view. For example a viewer may receive first image at a first eye location and second image at a second eye location according to an exemplary embodiment. First and second images and may be generated by first set of pixels and second set of pixels as images that are slightly different perspective from each other. Images and are combined in the visual center of the brain of the viewer to be perceived as a three dimensional image or view. In such an embodiment first and second images and may be formed by display system such that their centers are spaced apart a width of a user s pupils e.g. an interocular distance .

Note that in the embodiments of the entire regions of parallax barriers and are filled with parallel non blocking strips e.g. as shown for barrier element array in to be configured to deliver three dimensional images to viewing space . In further embodiments one or more regions of a parallax barrier may be filled with parallel non blocking strips to deliver three dimensional images and one or more other regions of the parallax barrier may be transparent to deliver two dimensional images. Furthermore different regions of a parallax barrier that have parallel non blocking strips may have the parallel non blocking strips oriented at different angles to deliver three dimensional images to viewers that are oriented differently.

For instance shows a view of a parallax barrier configured to enable the simultaneous display of two dimensional and three dimensional images at different regions according to exemplary embodiments. Parallax barrier is similar to parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. In a first region of barrier element array includes a plurality of parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips that together fill first region . A second region of barrier element array is surrounded by first region . Second region is a rectangular shaped region of barrier element array that includes a two dimensional array of barrier elements that are non blocking. Thus in barrier element array is configured to enable a three dimensional image to be generated by pixels of a pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements of first region and to enable a two dimensional image to be generated by pixels of the pixel array that are adjacent to barrier elements inside of second region . Note that alternatively first region may include all non blocking barrier elements to pass a two dimensional image and second region may include parallel non blocking strips alternated with parallel blocking strips to pass a three dimensional image. In further embodiments parallax barrier may have additional numbers sizes and arrangements of regions configured to pass different combinations of two dimensional images and three dimensional images.

In another example shows a view of a parallax barrier with transparent slits having different orientations according to an exemplary embodiment. Parallax barrier is similar to parallax barrier of having barrier element array including a plurality of barrier elements arranged in a two dimensional array. A first region e.g. a bottom half of barrier element array includes a first plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a first plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of two barrier elements . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of three barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a first direction e.g. along a vertical axis .

Furthermore as shown in a second region e.g. a top half of barrier element array includes a second plurality of parallel strips of barrier elements that are selected to be non blocking to form a second plurality of parallel non blocking strips each having a width of one barrier element . As shown in parallel non blocking strips are alternated with parallel blocking strips of barrier elements each having a width of two barrier elements . Parallel non blocking strips are oriented in a second direction e.g. along a horizontal axis .

As such in first and second pluralities of parallel non blocking strips and are present in barrier element array that are oriented perpendicularly to each other. The region of barrier element array that includes first plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space as described above to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented vertically e.g. sitting upright or standing up . The region of barrier element array that includes second plurality of parallel non blocking strips may be configured to deliver a three dimensional image in a viewing space as described above to be viewable by a user whose body is oriented horizontally e.g. laying down . In this manner users who are oriented differently relative to each other can still each be provided with a corresponding three dimensional image that accommodates their position.

As described above in an embodiment display device of may be configured to generate a two dimensional image for viewing by users in a viewing space. For instance referring to barrier element array may be configured into a third configuration to deliver a two dimensional view. In the third configuration barrier array driver circuit may generate drive signal to configure each barrier element of barrier element array to be in the non blocking state transparent . If barrier element array is non blocking barrier element array functions as an all pass filter to substantially pass all of light or light as filtered light to deliver the two dimensional image to viewing space to be viewable as a two dimensional image in a similar fashion as a conventional display.

In embodiments display systems may be configured to generate multiple two dimensional images or views for viewing by users in a viewing space. For example shows a display system configured to deliver two two dimensional images according to an embodiment. Display system is configured similarly to display system of . As shown in display system includes pixel array and barrier element array which generate first and second images and . As shown in a first viewer receives first image at a first location and a second viewer receives second image at a second location according to an exemplary embodiment. Similarly to the description provided above with respect to first and second images and may be generated by first set of pixels and second set of pixels of pixel array . However rather than first and second images and being images that are of different perspective first and second images and are each a two dimensional image that may be viewed independently from each other. For instance image and image may generated by display system from first media content and second media content respectively that are independent of each other. Image may be received by both eyes of first viewer to be perceived by first viewer as a first two dimensional image and image may be received by both eyes of second viewer to be perceived by second viewer as a second two dimensional image. Thus first and second images and may be generated to have a spacing that enables them to be separately viewed by first and second users and

As such display system of can be configured to deliver a single three dimensional view to a viewer e.g. as shown in for display system to deliver a pair of two dimensional views to a pair of viewers e.g. as shown in or to deliver a pair of three dimensional views to a pair of viewers as described above . Display system can be configured to switch between delivering views to one and two viewers by turning off or turning on respectively the display of media content by pixel array associated with one of the viewers e.g. by turning off or on pixels associated with second image . Display system can be configured to switch between delivering two dimensional and three dimensional views by providing the corresponding media content type at pixel array . Furthermore display system may provide such capabilities when configured similarly to display system shown in e.g. including backlighting .

In an embodiment display system may be configured to generate multiple three dimensional images that include related image content e.g. each three dimensional image is a different viewpoint of a common scene or that each include unrelated image content for viewing by users in a viewing space. Each of the three dimensional images may correspond to a pair of images generated by pixels of the pixel array. The barrier element array filters light from the pixel array to form the image pairs in a viewing space to be perceived by users as three dimensional images.

For instance shows a flowchart for generating multiple three dimensional images according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a cross sectional view of a display system . Display system is an exemplary embodiment of system shown in and is shown for purposes of illustration. As shown in system includes a pixel array and a barrier element array . System may also include display driver circuit of which is not shown in for ease of illustration. Further structural and operational embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the discussion regarding flowchart . Flowchart is described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step light is received from an array of pixels that includes a plurality of pairs of sets of pixels. For instance in the example of pixel array includes a first set of pixels a second set of pixels a third set of pixels and a fourth set of pixels . Each of pixels generates light which emanates from the surface of pixel array towards barrier element array . Each set of pixels generates a corresponding image. First set of pixels and third set of pixels are configured to generate images that combine to form a first three dimensional image. Second set of pixels and fourth set of pixels are configured to generate images that combine to form a second three dimensional image. Pixels of the four sets of pixels are alternated in pixel array in the order of pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel etc. Further pixels may be included in each set of pixels in pixel array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of pixels in each set of pixels.

As described above in the current embodiment pixel array is segmented into a plurality of pairs of sets of pixels. For instance in the example of pixel array is segmented into four sets of pixels. The first set of pixels includes pixels and the other pixels in the same columns the second set of pixels includes pixels and the other pixels in the same columns pixels and the other pixels in the same columns and pixels and the other pixels in the same columns.

In step a plurality of strips of barrier elements of a barrier element array is selected to be non blocking to form a plurality of parallel non blocking slits. As shown in barrier element array includes barrier elements that are each either non blocking or blocking. Barrier elements that are blocking are indicated as barrier elements and barrier elements that are non blocking are indicated as barrier elements . Further barrier elements may be included in barrier element array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of barrier elements etc. Each of barrier elements and may include one or more barrier elements. Barrier elements alternate with barrier elements . In this manner blocking barrier elements are alternated with non blocking barrier elements to form a plurality of parallel non blocking slits in barrier element array .

In step the light is filtered at the barrier element array to form a plurality of pairs of images in a viewing space corresponding to the plurality of pairs of sets of pixels each pair of images of the plurality of pairs of images being configured to be perceived as a corresponding three dimensional image of a plurality of three dimensional images. As shown in light emanating from pixel array is filtered by barrier element array to form a plurality of images in a viewing space . For instance four images are formed in viewing space including first fourth images . Pixels correspond to first image pixels correspond to second image pixels correspond to third image and pixels correspond to fourth image . As shown in light from the first set of pixels forms first image and light from the third set of pixels forms third image due to the filtering of the non blocking slits corresponding to non blocking barrier elements in barrier element array . Although not indicated in for ease of illustration in a similar fashion light from the second set of pixels forms second image and light from the fourth set of pixels forms fourth image

In the embodiment of any pair of images of images may be configured to be perceived as a three dimensional image by a user in viewing space . For instance first and third images and may be configured to be perceived by a user as a first three dimensional image such that first image is received at a first eye location and third image is received at a second eye location of a user. Furthermore second and fourth images and may be configured to be perceived by a user as a second three dimensional image such that second image is received at a first eye location and fourth image is received at a second eye location of a user.

In the example of two three dimensional images are provided by system . In further embodiments further numbers of three dimensional images may be provided including a third three dimensional image a fourth three dimensional image etc. In such case each three dimensional image is generated by filtering light using a barrier element array corresponding to an image pair generated by a corresponding pair of sets of pixels of the pixel array in a similar fashion as described with respect to for two three dimensional images. For example to provide three three dimensional images pixel array may include fifth and sixth sets of pixels that generate fifth and sixth images respectively to be perceived by a user as a third three dimensional image. To provide a fourth three dimensional image pixel array may include seventh and eighth sets of pixels that generate seventh and eighth images respectively to be perceived by a user as the fourth three dimensional image.

In the first and second three dimensional images generated based on first and third images and and second and fourth images and respectively and any further three dimensional images that may be generated may include related image content or may each include unrelated image content. For example in an embodiment the first and second three dimensional images and any further three dimensional images may have been captured as different viewpoints of a common scene. Thus a user in viewing space that moves laterally to sequentially view the first and second three dimensional images and any further three dimensional images may perceive being able to partially or fully view behind objects of the common scene.

Further description regarding using a parallax barrier to deliver three dimensional views including adaptable versions of parallax barriers is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 409 titled Display With Adaptable Parallax Barrier in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 440 titled Adaptable Parallax Barrier Supporting Mixed 2D And Stereoscopic 3D Display Regions and in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 845 461 titled Display Supporting Multiple Simultaneous 3D Views which are each incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

In embodiments as described herein display devices and of may include one or more lenticular lenses as light manipulators and used to deliver three dimensional images and or two dimensional images. For instance display systems and of may each include a sub lens array of a lenticular lens in place of parallax barrier . For example shows a perspective view of a lenticular lens in accordance with an embodiment. As shown in lenticular lens includes a sub lens array . Sub lens array includes a plurality of sub lenses arranged in a two dimensional array e.g. arranged side by side in a row . Each sub lens is shown in as generally cylindrical in shape and having a substantially semi circular cross section but in other embodiments may have other shapes. In sub lens array is shown to include eight sub lenses for illustrative purposes and is not intended to be limiting. For instance sub lens array may include any number e.g. hundreds thousands etc. of sub lenses . shows a side view of lenticular lens oriented as lenticular lens may be positioned in system of in place of parallax barrier for lenticular lens to deliver three dimensional views. In light may be passed through lenticular lens in the direction of dotted arrow to be diverted.

In one embodiment lenticular lens may be fixed in size. For example light manipulator of may include lenticular lens when fixed in size. In another embodiment lenticular lens may be adaptable. For instance light manipulator of may include lenticular lens when adaptable. For instance in an embodiment lenticular lens may be made from an elastic material. Such a lenticular lens may be adapted in size in response to generated drive signals.

Further description regarding using a lenticular lens to deliver three dimensional views including adaptable versions of lenticular lenses is provided in pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 774 307 titled Display with Elastic Light Manipulator which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Display devices and may include multiple layers of light manipulators in embodiments. Multiple three dimensional images may be displayed in a viewing space using multiple light manipulator layers according to embodiments. In embodiments the multiple light manipulating layers may enable spatial separation of the images. For instance in such an embodiment for example a display device that includes multiple light manipulator layers may be configured to display a first three dimensional image in a first region of a viewing space e.g. a left side area a second three dimensional image in a second region of the viewing space e.g. a central area a third three dimensional image in a third region of the viewing space e.g. a right side area etc. In embodiments a display device may be configured to display any number of spatially separated three dimensional images as desired for a particular application e.g. according to a number and spacing of viewers in the viewing space etc. .

For instance shows a flowchart for generating multiple three dimensional images using multiple light manipulator layers according to an exemplary embodiment. Flowchart is described with respect to which shows a cross sectional view of a display system that includes multiple light manipulator layers according to an exemplary embodiment. As shown in system includes a display driver circuit an image generator a first light manipulator and a second light manipulator . As shown in image generator includes pixel array first light manipulator includes first light manipulator elements and second light manipulator includes second light manipulator elements . Furthermore as shown in display driver circuit includes a pixel array driver circuit and a light manipulator driver circuit . Flowchart and system are described as follows.

Flowchart begins with step . In step light is received from an array of pixels that includes a plurality of pairs of sets of pixels. For example as shown in light is received at first light manipulator from pixel array of image generator . Pixel array driver circuit may generate driver signals based on content signal received by display driver circuit and the driver signals may be received by pixel array to generate light . Each pixel of pixel array may generate light that is received at first light manipulator . In an embodiment pixel array driver circuit may generate drive signal to cause pixel array to emit light containing a plurality of images corresponding to the sets of pixels.

In step the light from the array of pixels is manipulated with a first light manipulator. For example first light manipulator may be configured to manipulate light received from pixel array . As shown in first light manipulator includes light manipulator elements configured to perform manipulating e.g. filtering diverting etc. of light to generate manipulated light . Light manipulator elements may optionally be configurable to adjust the manipulating performed by first light manipulator . First light manipulator may perform filtering in a similar manner as a parallax barrier described above or in other manner. In another embodiment first light manipulator may include a lenticular lens that diverts light to perform light manipulating generating manipulated light . In an embodiment light manipulator driver circuit may generate drive signal based on control signal received by display driver to cause light manipulator elements to manipulate light as desired.

In step the light manipulated by the first light manipulator is manipulated with a second light manipulator to form a plurality of pairs of images corresponding to the plurality of pairs of sets of pixels in a viewing space. For example as shown in manipulated light is received by second light manipulator to generate manipulated light that includes a plurality of three dimensional images formed in viewing space . As shown in second light manipulator includes light manipulator elements configured to perform manipulating of manipulated light to generate manipulated light . Light manipulator elements may optionally be configurable to adjust the manipulating performed by second light manipulator . In an embodiment light manipulator driver circuit may generate drive signal based on control signal to cause light manipulator elements to manipulate manipulated light to generate manipulated light including three dimensional images as desired. In embodiments second light manipulator may include a parallax barrier or a lenticular lens configured to manipulate manipulated light to generate manipulated light .

As such display system has a single viewing plane or surface e.g. a plane or surface of pixel array first light manipulator second light manipulator that supports multiple viewers with media content in the form of three dimensional images or views. The single viewing plane of display system may provide a first three dimensional view based on first three dimensional media content to a first viewer a second three dimensional view based on second three dimensional media content to a second viewer and optionally further three dimensional views based on further three dimensional media content to further viewers. First and second light manipulators and each cause three dimensional media content to be presented to a corresponding viewer via a corresponding area of the single viewing plane with each viewer being enabled to view corresponding media content without viewing media content directed to other viewers. Furthermore the areas of the single viewing plane that provide the various three dimensional views of media content overlap each other at least in part. In the embodiment of the areas may be the same area an area of a display screen or surface of display system . As such multiple three dimensional views that are each viewable by a corresponding viewer may be delivered by a single display viewing plane.

Display system may be configured in various ways to generate multiple three dimensional images according to flowchart in embodiments. Furthermore as described below embodiments of display system may be configured to generate two dimensional views as well as any combination of one or more two dimensional views simultaneously with one or more three dimensional views.

For instance in an embodiment delivery of three dimensional images may be performed in system using multiple parallax barriers. shows a cross sectional view of a display system according to an exemplary embodiment. Display system is an example of system shown in . As shown in system includes a pixel array a first barrier element array and a second barrier element array . System may also include display driver circuit of which is not shown in for ease of illustration. System is described as follows.

As shown in the example of pixel array includes a first set of pixels a second set of pixels a third set of pixels and a fourth set of pixels . Pixels of the four sets of pixels are alternated in pixel array in the order of pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel pixel etc. Further pixels may be included in each set of pixels in pixel array that are not visible in including hundreds thousands or millions of pixels in each set of pixels.

Each of pixels and is configured to generate light which emanates from the surface of pixel array towards first barrier element array . Each set of pixels is configured to generate a corresponding image. For example shows display system where pixels of pixel array emit light. Light from second set of pixels and first set of pixels is configured to generate third and fourth images and respectively which may be perceived together as a second three dimensional image by a second viewer . Light from fourth set of pixels and third set of pixels is configured to generate first and second images and respectively which may be perceived together as a first three dimensional image by a first viewer . The light emitted by the sets of pixels is filtered by first and second barrier element arrays and to generate the first and second three dimensional images in respective desired regions of a user space adjacent to display system .

First fourth images may be formed in viewing space at a distance from pixel array and at a lateral location of viewing space as determined by a configuration of display system of including a width and spacing of non blocking slits in first barrier element array by a width and positioning of non blocking slits in second barrier element array by a spacing between pixel array and first barrier element array and a spacing between first and second barrier element arrays and .

In an embodiment system of may be configured similarly to display system of to deliver three dimensional images and or two dimensional images. For instance in embodiments system may include backlighting and pixel array separated by one or both of first and second light manipulators and . For example shows a block diagram of a display system which is an example of display devices and shown in according to an embodiment. Display system is configured to display multiple three dimensional images in a viewing space in a spatially separated manner. As shown in system includes display driver circuit backlighting first light manipulator second light manipulator and pixel array . As shown in backlighting optionally includes light element array first light manipulator includes first light manipulator elements and second light manipulator includes second light manipulator elements . Furthermore as shown in display driver circuit receives control signal and content signal and includes light source driver circuit light manipulator driver circuit and pixel array driver circuit . Light source driver circuit light manipulator driver circuit and pixel array driver circuit may generate drives signals to perform their respective functions based on control signal and or content signal . As shown in first and second light manipulators and are positioned between backlighting and pixel array . In another embodiment pixel array may instead be located between first and second light manipulators and

As shown in display driver circuit receives content signal and as shown in display driver circuit receives content signal . Content signal is an example of content signals and of . Content signal includes two dimensional and or three dimensional content for display by the respective display devices systems. For instance display driver circuits and generate respective drive signals e.g. pixel array drive signals based on content signal to enable the content carried by content signal to be displayed.

As described above light manipulators may be reconfigured to change the locations of delivered views based on changing viewer positions. As such a position of a viewer may be determined tracked so that a parallax barrier and or light manipulator may be reconfigured to deliver views consistent with the changing position of the viewer. For instance with regard to a parallax barrier a spacing number arrangement and or other characteristic of slits may be adapted according to the changing viewer position. With regard to a lenticular lens a size of the lenticular lens may be adapted e.g. stretched compressed according to the changing viewer position. In embodiments a position of a viewer may be determined tracked by determining a position of the viewer directly or by determining a position of a device associated with the viewer e.g. a device worn by the viewer held by the viewer sitting in the viewer s lap in the viewer s pocket sitting next the viewer etc. .

Examples of display environments for display embodiments described herein include environments having a single viewer as well as environments having multiple viewers. For example in one type of environment e.g. an office living room etc. a single viewer interacts with an electronic device mobile or stationary to view and or interact with mixed 2D and 3D content such as a mobile or desktop computer smart phone television or other mobile or stationary device. It is noted that this type of environment may include more than one viewer. In another type of environment e.g. a living room a home theatre room etc. multiple viewers are enabled to interact with an electronic device such as a television set e.g. high def small screen large screen etc. to view and or interact with mixed 2D and 3D content in the form of television content movies video games etc.

For instance shows a block diagram of a display environment according to an exemplary embodiment. In the example of first and second viewers and are present in display environment and are enabled to interact with a display device to be delivered two dimensional and or three dimensional media content. Although two viewers are shown present in in other embodiments other numbers of viewers may be present in display environment that may interact with display device and may be delivered media content by display device . As shown in display environment includes display device a first remote control a second remote control a first headset a second headset and viewers and . Display device is an example of the display devices described above and may be configured similarly to any display device described herein including display device . Viewer is delivered a view by display device and viewer is delivered a view by display device . Views and may each be a two dimensional view or a three dimensional view. Furthermore in embodiments view may be delivered to viewer but not be visible by viewer and view may be delivered to viewer but not be visible by viewer

Remote control is a device that viewer may use to interact with display device and remote control is a device that viewer may use to interact with display device . For example as shown in viewer may interact with a user interface of remote control to generate a display control signal and viewer may interact with a user interface of remote control to generate a display control signal . Display control signals and may be transmitted to display device using wireless or wired communication links. Display control signals and may be configured to select particular content desired to be viewed by viewers and respectively. For example display control signals and may select particular media content to be viewed e.g. television channels video games DVD digital video discs content video tape content web content etc. . Display control signals and may select whether such media content is desired to be viewed in two dimensional or three dimensional form by viewers and respectively. Remote controls and may be television remote control devices game controllers smart phones or other remote control type device.

Headsets and are worn by viewers and respectively. Headsets and each include one or two speakers e.g. earphones that enable viewers and to hear audio associated with the media content of views and . Headsets and enable viewers and to hear audio of their respective media content without hearing audio associated the media content of the other of viewers and . Headsets and may each optionally include a microphone to enable viewers and to interact with display device using voice commands.

Display device headset and or remote control may operate to provide position information regarding viewers to display device and display device headset and or remote control may operate to provide position information regarding viewers to display device . Display device may use position information and to reconfigure one or more light manipulators e.g. parallax barriers and or lenticular lenses of display device to enable views and to be delivered to viewers and respectively at various locations. For example display device headset and or remote control may use positioning techniques to track the position of viewer and display device headset and or remote control may use positioning techniques to track the position of viewer

Embodiments may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example application s operating system operating system user input interface API kernel display driver interface display driver s application display driver first translator second translator boot loader operating system GUI generator and or boot up module may be implemented as computer program code configured to be executed in one or more processors.

For instance shows a block diagram of an example implementation of electronic device according to an embodiment. In embodiments electronic device may include one or more of the elements shown in . As shown in the example of electronic device may include one or more processors also called central processing units or CPUs such as a processor . Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure such as a communication bus. In some embodiments processor can simultaneously operate multiple computing threads.

Electronic device also includes a primary or main memory such as random access memory RAM . Main memory has stored therein control logic A computer software and data.

Electronic device also includes one or more secondary storage devices . Secondary storage devices include for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage device or drive as well as other types of storage devices such as memory cards and memory sticks. For instance electronic device may include an industry standard interface such a universal serial bus USB interface for interfacing with devices such as a memory stick. Removable storage drive represents a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive an optical storage device tape backup etc.

As shown in secondary storage devices may include an operating system . Embodiments for operating system are described in detail above.

Removable storage drive interacts with a removable storage unit . Removable storage unit includes a computer useable or readable storage medium having stored therein computer software B control logic and or data. Removable storage unit represents a floppy disk magnetic tape compact disk DVD optical storage disk or any other computer data storage device. Removable storage drive reads from and or writes to removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Electronic device further includes a communication or network interface . Communication interface enables the electronic device to communicate with remote devices. For example communication interface allows electronic device to communicate over communication networks or mediums representing a form of a computer useable or readable medium such as LANs WANs the Internet etc. Network interface may interface with remote sites or networks via wired or wireless connections.

Any apparatus or manufacture comprising a computer useable or readable medium having control logic software stored therein is referred to herein as a computer program product or program storage device. This includes but is not limited to electronic device main memory secondary storage devices and removable storage unit . Such computer program products having control logic stored therein that when executed by one or more data processing devices cause such data processing devices to operate as described herein represent embodiments of the invention.

Devices in which embodiments may be implemented may include storage such as storage drives memory devices and further types of computer readable media. Examples of such computer readable storage media include a hard disk a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk flash memory cards digital video disks random access memories RAMs read only memories ROM and the like. As used herein the terms computer program medium and computer readable medium are used to generally refer to the hard disk associated with a hard disk drive a removable magnetic disk a removable optical disk e.g. CDROMs DVDs etc. zip disks tapes magnetic storage devices MEMS micro electromechanical systems storage nanotechnology based storage devices as well as other media such as flash memory cards digital video discs RAM devices ROM devices and the like. Such computer readable storage media may store program modules that include computer program logic for application s operating system operating system user input interface API kernel display driver interface display driver s application display driver first translator second translator boot loader operating system GUI generator boot up module flowchart flowchart flowchart flowchart including any one or more steps of flowcharts and and or further embodiments of the present invention described herein. Embodiments of the invention are directed to computer program products comprising such logic e.g. in the form of program code or software stored on any computer useable medium. Such program code when executed in one or more processors causes a device to operate as described herein.

The invention can work with software hardware and or operating system implementations other than those described herein. Any software hardware and operating system implementations suitable for performing the functions described herein can be used.

As described herein electronic device may be implemented in association with a variety of types of display devices. For instance electronic device may be one of a variety of types of media devices such as a stand alone display e.g. a television display such as flat panel display etc. a computer a game console a set top box a digital video recorder DVR other electronic device mentioned elsewhere herein etc. Media content that is delivered in two dimensional or three dimensional form according to embodiments described herein may be stored locally or received from remote locations. For instance such media content may be locally stored for playback replay TV DVR may be stored in removable memory e.g. DVDs memory sticks etc. may be received on wireless and or wired pathways through a network such as a home network through Internet download streaming through a cable network a satellite network and or a fiber network etc. For instance shows a first media content A that is stored in hard disk drive a second media content B that is stored in storage medium of removable storage unit and a third media content C that may be remotely stored and received over communication medium by communication interface . Media content may be stored and or received in these manners and or in other ways.

Media input interfaces includes one or more media input interfaces wired or wireless for received media such as those described elsewhere herein. For instance media input interface may include an interface for receiving media content from a local media player device such as a DVD player a memory stick a computer media player etc. and may include commercially available e.g. USB HDMI etc. or proprietary interfaces for receiving local media content. Media input interface may include an interface for receiving media content from a remote source such as the Internet satellite cable etc. and may include commercially available e.g. WLAN Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS etc. or proprietary interfaces for receiving remote media content.

Host processing circuitry may include one or more integrated circuit chips and or additional circuitry which may be configured to execute software firmware including operating system and application programs . Operating system is an example of OS described herein. User input interfaces is an example of user input interfaces of . 2D 3Dx and mixed display driver interface is an example of 2D 3Dx and mixed display driver interface of . Shell operations is an example of shell operations of . 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx and mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services is an example of 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx and mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services of . API supporting regional 2D 3Dx is an example of API supporting regional 2D 3Dx of . 2D only driver variant is an example of 2D only driver variant 3Dx only driver variant is an example of 3Dx only driver variant and mixed 2D and 3Dx driver variant is an example of mixed 2D and 3Dx driver variant of .

User input devices includes one or more user input devices that a user may use to interact with display system . Examples of user input devices are described elsewhere herein such as a keyboard a mouse pointer etc.

Display processing circuitry may be included in host processing circuitry or may be separate from host processing circuitry as shown in . For instance display processing circuitry may include one or more processors e.g. graphics processors further circuitry and or other hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. Display processing circuitry may be present to perform graphics processing tasks. For instance as shown in display processing circuitry may optionally include 2D 3Dx mixed 2D and 3Dx and mixed 3Dx and 3Dy translation services to perform 2D 3D related translation services in addition or alternatively to translation services .

Adaptable display driver circuitry includes one or more display driver circuits for an adaptable display. Examples of adaptable display driver circuitry are described above such as with regard to and .

Adaptable 2D 3Dx and mixed display includes a display that is adaptable and is capable of displaying 2D content 3D content and a mixture of 2D and or 3D content. Examples of adaptable 2D 3Dx and mixed display are described elsewhere herein.

First third interface circuitry is optional. For instance as shown in a communication infrastructure e.g. a signal bus may be present to couple signals of media input interfaces host processing circuitry user input devices display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and display . In an embodiment if display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and or display are contained in a common housing structure with host processing circuitry e.g. in a handheld device etc. interface circuitry may not be needed to be present. If display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and or display are in a separate housing structure from host processing circuitry corresponding interface circuitry may be present to provide an interface. For instance host processing circuitry may be in a game console a desktop computer tower a home audio receiver a set top box etc. and display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and or display may be included in a display device structure. In such case interface circuitry may not be present. When present first third circuitry may each include circuitry such as receivers and or transmitters wired or wireless for enabling communications between the respective one of display processing circuitry adaptable display driver circuitry and display and the other components of system e.g. host processing circuitry etc. .

Note that the embodiment of display system shown in is provided for purposes of illustration and is not intended to be limiting. In further embodiments display system may include fewer additional and or alternative features than shown in .

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and detail can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

