---

title: Rule based, proactive web browsing
abstract: Method and apparatus for rule-based, proactive web browsing are provided. A set of rules is determined and stored in computer data storage, where each rule in the set of rules is a proactive browsing rule that indicates a web page. The occurrence of an event represented by event information is detected. In response to detecting the occurrence of the event, the set of rules is evaluated based on the event information to determine whether any rules are satisfied. While a web browser is in use, a determination is made that a particular rule is satisfied. In response to determining that the particular rule is satisfied, the web browser is automatically redirected to directly access a particular web page that is indicated in the particular rule.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744990&OS=08744990&RS=08744990
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08744990
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100709
---
Web browsing by nature is a very reactive process in which a software application e.g. such as a web browser navigates among web pages in response to user input such as for example a web address typed by a user or a mouse click on the currently displayed page. This reactive nature of the web browsing process however tends to diminish the quality of the user experience in certain circumstances.

For example there are many users who have signed up for Fantasy Football leagues on Yahoo sports. On a Sunday morning a typical user would want to check his or her team roster before the games start. Under the current reactive browsing process the user needs either to type into the browser the web address of the roster page for his or her Fantasy Football team or to surf the yahoo.com web site in order to reach that roster page. For example after logging into the yahoo.com web site the user needs to click on a link to get to the sports web page then click on a link thereon to get to the fantasy football league page then click on a link thereon to get to the user s team page and then click on a link therein to get to the page of the team s roster. However each of these two cases of reactive browsing has its own disadvantages that diminish the quality of the user experience.

In the former case while it may be possible for the user to type into the browser the Uniform Resource Locator URL address of the web page that the user wants to visit such URL address is typically long and complicated and hence difficult to remember especially when the URL address requires parameter values needed to locate or to dynamically generate the desired web page. In the latter case the user needs to click through several intervening web pages which in addition to taking extra time and being rather annoying to the user involves retrieval of unnecessary information because the content of the intervening pages needs to be retrieved and loaded by the browser even though such content is not of interest to the user at that particular time.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Techniques for proactive web browsing are described herein. In an example embodiment one or more proactive browsing rules are determined and stored. As used herein proactive browsing rule or just rule refers to a set of data that specifies one or more conditions and at least one browsing related action that is to be performed without receiving any additional user input when the one or more conditions are satisfied. For example in a proactive browsing rule an action may be associated with a web page where the action is such that when performed it causes a web browser to directly access the web page without accessing one or more intervening web pages that would otherwise need to be accessed in order to reach that web page. In response to detecting the occurrence of an event the conditions specified in the one or more proactive browsing rules are evaluated based on event information that represents the detected event. When the evaluation determines that the one or more conditions of a particular rule are satisfied the action specified in the particular rule is automatically performed for example by automatically redirecting a web browser to access the particular web page that is indicated in the particular rule.

In this manner the techniques described herein utilize proactive browsing rules that reflect the likely intent of a user to access certain web pages in certain contexts and or circumstances. In response to an event that occurs in a given context or circumstance one or more proactive browsing rules are evaluated to determine whether in the given context or circumstance the user intends to access some specific web page and if so the user is automatically redirected to access that specific web page. Thus for contexts and circumstances reflected in the proactive browsing rules the techniques described herein change the browsing experience of a user from being reactive e.g. responsive to user input to being proactive by determining what web page the user intends to access and facilitating direct access to that web page without receiving any additional input from the user.

It is noted that when describing web browsing it is convenient to refer to a user accessing a web page even though the actual operations to access the web page are performed by a web browser or a similar application. For example stating that a user accesses a web page is just a convenient way of stating that a web browser which is executing on a computing device used by a user accesses a web page. Thus in the present disclosure any references to a user visiting reaching navigating to or otherwise accessing a web page are just convenient ways of stating that such browsing operations are performed by a web browser or a similar application that is running on a computing device under the user s control.

In step a web server or a component thereof determines a set of proactive browsing rules. Each rule in the set indicates a web page that is to be accessed directly by a web browser without accessing one or more intervening web pages that would otherwise need to be accessed in order to reach the web page.

A web page or just page is an online document accessible by a web browser or a similar application that is typically identified by a Uniform Resource Identifier URI e.g. such as an URL . A web page may be a set of static or dynamically generated data including but not limited to an image a Portable Document Format PDF document a set of binary data and a markup language document. Examples of markup language documents include but are not limited to HyperText Markup Language HTML files eXtensible Markup Language XML files and any static dynamically generated and or stream data that conforms to HTML XML or to any other markup languages that are derivatives of the Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML .

In step the web server or a component thereof stores the set of proactive browsing rules in computer data storage. Computer data storage refers to one or more data structures that are configured to store data in one or more storage media. Examples of such data structures include but are not limited to records tables arrays queues lists files and any other formatted or unformatted data objects that can be stored on one or more storage media.

In step the web server or a component thereof detects the occurrence of an event that is represented by event information. In the context of the techniques described herein detecting the occurrence of an event refers to receiving determining discovering identifying or otherwise recognizing an event and or the event information that represents the event. As used herein event refers to data that is generated responsive to and indicates the completion or occurrence of a particular activity or action and event information refers to a set of data that represents and identifies an event. The event information may comprise data values that are configured in any suitable format including but not limited to a message a request or any similar communication a data object a data record and any other formatted data entity. The activity causing an event may be performed in a computing device by executing one or more computer implemented operations where the one or more operations may be initiated by the computing device or components thereof and or by another computing device. Some examples of event causing activities include but are not limited to receiving a message or output from an operation performed by a local computer system receiving a message or other communication from a remote computer system and receiving or detecting datetime information which indicates a particular day and or time. It is noted that the examples of events and event activities provided herein are to be considered in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In response to detecting the occurrence of the event in step the web server or a component thereof evaluates the set of proactive browsing rules to determine whether any rules in the set of rules are satisfied. For example the web server or the component thereof evaluates one or more conditions associated with each rule based on the event information that represents the detected event.

In step the web server or a component thereof determines that a particular rule in the set of proactive browsing rules is satisfied. For example the web server may determine that one or more data values included in the event information match or otherwise satisfy the one or more conditions defined in the particular rule.

In response to determining that the particular rule is satisfied in step the web server or a component thereof automatically redirects a web browser to access a particular web page that is indicated in the particular rule. In the context of the techniques for proactive web browsing described herein automatically redirecting a web browser to access a web page means causing the web browser to access the web page without receiving from the user that is using the web browser any additional and or interactive input that directly or indirectly identifies the web page.

In some embodiments as part of automatically redirecting the web browser to access a particular web page the techniques described herein provide for causing the web browser to pop up a dialog e.g. a window page or other dialog box that notifies the user why the redirection is occurring and allows the user to cancel the redirection. If within a certain time limit e.g. a few seconds the user does not provide input that cancels the redirection e.g. the user does not click on a Cancel button in the pop up the web browser is automatically redirected to access and retrieve the particular web page. In this manner these embodiments provide for notifying the user about why the redirection is occurring and where the redirection is going for example by displaying in the pop up the name or ID of the rule that causes the redirection and the URL or other ID of the particular web page to which the web browser is to be redirected. Further these embodiments also allow the user to cancel the redirection if the user so wishes. It is noted however that in these embodiments the redirection of the web browser to the particular web page is still automatic because additional user input that identifies the particular web page is not necessary in other words the redirection is facilitated based on the information in the proactive browsing rule that identifies the particular web page and not on any additional information that is provided by the user e.g. such as a URL typed by the user in the pop up dialog or a mouse click on a hypertext link to the particular web page .

In general a server is a set of software and or hardware instructions which when executed by one or more computing devices are allocated computational resources such as memory CPU time and or disk storage space in order to perform one or more functionalities. A web server is configured to process and service requests for web pages from various web clients e.g. such as web browsers over one or more protocols such as the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP the File Transfer Protocol FTP and various other application presentation session and transport layer protocols.

Referring to computing device s includes computer data storage and is configured to execute web server . Web server is configured to service requests from web clients to one or more web sites e.g. such as web portals that include web pages. Among components not shown in for performing the various web server functionalities web server includes rule generation logic event detection logic rule evaluation logic and automatic redirection logic .

As used herein logic refers to a set of instructions which when executed by one or more processors are operable to perform one or more functionalities. In various embodiments and implementations any such logic may be implemented as one or more software components that are executable by one or more processors or as any combination of one or more software and hardware components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs . For example any particular logic may be implemented without limitation as a standalone or client server software application as one or more software modules as one or more libraries of functions as one or more dynamically linked libraries as one or more active X controls and as one or more browser plug ins.

Referring to in various embodiments the functionalities of rule generation logic event detection logic rule evaluation logic and automatic redirection logic may be implemented as separate web server modules in the same integrated module of the web server or may be combined in two or more web server modules that provide some additional functionalities.

Rule generation logic is configured to determine the set of proactive browsing rules in accordance with the techniques described herein and to store proactive browsing rules in data storage . For example in some embodiments rule generation logic may be configured to generate proactive browsing rules in response to user input that defines the conditions and actions for each rule. In some embodiments rule generation logic may be configured to determine proactive browsing rules by drawing inferences from the user browsing history and or by executing machine learning algorithms to deduce at least some of the proactive browsing rules . It is noted that several techniques for determining proactive browsing rules are described in more details in a separate section hereinafter in general however rule generation logic may be configured to determine or learn proactive browsing rules by using any suitable mechanism and information.

Event detection logic is configured to detect the occurrence of events by receiving determining discovering identifying or otherwise recognizing an event and or the event information that represents the event. In operation event detection logic may detect an event from an activity action or operation that is performed by a process or application executing locally on computing device s or by a process or application on a remote computing device. In response to detecting the event event detection logic conveys the event information representing the detected event to rule evaluation logic by using a communication mechanism such as for example messaging shared memory or any other suitable inter process communication mechanism.

Rule evaluation logic is configured to evaluate proactive browsing rules in accordance with the techniques described herein. In response to receiving or being notified about the event information of a detected event rule evaluation logic retrieves one or more of the proactive browsing rules from data storage or from a cache in volatile memory if such cache is available . Rule evaluation logic then evaluates the retrieved proactive browsing rules to determine whether the conditions defined in the retrieved rules are satisfied by the data values stored in the event information. When rule evaluation logic determines that a particular rule is satisfied the rule evaluation logic notifies automatic redirection logic accordingly. For example rule evaluation logic may convey the rule ID and or the web page identified in the particular rule to automatic redirection logic by using a communication mechanism such as for example messaging shared memory or any other suitable inter process communication mechanism.

Automatic redirection logic is configured to automatically redirect to a particular web page a web browser that is connected to web server to receive web pages. For example in response to being notified that a particular rule is satisfied automatic generation logic causes the web browser to access the web page identified in the particular rule.

In some embodiments automatic generation logic may cause such browser redirection by generating and sending to the web browser a script e.g. such as JavaScript VBScript etc. . When executed by the web browser the script causes the web browser to access the web page specified therein for example by invoking a browser function or routine that instructs the web browser to retrieve the specified web page.

In some embodiments automatic redirection logic may cause browser redirection by generating and sending to the web browser an HTTP response message with a redirect header that includes a status code beginning with 3 which causes the web browser to go to the web page identified in the Location field of the redirect header. For example an HTTP response message with the following header 

In some embodiments in response to receiving an HTTP response message with a redirect header the web browser may display a pop up dialog to notify the user why the redirection is occurring and where the redirection is going and to allow the user to cancel the redirection if he or she so wishes. If within a certain time limit e.g. a few seconds the user does not provide input that cancels the redirection e.g. the user does not click on a Cancel button in the pop up and without receiving any additional input from the user the web browser automatically accesses the particular web page that is identified in the Location field of the redirect header in the received HTTP response message.

In computing device includes computer data storage and is configured to execute web browser . Web browser is configured to access web pages local files and other data resources on behalf of a user that uses the web browser. Among components not shown in for performing the various web browser functionalities web browser includes rule generation logic event detection logic rule evaluation logic and automatic redirection logic . In the embodiment illustrated in rule generation logic event detection logic rule evaluation logic and automatic redirection logic are included in plug in module that is installed and configured for web browser . However it is noted that in various embodiments the functionalities of rule generation logic event detection logic rule evaluation logic and automatic redirection logic may be implemented as a browser toolbar as separate built in web browser modules in the same integrated module of the web browser or may be combined in two or more web browser modules that provide some additional functionalities. Thus the use of plug in module in the embodiment of is to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

Rule generation logic is configured to determine the set of proactive browsing rules in accordance with the techniques described herein and to store proactive browsing rules in data storage . For example in some embodiments rule generation logic may be configured to generate proactive browsing rules in response to user input that is received through a Graphical User Interface GUI and that defines the conditions and actions for each rule. In some embodiments rule generation logic may be configured to determine proactive browsing rules by drawing inferences from the browsing history of one or more users that use web browser and or by executing machine learning algorithms to deduce at least some of the proactive browsing rules . It is noted that several techniques for determining proactive browsing rules are described in more details in a separate section hereinafter. In some embodiments rule generation logic may determine and store proactive browsing rules on a per user basis for example rule generation logic may determine a separate set of rules for each individual user that uses web browser and may store these rules as part of the user preference settings that are stored in the user s profile maintained by the web browser.

Event detection logic is configured to detect the occurrence of events by receiving determining discovering identifying or otherwise recognizing an event and or the event information that represents the event. In operation event detection logic may detect an event from an activity action or operation that is performed by a process or application executing locally on computing device or by a process or application on a remote computing device. For example event detection logic may periodically check the time clock on computing device to determine whether it is a particular time of the day e.g. 2 00 pm which may be a time based event that can trigger one or more proactive browsing rules. In another example event detection logic may receive a notification from an external e mail service that an e mail for the user of web browser has been received. In response to detecting the event event detection logic conveys the event information representing the detected event to rule evaluation logic by using a suitable communication mechanism.

Rule evaluation logic is configured to evaluate proactive browsing rules in accordance with the techniques described herein. In response to receiving or being notified about the event information of a detected event rule evaluation logic retrieves one or more of the proactive browsing rules from data storage or from a cache in volatile memory if such cache is configured and used by web browser . Rule evaluation logic then evaluates the retrieved proactive browsing rules to determine whether the conditions defined in the retrieved rules are satisfied by the data values stored in the event information. When rule evaluation logic determines that a particular rule is satisfied the rule evaluation logic notifies automatic redirection logic accordingly. For example rule evaluation logic may convey the rule ID and or the web page identified in the particular rule to automatic redirection logic by using a suitable communication mechanism.

Automatic redirection logic is configured to automatically redirect web browser to a particular web page. For example in response to being notified that a particular rule is satisfied automatic generation logic causes web browser to retrieve and load the web page identified in the particular rule. Automatic generation logic may accomplish this by executing a script e.g. such as JavaScript VB script etc. or a browser function or routine that instructs web browser to retrieve a new web page.

In some embodiments automatic redirection logic may be configured to cause web browser to display a pop up dialog to notify the user why the redirection is occurring and where the redirection is going and to allow the user to cancel the redirection if he or she so wishes. If within a certain time limit e.g. a few seconds the user does not provide input that cancels the redirection e.g. the user does not click on a Cancel button in the pop up and without receiving any additional input from the user automatic redirection logic causes web browser to automatically access the particular web page that is identified in the particular rule which triggered the redirection.

According to the techniques described herein a proactive browsing rule is a set of data that defines one or more conditions and at least one browsing related action that is to be performed without receiving any additional user input when the one or more conditions are satisfied. In various embodiments a proactive browsing rule may be stored in any suitable data structures including but not limited to as data record s in one or more tables as a set of name value pairs in a configuration file as data entries in a directory e.g. LDAP database or ActiveX directory and as any other data object conforming to a standard or a proprietary format.

According to the techniques described herein a proactive browsing rule is associated with a rule identifier ID that identifies the rule. The rule ID may be any suitable value e.g. such as a rule name rule number etc. and may be manually or automatically assigned to the rule when the rule is created and or stored.

A condition defined in a proactive browsing rule may be based on various parameters that can reflect or can be otherwise associated with events and the event information thereof. For example in some embodiments a condition may be defined by using one or more of the following parameters or any combination thereof 

In the context of the techniques described herein a browsing related action is an action or operation that can be performed by a web browser on behalf of a user. A typical browsing related action is a redirection operation in which a web browser is redirected to a web page that is different from the web page currently displayed in the browser or in a tab thereof. It is noted however that the techniques for proactive web browsing described herein are not limited to actions that are redirection operations. Rather various embodiments may utilize and implement proactive browsing rules that can specify any browsing related action that can be performed automatically without requiring additional and or interactive input from the user and that can enhance the browsing experience of the user.

According to the techniques described herein a proactive browsing rule can define an action and one or more parameters of the action. For example in a particular proactive browsing rule the action can be defined as

When the conditions defined in this particular proactive browsing rule are satisfied the performance of the above action would cause a web browser to access the web page at the URL address of http sports.yahoo.com nba teams gsw . In various embodiments an action parameter that is used to identify a web page can be specified in various formats or forms. For example in some embodiments the parameter may specify the URI of a web page e.g. such as URL address . In another example some embodiments may specify a set of values that can be directly or indirectly used to generate a web page identifier on the fly this functionality may be useful in situations that require dynamic generation of the URL address of the web page towards which the proactive browsing action is directed.

In some embodiments in addition to conditions and actions a proactive browsing rule may include one or more additional attributes. For example a proactive browsing rule may include a scheduling attribute where the value of this attributes defines the days times at which the rule is to be evaluated e.g. the attribute value may be Monday Friday 8 00 am to 5 00 pm which indicates that the rule is to be evaluated only during regular business hours . In another example a proactive browsing rule may include a status attribute where the value of this attribute indicates whether the rule is active or inactive e.g. this attribute would allow the user to turn the rule on or off . It is noted that the techniques described herein are not limited to any particular types of rule attributes and for this reason the examples of rule attributes provided herein are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

In some embodiments the techniques described herein provide for prioritizing the rules in a set of proactive browsing rules. Each rule in a set of proactive browsing rules may be assigned a priority number or value and during operation the rules in the set are evaluated in the order of their priority numbers or values. The priority of the rules may be set manually by a user or may be automatically assigned based on heuristics.

For example if a particular user places a higher priority on checking e mail the techniques described herein allow the user to assign the highest priority to a mail check rule that defines a redirection action to the user s web e mail page. Thus when the proactive browsing rules associated with the user are evaluated the mail check rule is evaluated first since it has the highest priority and the user will be automatically redirected to access her web e mail page provided that the conditions specified in the mail check rule are satisfied e.g. such conditions may be based on the time of day on the time elapsed since the last time the web e mail page was accessed etc. . It is noted that the techniques described herein allow the user to turn the mail check rule on or off as desired and or to schedule the evaluation of this rule only during some days and times thereof.

According to the techniques described herein proactive browsing rules can be created by using least three approaches. In the first approach proactive browsing rules are generated in response to user input that defines the conditions and actions included in the rules. In the second approach proactive browsing rules are automatically generated based on the browsing history of one or more users or by using event based machine learning techniques. The approach is a hybrid approach in which a proactive browsing rule is first automatically generated and is thereafter suggested to the user thereby allowing the user to edit accept and or reject the rule.

For example in some embodiments a web browser presents a GUI form to a user and user input received through the GUI form is used to generate the proactive browsing rule s entered by the user. The proactive browsing rules generated for the user may be stored as user preference settings in the web browser in a client side implementation of the techniques described herein or as settings associated with a user account in a web portal in a server side implementation of the techniques described herein .

In some embodiments proactive browsing rules may be determined automatically based on the browsing history of a user. For example one mechanism for automatically determining a rule may include the following steps. First a rule generation logic e.g. in a web server or a web browser keeps track or log of the web pages visited by a user and the events that precede or cause the user to visit specific web pages. For example the rule generation logic may keep a log with the browsing history of the user and may gather additional context information for each visited web page such as for example the user ID of the user the location identifier e.g. the IP address of the computing device used by the user to access a given web page the day of the week and the time of day when the user visited the given web page and any event information that is available for events that were detected immediately prior to the user visiting the given web page. After the rule generation logic determines that the user has visited a particular web page a certain threshold number of times e.g. 5 times in response to the same event the rule generation logic automatically generates a candidate rule. The conditions in the candidate rule are based on attributes of that event and or on the context information gathered by the rule generation logic for that particular web page. The action in the candidate rule is a redirection operation to the particular web page which is identified in the candidate rule by a web page address or some other identifier. After generating the candidate rule the rule generation logic may automatically store the candidate rule as a proactive browsing rule. Alternatively the rule generation logic may cause a web browser to display the candidate rule to the user and to prompt the user to edit accept and or reject the rule. If the user provides input that edits and accepts the candidate rule the rule generation logic stores the edited candidate rule as a proactive browsing rule. If the user rejects the candidate rule the rule generation logic discards the candidate rule and may provide the user with the option to re configure one or more parameters e.g. such as the threshold number of visits that were used to generate the candidate rule.

According to the techniques described herein proactive browsing rules may be determined automatically based on the browsing history of multiple users. For example in some embodiments the techniques described herein may be implemented on one or more web servers that support a web portal that is used by a large number of users. In these embodiments the web servers may keep track or log of the web pages that are visited by multiple users along with various context information associated with a given web page. When the web servers determine based on configurable threshold parameters that a particular web page is of common interest to multiple users of the web portal the web servers may generate a candidate rule that specifies conditions and redirection action to the particular web page in the manner described above. The web servers may then suggest the candidate rule to one or more users for edit approval. For example the web servers can store the candidate rule in the personalized preferences page of a given user and may send a message to the user to review the candidate rule. The user may then edit and accept or reject the candidate rule by accessing her preferences page and providing the necessary input.

In some embodiments a proactive browsing rule may define conditions that are satisfied by a time based event that can occur within a given window of time. For example the rule generation logic e.g. in a web server or a web browser may determine that a particular user visits the same web page in intervals of time that are roughly equal. For example based on the browsing history of the user the rule generation logic may determine that during normal business hours the user visits his web e mail page about once in every hour and a half. In response to determining this the rule generation logic may automatically determine a proactive browsing rule in which the conditions specify a 90 minute timer that is based on the system clock and a redirection action that specifies the web e mail page of the user. In operation in response to detecting that the time on the system clock indicates that the 90 minute timer has expired a rule evaluation logic e.g. in a web server or a web browser determines that the rule is satisfied and notifies an automatic redirection logic which automatically redirects the user to her web e mail page.

In some embodiments the rule generation logic may determine a proactive browsing rule in which the condition is a time window of a certain number of minutes hours whereas detecting the occurrence of an event within this time window as opposed to exact time will cause the action specified in the rule to be performed. To determine such rule a rule generation logic e.g. in a web server or a web browser first determines a generic pattern by recognizing repeating visits to the same particular web page e.g. based on a threshold number . Then the rule generation logic may determine the most common or average time at which such visits have occurred and may determine such time window around the common average time that a certain threshold percentage e.g. at least 60 of the visits to the particular web page would fall within this time window. The rule generation logic may then use the determined time window to define a condition for a proactive browsing rule that specifies a redirection action to the particular web page. In this manner the techniques described herein provide for automatically determining rules that can specify conditions based on a different time related granularity.

According to the techniques described herein some embodiments may use event based machine learning mechanisms to automatically determine proactive browsing rules. For example based on event information of previously detected events a machine learning mechanism can detect that event C occurs after events A and B so after a sufficient threshold number of such detections the mechanism may infer that that event C is invoked in response to the occurrence of events A and B. For example in the context of the techniques described herein event A may be a specific day of the week event B may a specific time during the day and event C may be the user accessing a particular web page. In accordance the techniques described herein based on such inference a rule generation logic e.g. in a web server or a web browser may automatically determine a proactive browsing rule in which the conditions are based on a day and time parameters and in which the action is a redirection action to the particular web page.

In some embodiments the techniques described herein provide for prioritizing the rules in a set of proactive browsing rules based on a dynamic priority. For example if a user visits a given web page 10 times a day a rule generation logic may assign a priority to a rule redirecting to this given web page that is higher than the priority assigned to another rule that redirects to a web page that is visited by the user only once a day. Further the rule generation logic may keep track of the frequencies with which web pages specified in the proactive browsing rules are visited and may dynamically re calculate the priorities assigned to the rules based on the tracked frequencies.

According to the techniques described herein a web server or a component thereof e.g. a rule generation logic causes a web browser to display GUI form to user Greg . GUI form receives input from user Greg that defines and or edits one or more proactive browsing rules such as rule .

Rule includes rule ID A which as illustrated in is named Fantasy Football . Rule also includes conditions B and action C. Conditions B specify that a day of the week parameter is set to Sunday and that a time parameter is set to before 12 00 pm . Action C specifies the redirection operation go to and the parameter of the redirection operation as the web page Fantasy Football . It is noted that the label Fantasy Football in the list box is mapped to the URL address of the web page that stores the Fantasy Football content. 

In operation user Greg visits the web portal and logs in by providing a username and a correct password in web browser . An authentication server or service raises a login event in response to successfully authenticating user Greg . A web server or a component thereof e.g. an event detection logic detects the login event by for example receiving an indication of successful login and the user ID of user Greg from the authentication server or service. The web server or the component thereof then gathers various event information that among other values includes a value indicating that the current day of the week is Sunday and a value indicating that the current time is 10 21 am .

In response to receiving the event information and the user ID according to the techniques described herein the web server or a component thereof e.g. a rule evaluation logic uses the user ID to locate and retrieve the set of proactive browsing rules that are associated with the user ID i.e. with user Greg . Rule Fantasy Football is included in the retrieved set because it is associated with user Greg . Then the web server or the component thereof uses the event information to determine whether any of the retrieved rules are satisfied. For example the web server or the component thereof compares the values in the event information e.g. the value indicating that the current day of the week is Sunday and the value indicating that the current time is 10 21 am to the parameter values specified in the conditions in each of the retrieved rules. Since the value indicating the current day of the week matches the day of the week parameter value in conditions B and since the value indicating the current time satisfies the value of the time parameter in conditions B the web server or the component thereof determines that rule is satisfied. It is noted that the determination that rule is satisfied is not based on user Greg opening browser and logging in rather this determination is made based on time related information that is collected after user Greg has logged in. For example if user Greg had logged in on a Friday rule would not have been satisfied because the day of the week parameter defined in rule would not match to the current day of the week value of Friday . In other words rule would not be satisfied every time user Greg logs in but would only be satisfied when the conditions defined in rule are satisfied. 

In response to determining that rule is satisfied the web server or a component thereof e.g. an automatic redirection logic causes web browser to perform action C which is defined in rule as a redirection action to web page Fantasy Football . For example the web server or the component thereof may send to web browser a script e.g. such as JavaScript or VBScript that identifies the URL address of web page Fantasy Football and that causes the web browser to load that web page. Alternatively the web server or the component thereof may send to browser an HTTP response message with a redirect header which stores the status code 302 and identifies the URL address of the Fantasy Football web page in a Location field.

In response as indicated in web browser displays pop up window to user Greg . Pop up window notifies user Greg that the Fantasy Football rule is being applied and provides a Cancel button which allows user Greg to cancel the redirection. After waiting for a few seconds e.g. 2 seconds web browser determines that no input has been received from user Greg to cancel the redirection. Then as indicated in and without receiving any additional and or interactive input from the user web browser automatically retrieves and displays the Fantasy Football web page .

In this manner the techniques for proactive web browsing described herein allow the web portal to automatically navigate the user to the particular web page that the user wants to see based on the particular context at that particular time. This enhances the user browsing experience because it allows the web portal to intelligently re route and navigate the user to where the user wants and intends to go without requiring the user provide additional input by typing a specific URL address or by clicking through one or more links to intervening web pages that are not of interest to the user at that particular time.

In step a web server or a component thereof determines a set of proactive browsing rules. Each rule in the set indicates a web page that is to be accessed directly by a web browser without receiving any additional and or interactive user input that directly or indirectly identifies the web page.

In step the web server or a component thereof stores the set of proactive browsing rules in computer data storage.

In step the web server or a component thereof detects the occurrence of a time based event that is represented by datetime information. In the context of the techniques described herein time based event refers to an event that is associated with at least one date and or time parameter that is specified in the conditions of the proactive browsing rules and datetime information refers to values of one or more date and or time components that include but are not limited to year quarter of the year week of the year month day of the month day of the week and time of day in any combination of hours minutes seconds milliseconds etc.

In response to detecting the occurrence of the time based event in step the web server or a component thereof evaluates the set of proactive browsing rules to determine whether any rules in the set of rules are satisfied. For example the web server or the component thereof evaluates one or more conditions associated with each rule based on the datetime information that represents the detected time based event.

In step while a web browser associated with the rules being evaluated is in use the web server or a component thereof determines that a particular proactive browsing rule in the set of rules is satisfied. For example the web server may determine that one or more data values included in the datetime information match or otherwise satisfy the one or more conditions defined in the particular rule.

In response to determining that the particular rule is satisfied in step the web server or a component thereof automatically redirects the web browser to access a particular web page that is indicated in the satisfied particular rule. For example the web server or the component thereof causes the web browser to be redirected from the current web page that is displayed in the web browser to the particular web page that is specified in the satisfied particular rule. The automatic redirection of the web browser is performed without receiving from the user that is using the web browser any additional and or interactive input that identifies the particular web page to which the web browser is redirected.

In step a web server or a component thereof determines a set of proactive browsing rules. Each rule in the set indicates a web page that is to be accessed directly by a web browser without receiving any additional and or interactive user input that directly or indirectly identifies the web page.

In step the web server or a component thereof stores the set of proactive browsing rules in computer data storage.

In step the web server or a component thereof detects that an electronic message for the user has been received. In the context of the techniques described herein electronic message refers to an electronic communication that is transmitted over a network. Examples of electronic messages include but are not limited to e mail messages RSS feed updates tweeter messages and the like. To detect an electronic message the web server or the component thereof may request and or receive a notification that the electronic message has been received by the web server or a component thereof or by some other server or service that is associated with the web server or to which the web server has access. For example in a web portal setting the web server may receive a notification from an e mail server that provides e mail services to users of the web portal.

In embodiments that are implemented on a web browser the web browser or a component thereof e.g. a plug in module or a toolbar can detect the receipt of electronic communications through an Application Programming Interface API that allows the web browser to receive push events from external applications and remote servers or services. For example the web browser may provide logic that allows the user to register with remote servers or services to receive push events that indicate the receipt of one or more types of electronic messages.

In response to detecting that the electronic message has been received in step the web server or a component thereof evaluates the set of proactive browsing rules to determine whether any rules in the set of rules are satisfied.

In step while a web browser associated with the rules being evaluated is in use the web server or a component thereof determines that a particular proactive browsing rule in the set of rules is satisfied. For example the web server or the component thereof may determine that the conditions defined in the particular rule require receipt of an electronic message in order to be satisfied and that the received electronic message has a type that satisfies these conditions.

In response to determining that the particular rule is satisfied in step the web server or a component thereof automatically redirects the web browser to access a particular web page that is indicated in the satisfied particular rule. For example the web server or the component thereof causes the web browser to be redirected from the current web page that is displayed in the web browser to an web e mail page that is specified in the satisfied particular rule. The automatic redirection of the web browser is performed without receiving from the user that is using the web browser any additional and or interactive input that identifies the web e mail page to which the web browser is redirected.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the techniques described herein may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a Liquid Crystal Display LCD for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques for proactive web browsing described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operate in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. Thus the sole and exclusive indicator of what is the invention and is intended by the applicants to be the invention is the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction. Any definitions expressly set forth herein for terms contained in such claims shall govern the meaning of such terms as used in the claims. Hence no limitation element property feature advantage or attribute that is not expressly recited in a claim should limit the scope of such claim in any way. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

