---

title: Systems and methods for exporting usage history data as input to a management platform of a target cloud-based network
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for exporting usage history data as input to a management platform of a target cloud-based network. A usage export service can be abstracted and provided external to a host cloud-based network, which can capture the usage history of software or resources by one or more users in the host cloud-based network. Those user(s) or others may wish to export some or all of the usage history to a target cloud or clouds, to perform management or configuration actions in the target cloud(s). The selective subset of the usage history can be transmitted to the cloud management system of the target cloud-based network. The selective subset can be used for management actions in the target cloud(s), such as for instance, to instantiate or configure a set of virtual machines for failover or re-clouding purposes, or to aggregate usage history from the host and target cloud(s).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08606897&OS=08606897&RS=08606897
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08606897
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
The invention relates generally to systems and methods for exporting usage history data as input to a management platform of a target cloud based network and more particularly to platforms and techniques for providing a usage export service configured to capture manage and export the usage history of software or services by one or more users in a host cloud to a target cloud based network.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes and so forth. Due in part to the user s requirements and overall usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant and the user s deployment of virtual machines software and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases the user may also utilize multiple independent clouds to support the user s cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end user groups in those different cloud networks.

As such users or operators who wish to capture the usage history of their diverse cloud based application deployments and potentially export the usage history data between two or more clouds may be confronted with various difficulties. As one complicating factor the user may need to independently contact or register with cloud management systems in each cloud across which they wish to share usage history data. A user or operator may for instance arrange for a backup cloud based network for purposes of fail over operation and or to stand in reserve to re cloud the resources of the user s population of virtual machines if those machines have reach capacity limits of the host cloud. In other cases the user or administrator may wish to aggregate the usage histories of a host cloud with one or more target clouds. However in existing platforms the cloud management system s of the target cloud or clouds may have no direct channel or technique to extract the usage history of the host or originating cloud.

Each of the host and target cloud management systems which support the user s cloud networks may in fact have different communication protocols security requirements application programming interfaces APIs and or other specifications standards or formats. An administrator attempting to organize and export the usage activity or related record of a host cloud to one or more target clouds which with the user may or may not already be registered may therefore have to manually configure the connection or data to be able to compatibly communicate with the cloud management system s or other management platform s located in individual target clouds. It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for exporting usage history data as input to a management platform of a target cloud based network in which users based in a host cloud or clouds can access an external service to access usage history data in a host cloud filter and convert that data and export the resulting usage history data or selective subsets of that data from the host cloud deployment to remote management platforms of other clouds.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers for example one or more of servers 1 to x 1 to y or 1 to z as shown can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the kernel based virtualization manager KVM available from Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface via an application server such as a Java server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In aspects as shown the set of usage history data once captured can be transmitted from the host cloud to a usage export service which can be located external to the host cloud . The usage export service can in embodiments be supported or implemented by a usage monitoring server which can be configured to perform usage history management operations as described herein. The usage export service can in embodiments operate under the control of an administrator or other user operating a workstation or other console or machine. It may be noted that while embodiments are shown in which the usage export service operates under the control of a user operating the workstation some or all of the operations carried out by the usage monitoring service can also or instead operate automatically under programmed control without requiring user input. Other configurations of the usage export service are possible.

In embodiments as shown the usage export service can interact with the cloud management system of the host cloud and receive the set of usage history data set of usage history data reflecting the consumption of hardware software communications and or other resources by the set of host virtual machines . In embodiments the set of usage history data can be transmitted to the usage export service based on a request or command from the usage export service to the cloud management system of the host cloud on a pull or demand basis. In embodiments the set of usage history data can be transmitted to the usage export service on a push basis from the cloud management system of the host cloud based on a predetermined schedule or other triggering event. Once received by the usage export service the usage export service can store the set of usage history data to a usage database such as a local or remote database or other data store. The usage database can store the set of usage history data for one or more clouds over any desired period or periods.

The usage monitoring service can thereby build a record in the form of set of usage history data of the consumption of resources of the set of host virtual machines over a period of time in the host cloud . The usage monitoring service can in aspects generate an export or transmission of the set of usage history data and or a selective subset of the usage history data to a one or more target clouds as input to a management platform in that one or more target clouds . In aspects the management platform can be or include a cloud management system or in addition or instead can be or include a network management platform such as the func Fedora unified network controller platform available from Red Hat Inc. Raleigh N.C. or others. In aspects the usage export service can build and transmit the set of usage history data and or selective subset of the usage history data whether the user of the set of host virtual machines is already registered to the one or more target clouds or not. The delivery of the set of usage history data and or the selective subset of the usage history data to the cloud management system of the one or more target clouds can permit the management of a set of target virtual machines to alter or adapt the configuration of those machines and take other management actions based directly or indirectly on that data as described herein.

In embodiments the administrator operator or other user of the set of host virtual machines can select or filter a subset of the set of usage history data they wish to export to the one or more target clouds as the selective subset of the usage history data . In aspects the user can input or transmit a set of export filter criteria to the usage export service to provide a set of criteria fields and or other data or parameters by which they wish to reduce or filter the set of usage history data to generate the selective subset of the usage history data . In aspects the user may wish to apply the export filter criteria to reduce the size of the transmitted data and or the transmission overhead for that data as well as to extract subsets of the set of usage history data that may be most directly useful or needed to configure or operate the set of target virtual machines and or set of target applications operating in the one or more target clouds . The set of target applications can be provisioned or accessed from a set of target repositories and or other sources. In aspects the selective subset of the usage history data and associated data can be used by the cloud management system of the one or more target clouds to generate a set of target command data to instantiate configure suspend update and or otherwise manage the set of target virtual machines . The set of export filter criteria can for instance specify that the user wishes to capture and export all data in set of usage history data related to the use of Application A over a period from Date 1 to Date 2 or can for further instance specify that the user wishes to export all data in set of usage history data for User Group A or other identified sets or classes of users. In aspects the export filter criteria can specify additional or other fields data types or criteria.

In aspects the export filter criteria can be configured or specified to match the management operations which can as noted be effected via the set of target command data which are intended to be carried out on the set of target virtual machines . For instance the export filter criteria can be configured to extract overall usage patterns in the set of usage history data so that the set of target virtual machines can serve as a fail over or backup network in the event of the large scale or systematic failure of the set of host virtual machines . In such cases the selective subset of the usage history data can reflect the overall processing bandwidth software and or other consumption of the set of host virtual machines so that the set of target virtual machines can be configured instantiated and or prepared for instantiation based on detected failure events in the host cloud . It may be noted that the selective subset of the usage history data generated by applying the export filter criteria to the set of usage history data can be stored by the usage export service to the usage database and or other local or remote storage.

In terms of the filtering or reduction of set of usage history data it may be noted that for further instance the export filter criteria can be configured to capture and extract virtual machine utilization information for the set of host virtual machines to determine whether a capacity overload may exist or be imminent in the host cloud and therefore prepare the set of target virtual machines to provide supplemental capacity to the host cloud on a demand basis. For yet further instance the export filter criteria can be configured to specify various combinations of applications in the set of host applications to model the expected usage patterns of a similar deployment to be effected in the one or more target clouds for example to expand a financial or engineering project to include more user classes groups. Other types of configuration can be performed in the one or more target clouds and or the set of target virtual machines hosted in the one or more target clouds. It may be noted that in embodiments the set of usage history data can be transmitted to the cloud management system of the one or more target clouds without reduction or filtering if desired.

In the usage export service can receive a request and or command to export the set of usage history data set of usage history data and or a selective subset of the usage history data from a user of workstation and or from a service or application in the host cloud . In the usage export service can receive and or extract a set of export criteria from the user of workstation and or other source to generate the selective subset of the usage history data as appropriate. In the usage export service can apply the set of usage export filter criteria to the set of usage history data set of usage history data to generate the selective subset of the usage history data as appropriate. In the usage export service can transmit the selective subset of the usage history data to the one or more target clouds as appropriate. In the selective subset of the usage history data can be received as an input to the cloud management system and or other management platform or service of the one or more target clouds . In the selective subset of the usage history data can be accessed and or extracted in the cloud management system and or other management platform or service of the one or more target clouds to generate a deployment or configuration action in the set of target virtual machines and or perform other analytics on the one or more target clouds .

In the cloud management system and or other platform or service of the one or more target clouds can generate a backup deployment configure a fail over service and or perform other configuration or management action s in the one or more target clouds based on the selective subset of the usage history data . In the usage export service and or other platform or logic can update the set of usage history data and or selective subset of the usage history data to generate an updated backup deployment and or perform other configuration or management actions in the one or more target clouds via the cloud management system of the one or more target clouds as appropriate. In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines set of virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. For further example while embodiments have been described in which one usage export service operates to access track and manage the usage history including the profile of a user s consumption of software and hardware resources in the host cloud in embodiments multiple usage exporting services can operate and cooperate to maintain and transfer usage data on a cross cloud cross vendor or other basis. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

