---

title: Shut-off valve
abstract: This invention relates to a shut-off valve, and primarily to a valve for shutting-off the flow of a fluid such as a mains water supply to commercial premises or a domestic dwelling. The shut-off valve () comprises a diaphragm valve and a pilot valve (). The diaphragm valve has an inlet () and an outlet (), a valve member () and a valve seat (), the valve member having a closed position in which it engages the seat and prevents the flow of fluid from the inlet to the outlet, and an open position in which the valve member does not engage the seat and fluid can flow from the inlet to the outlet. A first fluid conduit () connects the inlet of the diaphragm valve to the inlet of the pilot valve, and a second fluid conduit () connects the outlet of the pilot valve to the outlet of the diaphragm valve. The pilot valve has an open position in which fluid can flow from the first fluid conduit to the second fluid conduit and a closed position in which fluid cannot flow from the first fluid conduit to the second fluid conduit. The invention is characterized in that the diaphragm valve has a control member () which is adapted to hold the valve member against the valve seat, whereby the diaphragm valve remains closed even if the pressure at its outlet equals or perhaps exceeds the pressure at its inlet.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09109719&OS=09109719&RS=09109719
owner: SURESTOP LIMITED, a British Corporation
number: 09109719
owner_city: England
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20100210
---
This invention relates to a shut off valve and in particular to a valve for shutting off the flow of a fluid such as a mains water supply.

The invention is expected to find its greatest utility as a shut off valve for the water supply to a domestic dwelling and the following description will therefore relate primarily to such application. However use of the invention for other liquid flows such as liquid petrochemicals and in other applications such as the water supply to commercial and recreational premises are not thereby excluded. Also the invention is applicable to gas flows i.e. it can be used to shut off the flow of a gas along a pipeline.

In this description directional and orientational terms such as up down lift etc. refer to the valve in the orientation shown in . For the avoidance of doubt it will be understood that the valve may be used in other orientations and the directional and orientational terms should be adjusted for those other orientations.

The mains water supply usually enters a domestic dwelling through a single pipeline and close to the point of entry a tap known as a stop cock is typically provided so that the water supply to the dwelling can be shut off if required for example if there is a water leak within the dwelling. The stop cock is usually located out of sight and is not always easily accessible particularly for the elderly or infirm. In addition the stop cock may not need to be operated for many years and might have become seized during that time so that it is not possible for the dwelling occupier to operate it when it is ultimately required.

It is known to provide a shut off valve which can be fitted into the mains supply adjacent to or instead of the stop cock which shut off valve can be more easily operated particularly by the elderly or infirm. In addition certain designs are remotely operated so that the valve can be actuated from a convenient location.

One prior art device is disclosed in GB patent application 2 279 393. That document discloses an electrically operated stop cock which can be fitted to the mains supply pipe in addition to or instead of the manually operated stop cock. The electrically operated stop cock can be actuated by the dwelling occupier from a remote location.

The device of GB 2 279 393 has the major disadvantages of being expensive and complex due to the requirement for electrical actuation. Also it is indicated that in the event of an electrical failure the valve will close shutting off the water supply but that a magnet can be used to reopen the valve manually if desired. Clearly it might not be desired that the water be shut off if there is a failure in the electricity supply and the requirement to locate a suitable magnet and then be able to open the valve manually is likely to be extremely difficult.

Another prior device is disclosed in WO 97 05416. In that document there is provided a shut off valve which can be actuated remotely and which operates by water pressure alone i.e. it requires no complex mechanical or electrical components. This document discloses a diaphragm valve located in a water supply pipeline and which valve is normally biased closed. When it is desired for water to flow along the pipeline which may be connected to a tap over a domestic sink for example the user can depress an actuator which mechanically opens a pilot valve which in turn opens the diaphragm valve and allows water to flow along the pipeline. When the user stops depressing the actuator the pilot valve closes and the diaphragm valve subsequently closes. The device is intended to save water use by cutting off the water supply to the tap when the actuator is not being depressed in the event that the tap is left turned on for example.

Another remote shut off valve is disclosed in EP 1 195 547. This valve also uses a diaphragm valve the opening and closing of which is controlled by a pilot valve. The diaphragm valve is intended to be located close to the mains water inlet to a building for example with the pilot valve being located conveniently for actuation when required. Ordinarily the pilot valve and the diaphragm valve are open allowing mains water to flow into the building but when the pilot valve is closed the diaphragm valve will also close shutting off the water supply.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an improved shut off valve and in particular a shut off valve which can replace the stop cock if desired.

Prior art shut off valves such as that of EP 1 195 547 cannot usually replace the stop cock since it is not possible to guarantee that the water flow will be prevented when the shut off valve is closed. Operation of the diaphragm valve relies upon the differential pressure between the inlet and the outlet and if the differential pressure falls below a threshold value the diaphragm valve will not remain closed and water flow can occur. The threshold value of the differential pressure depends upon the particular diaphragm valve but a pressure at the inlet of around 0.4 bar 4 10Pa greater than the pressure at the outlet is typically required to ensure that the diaphragm valve remains fully closed.

It is not always possible to guarantee that the pressure at the inlet will exceed the pressure at the outlet by at least this threshold value especially with a mains water supply to a domestic dwelling and so the shut off valves are usually used in addition to and typically downstream of the stop cock.

The present invention seeks to provide a shut off valve in which the valve can remain closed even with low differential pressures and even with small back pressures so that the valve can be used to replace the stop cock if desired. The shut off valve can be remotely operated if desired.

According to the invention there is provided a shut off valve comprising a diaphragm valve and a pilot valve the diaphragm valve having an inlet and an outlet a valve member and a valve seat the valve member having a closed position in which it engages the seat and blocks the flow of fluid from the inlet to the outlet and an open position in which the valve member does not engage the seat and fluid can flow from the inlet to the outlet a first fluid conduit connecting the inlet of the diaphragm valve to the inlet of the pilot valve and a second fluid conduit connecting the outlet of the pilot valve to the outlet of the diaphragm valve the pilot valve having an open position in which fluid can flow from the first fluid conduit to the second fluid conduit and a closed position in which fluid cannot flow from the first fluid conduit to the second fluid conduit characterised in that the diaphragm valve has a control member which engages the valve member and can be used to hold the valve member against the valve seat.

Preferably the control member includes a compression spring. Desirably the compression spring lies between the valve member and a post. The use of a compression spring broadens the tolerance ranges for the post and other parts of the control member.

Desirably the control member is movable between an operative position and an inoperative position the control member acting to hold the valve member against the valve seat in its operative position.

Preferably the control member is carried by the body of the diaphragm valve. Preferably also the body of the diaphragm valve carries a manually operable latch mechanism which can be used to move the control member between its operative and inoperative positions.

Desirably the latch mechanism includes a lock plate which can engage a part of the control member when the control member is in its operative position. Desirably also the lock plate is spring biased towards the engaged position.

Preferably the manually operable latch mechanism has two functions the first function being to disengage the lock plate from the control member the second function being to move the control member from its operative position to its non operative position. When it is desired to open the diaphragm valve the lock plate must first be disengaged from the control member so that the control member can subsequently be moved to its inoperative position. Desirably the manually operable latch mechanism also has a third function namely to move the control member from its inoperative position to its operative position.

It will be understood that it is usually not possible manually to drive the valve member of a diaphragm valve against the valve seat because the fluid pressure holding the valve member open is too great. Instead it is necessary to cause the diaphragm valve to close under fluid pressure by first closing the pilot valve. Preferably movement of the control member to its operative position also closes the pilot valve so that the diaphragm valve is caused to close by fluid pressure and can be maintained closed by a combination of the fluid pressure and the mechanical force provided by the control member holding the valve member against the valve seat.

The mechanical force with which the control member holds the valve member against the valve seat can avoid any tendency of the diaphragm valve to open if the differential pressure falls close to zero and can in some embodiments maintain the diaphragm valve closed in the presence of back pressures i.e. the pressure at the outlet being greater than the pressure at the inlet .

The valve member or diaphragm is secured to the body and is flexible so that it can alternately seal against the valve seat in which case it closes off the flow of fluid from the chamber to the hollow interior and so from the inlet to the outlet and be free of the valve seat in which case fluid can flow from the chamber to the hollow interior and so from the inlet to the outlet .

The diaphragm valve of this embodiment shares many features of prior art diaphragm valves as will be described here for ease of reference.

The position of the valve member in relation to the valve seat is controlled by a pilot valve . The valve seat is substantially circular and is surrounded by the chamber which contains fluid at the pressure of the inlet for example the mains water supply pressure .

The pilot valve is connected to the inlet by way of a fluid pathway comprising an aperture through the valve member the control chamber and a first fluid conduit . The pilot valve is connected to the outlet by a second fluid conduit .

When the pilot valve is closed as shown in the control chamber is in communication with the inlet but is not in communication with the outlet . The pressure within the control chamber is therefore substantially that of the inlet . Since the inlet pressure is greater than the outlet pressure and since the inlet pressure acts over a greater area of the valve member within the control chamber than within the chamber the valve member is driven against the valve seat .

When the pilot valve is opened however the control chamber is in fluid communication with the outlet and the pressure within the control chamber falls to substantially the pressure of the outlet . The greater pressure at the inlet acting within the chamber lifts the valve member and puts the inlet in direct communication with the outlet .

In common with prior art diaphragm valves it is necessary that the greatest restriction to fluid flow through the pilot valve occurs upstream of the control chamber and this is usually achieved by ensuring that the cross sectional area of the aperture is significantly smaller than the cross sectional area of the first and second fluid conduits .

Embodiments of the present invention differ from conventional shut off valves in that they have a control member which can hold the valve member closed even if the differential pressure between the inlet and outlet is low or even if the pressure at the outlet is slightly greater than the pressure at the inlet . Thus it will be understood that with a conventional diaphragm valve as described above closure of the valve member depends upon the difference in the pressure acting above and below the valve member and the difference in the available area over which those pressures can act. In practice many diaphragm valves have a threshold differential pressure of 0.5 bar or less 5 10Pa but higher threshold differential pressures are known. Thus if the pressure at the inlet is less than 0.5 bar greater than the pressure at the outlet the diaphragm valve will not remain closed and some fluid flow from the inlet to the outlet will occur.

The present invention reduces the threshold differential pressure by providing a control member which can hold the valve member against the valve seat by an additional mechanical closure over and above the closure caused by fluid pressure.

As shown in the shut off valve includes a control member comprising a control element or substantially rigid post a spring cup and a compression spring . The post can be moved between its operative position and its inoperative position .

It will be understood that in the embodiment of the post also provides part of the pilot valve this embodiment taking advantage of the fact that it is necessary to provide a guide for the post within the body of the diaphragm member and it is relatively simple to utilise a part of the guide as a cylinder of the pilot valve the cylinder being connected to the first and second fluid conduits . The post is generally of a similar diameter to the cylinder and so is a sliding fit therewithin but has a part which is of reduced diameter and around which fluid can flow within the cylinder .

When the post of the control member is in its inoperative position the part lies within the cylinder and fluid can flow from the first fluid conduit around the part and to the second fluid conduit . However when the post of the control member is in its operative position the flow of fluid from the first fluid conduit to the second fluid conduit is blocked by the post and an O ring seal fitted thereto.

When the pilot valve is closed a differential pressure between the inlet and the outlet will cause the valve member to move against the valve seat . The control member acts to hold the valve member against the valve seat by compressing the spring by way of the spring cup .

The control member is locked in its operative position by way of a lock plate FIGS. which locates in a groove formed in the upper end of the post . The lock plate is resiliently biased by a compression spring towards the post and will enter the groove as soon as the post is correctly positioned i.e. as soon as the post of the control means is moved to the operative position.

It will be understood that the compression spring of the control member serves three functions. Firstly the compression spring reduces the adverse effects of manufacturing tolerances i.e. it is not necessary that the post or spring cup engages the valve member so that the length of the post is less critical to correct operation than would be the case without the spring.

Secondly the compression spring enables the post to be locked by the lock plate whilst the valve member is still closing. Thus it will be understood that the fluid pressure within the control chamber will typically take several seconds to increase sufficiently to move the valve member against the valve seat . It would be undesirable to require the user to press down the manually operable latch mechanism for an extended period of time until the lock plate locks the post . Because of the compression spring the post may be moved downwardly faster than the valve member storing energy within the compression spring which energy assists continued closing movement of the valve member . In the embodiment shown the gap between the spring cup and the valve member in the operative position is small so that in this embodiment the downwards movement of the post can exceed the downwards movement of the valve member by only a small amount. In other embodiments the gap between the spring cup and the valve member can be greater resulting in a reduced time for which the user must press down the latch mechanism .

Thirdly the rating of the compression spring can be varied to suit the application it being understood that a weaker spring will require less force to depress the manually operable latch mechanism but a stronger spring will maintain the valve closed despite greater back pressures. Applications in which the pressure at the outlet could exceed the pressure at the inlet by 1 bar for example can utilise a spring of sufficient strength to ensure that the valve member will not lift from the valve seat under such back pressures. On the other hand applications in which the user is expected to be frail with little likelihood of back pressure such as the mains water supply to accommodation for the elderly or infirm for example can utilise a relatively weak spring.

The operation of the manually operable latch mechanism is best shown in relation to and . The latch mechanism incorporates a press button which is made up of separate components specifically a primary element a secondary element and a cover piece .

The primary element has two aligned pivot lugs which are located in aligned recesses carried by the body of the diaphragm valve. The secondary element also has two aligned pivot lugs which in this embodiment are also located in the same aligned recesses . The separate pivot lugs and allow the secondary element to pivot relative to the primary element .

The top end of the post is formed with a groove and the primary element has a fork which accommodates the groove . The post is therefore positively connected to the primary element so that pivoting movement of the primary element causes corresponding upward and downwards movement of the post . Downwards movement of the post is caused by depression of the left hand part of the primary element as drawn in i.e. to the left of the pivot axis. Upwards movement of the post is caused by depression of the right hand part of the primary element as drawn in .

As above described the post is locked in its operative position by the lock plate and cannot be moved from that position until the lock plate is released from the groove . As the post is pressed down towards the valve member by manual pressure upon the left hand part as viewed in of the primary element it reaches the position in which the groove is aligned with the lock plate whereupon the lock plate is driven into the groove by the spring .

The lock plate is released from the groove by the secondary element . The action of the secondary element is demonstrated by the primary element is not shown in these figures for ease of understanding . As the secondary element is pivoted downwardly its blade engages the cammed surface of the lock plate driving the lock plate out of the groove .

Once the lock plate has been released from the groove the post can be lifted by pivoting movement of the secondary element and primary element together. A small compression spring lies between the primary and secondary elements and moves the blade out of engagement with the cammed surface when the secondary element is released.

As the post is lifted from the position shown in its reduced diameter part enters the cylinder opening the pilot valve and reducing the pressure within the control chamber and allowing the valve member to lift away from the valve seat .

In another embodiment the post of the control member performs only the function of the mechanical lock upon the valve member and does not also provide the pilot valve.

In yet another embodiment the pilot valve is remote perhaps being connected to the diaphragm valve by way of flexible conduits as in EP 1 195 547. In such embodiments it would be possible to control the diaphragm valve by way of fluid pressure controlled by the remote pilot valve and by way of a local mechanical control member. However it would be preferred in such embodiments to utilise two pilot valves one remote pilot valve and one local pilot valve such as the pilot valve the pilot valves operating in series so that closing either pilot valve would cause the diaphragm valve to close. Such embodiments are preferred since the diaphragm valve could be closed and locked locally whilst the remote pilot valve was disconnected for example to re site the remote pilot valve. Unless the diaphragm valve was held closed by a local pilot valve it might inadvertently open if the remote pilot valve is disconnected.

A suitable embodiment utilising an additional remote pilot valve in series with the pilot valve could replace the first fluid conduit by two fluid conduits one of the fluid conduits connecting the control chamber to the remote pilot valve and the other fluid conduit connecting the remote pilot valve to the pilot valve . The remote pilot valve would then be in series with the pilot valve .

If it was desired to provide the opportunity to the user or installer to fit a remote pilot valve in addition to the local pilot valve then the pilot valve in could be replaced by a separate component which is generally similar to the pilot valve but has two open ended conduits in place of the fluid conduit one of the open ended conduits being in communication with the control chamber and the other of the open ended conduits being in communication with the pilot valve . The two open ended conduits would typically be connected directly together by the valve manufacturer suitably by a joining conduit. If the user or installer does not require a remote pilot valve then the local pilot valve could be operated similarly to the pilot valve with fluid flowing from the control chamber trough the pilot valve by way of the joining conduit. Alternatively if a remote pilot valve is desired the open ended conduits could be accessed by removal of the cover element and subsequent removal of the joining conduit the open ended conduits then being connected by respective fluid conduits to a remote pilot valve. This would provide a diaphragm valve having two pilot valves in series either or both of which can be closed in order to close the diaphragm valve.

In an alternative embodiment the lock plate could be supported at both of its ends so as to avoid the likelihood that the lock plate will lift under the force of the compression spring . In another alternative the pivotable lock plate could be replaced by a slide member.

The shut off valve preferably uses quick release connectors for all of the fluid connections. Many different types of quick release connector including JOHN GUEST connectors for example are known for connecting fluid conduits to components such as diaphragm valves.

