---

title: Location-aware adaptive event reminder
abstract: An appointment having an associated appointment location and a reminder time is received. The method also includes tracking a current location and a travel time, the travel time comprising an estimated amount of time for travel from the current location to the appointment location. Further, the method includes adjusting the reminder time to accommodate the travel time. Furthermore, the method includes activating an event reminder in accordance with the adjusted reminder time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09311628&OS=09311628&RS=09311628
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09311628
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
This invention relates generally to a calendaring application for a computing device and more specifically to providing location aware event reminders.

Remembering important events and meetings is a cumbersome and challenging task for a user amidst the number of tasks the user needs to perform. As is evident it is a common practice to schedule reminders for the important events. The reminders alert the user at a set amount of time reminder time prior to the commencement of the appointment. Most scheduling applications on mobile devices use dates and times for scheduling reminders. For example a calendar application may signal an alert to remind a user of an upcoming appointment.

Typically the reminder time is pre configured. For example a meeting alarm is usually configured to alert the user 15 minutes prior to the start of the meeting. However the user may be at a location that is more than 15 minutes away from the meeting when the alert is received. In such a scenario the alarm is not accurate and by the time the user reaches the event location the event has started or even completed.

In light of the foregoing discussion there is a need for an efficient method and system for providing location aware event reminders.

The above mentioned needs are met by a method system and computer program product for providing location aware event reminders.

An example of a method includes receiving an appointment having an associated appointment location and a reminder time. The method also includes tracking a current location and a travel time the travel time comprising an estimated amount of time for travel from the current location to the appointment location. Further the method includes adjusting the reminder time to accommodate the travel time. Furthermore the method includes activating an event reminder in accordance with the adjusted reminder time.

An example of a computer program product includes receiving an appointment having an associated appointment location and a reminder time. The computer program product also includes tracking a current location and a travel time the travel time comprising an estimated amount of time for travel from the current location to the appointment location. Further the computer program product includes adjusting the reminder time to accommodate the travel time. Furthermore the computer program product includes activating an event reminder in accordance with the adjusted reminder time.

An example of a system includes an interface module to receive an appointment having an associated appointment location and a reminder time. The system also includes a timer module to track a current location and a travel time the travel time comprising an estimated amount of time for travel from the current location to the appointment location.

The features and advantages described in this summary and in the following detailed description are not all inclusive and particularly many additional features and advantages will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art in view of the drawings specification and claims hereof. Moreover it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter resort to the claims being necessary to determine such inventive subject matter.

A method system and computer program product for providing location aware event reminders is disclosed. The following detailed description is intended to provide example implementations to one of ordinary skill in the art and is not intended to limit the invention to the explicit disclosure as one or ordinary skill in the art will understand that variations can be substituted that are within the scope of the invention as described.

At step an appointment having an associated appointment location and a reminder period is received from a user. In another embodiment no reminder period is set. The user creates the appointment from a current location. The appointment may be a task list application or a calendar application e.g. Yahoo Calendar or Microsoft Outlook to be performed at a particular location. At this point the user chooses a date and time to set a reminder time to alert the user prior to the appointment. For example if the user has an appointment at 5 00 PM on the 23 of Dec. 2010 in Los Angeles then the reminder notifies the user for example 15 minutes prior to the appointment i.e. at 4 45 PM on the 23 of December.

Location can be defined in several ways not limited to but including base station identifiers latitude longitude coordinates and geographical mapping information such as names of cities regions countries landmarks sites e.g. home office etc.

At step a current location and a travel time is tracked. The current location may be tracked from a plurality of information. The information includes but is not limited to Global Positioning System GPS based information an Internet Protocol IP address triangulation information and a user inputted location.

In some embodiments the user device is a location aware device. The location aware device is capable of delivering information about the physical location of the user device to another user or an application. Examples of location aware device include but are not limited to a GPS mobile phone General Packet Radio Services GPRS mobile phone and geo location tagging on a laptop.

The current location of the user is tracked from at least one of a GPS based location an IP address triangulation information and a user inputted location. The GPS based location can be obtained from any GPS equipped device. The IP address is a numerical label that is assigned to any device in a computer network that uses Internet Protocol for communication. In one implementation the IP address may be extracted from network packets during network browsing. In other implementations the IP address along with nearby wireless access points are gathered and sent to a geolocation service provider. The geolocation service provider then estimates the current location and is shared with the requesting device. Triangulation information is obtained from cellular communications and pinpoints the geographic position of the user. The user inputted location can be obtained when the user browses a website and opts to share the location details.

In some embodiments the current location of the user can be also tracked by Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi networks by comparing nearby Media Access Control MAC addresses. The MAC address is a unique hardware number assigned to a computer connected in a local area network LAN or any other network. In other embodiments the current location can also be tracked by Hypertext Markup Language HTML files viewed by the user while browsing the web. Further in other embodiments the current location of the user can also be tracked by using bluetooth or Radio frequency identification RFID based technologies. Bluetooth is an open wireless technology for exchanging data over short distances through short wavelength radio transmissions. RFID is a technology that uses communication through radio waves for the purpose of identification and tracking.

The travel time includes an estimated amount of time for the user to travel from the current location to the appointment location. Further the travel time takes into account at least one of a plurality of factors. The factors include mode of transportation traffic conditions and time of day. Mode of transportation can be any substantial way to perform transport for example aviation road transport and rail transport. Traffic conditions signify the intensity of transportation movements. The time of day corresponds to changes in time zone from the current location to the appointment location.

In one embodiment consider a user of a laptop in India. The user sets a reminder for an appointment. The user now travels to the United States before the occurrence of the appointment. The corresponding difference in time zones between India and the United States is computed to determine the travel time.

In another embodiment a user logs into a desktop at location A in California. The user sets a reminder for an appointment and then moves to another location B in California. The user now logs into another desktop at location B. The travel time can be readjusted according to location B . Other changes in travel time can be affected by changing traffic conditions flight delays weather and the like.

At this point the appointment location and the current location are sent to a mapping application. In response the mapping application computes the travel time. In some embodiments the travel time can be computed using Yahoo Maps Google maps or Yahoo Calendar application. The travel time is then sent to the user device.

At step the reminder time is adjusted to accommodate the travel time. The travel time is added to the reminder time dynamically. In one embodiment a reminder time only includes travel time i.e. user has not set a reminder period prior to the appointment time .

In one embodiment a user logs in at a first personal computer PC at a first location. A first adjusted reminder time is set. Subsequently the user logs in at a second PC at a second location. A second updated adjusted reminder time is set to override the first adjusted time reminder. In another embodiment the event reminder can be manually adjusted.

At step an event reminder is activated in accordance with the adjusted reminder time. The event reminder can be locally displayed to the user. Examples of reminders include a pop up box on a display an e mail a text message an audible chirp an automated telephone call or any other technique for attracting user attention e.g. temporarily dimming ambient lighting . In other embodiments the adjusted reminders can be exported to other applications e.g. a networked alarm clock .

At step log on credentials are received from a user. The user may further attempt to access a part of the web site that includes private information such as financial data or personal e mail messages e.g. Yahoo Mail . At this point the user may be required to enter log on credentials consisting of a user name and a password as verification.

At step a list of upcoming appointments is requested. The list comprises of a sequence of appointments created by the user. The appointments can occur in various locations. In one embodiment appointments can be imported from another application or wirelessly synchronized.

At step a current location and a travel time is tracked. The current location may be tracked from a plurality of information. The information includes but is not limited to GPS based information an IP address triangulation information and a user inputted location.

The travel time includes an estimated amount of time for the user to travel from the current location to the appointment location. Further the travel time takes into account at least one of a plurality of factors. The factors include mode of transportation traffic conditions and time of day.

At this point the appointment location and the current location are sent to a mapping application. In response the mapping application computes the travel time. In some embodiments the travel time can be computed using Yahoo Maps Google maps or Yahoo Calendar application. The application can be integrated by a service provider or communication by use of APIs Application Programming Interfaces . The travel time is then sent to the user device.

At step the reminder time is adjusted to accommodate the travel time. The travel time is added to the reminder time dynamically. In one embodiment a user is queried to verify the adjusted reminder time.

At step an event reminder is activated in accordance with the adjusted reminder time. The event reminder can be locally displayed to the user.

The user makes an attempt to access a part of a web site that includes private information such as financial data or personal e mail messages e.g. Yahoo Mail . At this point the user may be required to enter log on credentials consisting of a user name and a password as verification. The log on credentials is received from the user by the log on credentials . The log on credentials is then sent to an interface module .

The interface module e.g. a graphical user interface receives the log on credentials. Further the interface module also receives enters an appointment. The appointment is associated with an appointment location and a reminder time. The appointment location signifies a geographic location area region city country etc. at which the appointment would take place. The reminder time is the time at which the user desires to be alerted about the upcoming appointment.

In one embodiment the interface module receives the log on credentials for a calendar application. With the log on credentials details the interface module requests a list of upcoming appointments from the calendar application.

The details of the appointment location and the reminder time are then sent to a timer module . The timer module is coupled in communication to the interface module and tracks the current location of the user. Further the timer module tracks a travel time for the user to reach the appointment location.

The timer module includes a GPS based location module and an appointment location module . The GPS based location module obtains information of a GPS based location. Similarly the appointment location module stores the appointment location details. The appointment location and the current location are then sent to a mapping application . The mapping application computes the travel time for the user to reach the appointment location and sends the travel time to the travel time module .

The reminder time is adjusted with the travel time. An event reminder is then activated in accordance with the adjusted reminder time. The user now is alerted about the appointment with travel time taken into account. This enables the user to reach the appointment location on time.

The interface module displays the event reminder and further configures a calendar application in accordance with the event reminder.

In some embodiments the interface module and the timer module are located on one of a mobile device a smart cellular telephone a PDA Personal Desktop Assistant a laptop device or a personal computer.

In one embodiment the current location of the user can be obtained from the IP address of the computing device that the user handles. illustrates the technology of obtaining the current location form the IP address.

In another embodiment the current location of the user can be obtained from triangulation information as shown in

In yet another embodiment the current location of the user can be obtained from the user inputted information as shown in

The timer module tracks the current location of the user on receiving one of a GPS based location an IP address triangulation information and a user inputted location.

The computing device can be for example a PC a stationary computing device a laptop or notebook computer a tablet computer a smart phone or PDA a smart appliance or any other suitable processor based device. In one embodiment the computing device is a location aware device. The location aware device is capable of signaling the corresponding physical location of the computing device . Additional embodiments of the computing device are described in more detail below.

The mapping application receives information corresponding to the current location of the user device and the appointment location. Upon receiving the information the mapping application computes the travel time for the user in order to reach the appointment location form the current location. The travel time is then sent to the timer module .

The calendar application can be remotely located and manages a plurality of appointments of the user. In one embodiment the calendar application may also be located in the computing device . In another embodiment the calendar application can be integrated with the mapping application .

In some embodiments the timer module the calendar application and the mapping application can be located in the computing device.

The bus can be soldered to one or more motherboards. The processor can be a general purpose processor an application specific integrated circuit ASIC an FPGA Field Programmable Gate Array a RISC Reduced Instruction Set Controller processor an integrated circuit or the like. There can be a single core multiple cores or more than one processor. In one embodiment the processor is specially suited for the processing demands of location aware reminders e.g. custom micro code instruction fetching pipelining or cache sizes . The processor can be disposed on silicon or any other suitable material. In operation the processor can receive and execute instructions and data stored in the memory or the hard drive . The hard drive can be a platter based storage device a flash drive an external drive a persistent memory device or any other type of memory.

The hard drive provides persistent i.e. long term storage for instructions and data. The I O port is an input output panel including a network card with an interface along with a keyboard controller a mouse controller and a GPS card . The network card can be for example a wired networking card e.g. a USB card or an IEEE 802.3 card a wireless networking card e.g. an IEEE 802.11 card or a Bluetooth card and a cellular networking card e.g. a 3G card . The interface is configured according to networking compatibility. For example a wired networking card includes a physical port to plug in a cord and a wireless networking card includes an antennae. The network card provides access to a communication channel on a network. The keyboard controller can be coupled to a physical port e.g. PS 2 or USB port for connecting a keyboard. The keyboard can be a standard alphanumeric keyboard with 101 or 104 keys including alphabetic numerical and punctuation keys a space bar modifier keys etc. a laptop or notebook keyboard a thumb sized keyboard a virtual keyboard or the like. The mouse controller can also be coupled to a physical port e.g. mouse or USB port . The GPS card provides communication to GPS satellites operating in space to receive location data. An antenna provides radio communications or alternatively a data port can receive location information from a peripheral device .

The memory can be a RAM Random Access Memory a flash memory a non persistent memory device or any other device capable of storing program instructions being executed. The memory comprises an OS module along with a timer module . In other embodiments the memory comprises a calendar application that manages a plurality of appointments. The OS module can be one of the Microsoft Windows family of operating systems e.g. Windows 95 98 Me Windows NT Windows 2000 Windows XP Windows XP x64 Edition Windows Vista Windows CE Windows Mobile Linux HP UX UNIX Sun OS Solaris Mac OS X Alpha OS AIX IRIX32 or IRIX64.

The timer module can be implemented in the memory as shown have hardware assist or be implemented completely in hardware. In one embodiment the timer module takes travel time into account to adjust event reminders in a calendaring application as discussed herein.

In other embodiments the timer module can be implemented to adjust other time based events besides appointments. For example when a printer cartridge is nearing the end of its useful lifecycle the timer module can calculate the time needed to order parts in addition to the time to failure. As a result a reminder to replace the printer cartridge can be deployed with ordering time taking into account. In still other embodiments the timer module can be implemented into an automobile reminder system for oil changes or service and adjust the associated reminders for an estimated wait for an appointment. In one example the timer module can be networked to access an appointment schedule from a preferred dealer.

As described herein computer software products may be written in any of various suitable programming languages such as C C C Pascal Fortran Perl Matlab from MathWorks SAS SPSS JavaScript AJAX and Java. The computer software product may be an independent application with data input and data display modules. Alternatively the computer software products may be classes that may be instantiated as distributed objects. The computer software products may also be component software such as Java Beans from Sun Microsystems or Enterprise Java Beans EJB from Sun Microsystems . Many of the functionalities described herein can be implemented in computer software computer hardware or a combination.

Furthermore the computer that is running the previously mentioned computer software may be connected to a network and may interface to other computers using this network. The network may be an intranet internet or the Internet among others. The network may be a wired network e.g. using copper telephone network packet network an optical network e.g. using optical fiber or a wireless network or any combination of these. For example data and other information may be passed between the computer and components or steps of a system of the invention using a wireless network using a protocol such as Wi Fi IEEE standards 802.11 802.11a 802.11b 802.11e 802.11g 802.11i and 802.11n just to name a few examples . For example signals from a computer may be transferred at least in part wirelessly to components or other computers.

It is to be understood that although various components are illustrated herein as separate entities each illustrated component represents a collection of functionalities which can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of these. Where a component is implemented as software it can be implemented as a standalone program but can also be implemented in other ways for example as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a kernel loadable module as one or more device drivers or as one or more statically or dynamically linked libraries.

As will be understood by those familiar with the art the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the portions modules agents managers components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats.

Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the portions modules agents managers components functions procedures actions layers features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Of course wherever a component of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a script as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate scripts and or programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment.

Furthermore it will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the relevant art that where the present invention is implemented in whole or in part in software the software components thereof can be stored on computer readable media as computer program products. Any form of computer readable medium can be used in this context such as magnetic or optical storage media. Additionally software portions of the present invention can be instantiated for example as object code or executable images within the memory of any programmable computing device.

Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

