---

title: Systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of a gas
abstract: Systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point of an atomic or molecular medium are provided herein. A system may include: a transmission cell containing a gas and configured to transmit light from the laser, the gas having an absorption spectrum with an isoclinic point; a photodiode generating an output based on an amplitude of transmitted laser light; and circuitry configured to tune the frequency of the laser to the isoclinic point of the absorption spectrum based on the output. The absorption spectrum may have first and second overlapping peaks respectively corresponding to first and second transitions of the gas, the isoclinic point being a saddle point between the first and second peaks. The first and second peaks may have substantially equal amplitude as one another and/or may broaden substantially equally as each other as a function of a physical parameter of the gas.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08050301&OS=08050301&RS=08050301
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08050301
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100209
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. N66001 09 C 2058 awarded by DARPA. The government has certain rights in the invention.

This application generally relates to systems and methods for stabilizing the frequency of a laser based on a feature in the absorption spectrum of a gas.

As is known to those of skill in the art the frequency of light generated by a laser may change over time. For example changes in temperature may change the cavity length of the laser or variations in the driver current of diode lasers may cause the frequency to change rapidly. Because of such variations it may be useful to stabilize the frequency in certain systems.

One system in which frequency stabilization may be useful is ultraminiature atomic physics UAP in which diode lasers are routinely used for spectroscopy and or optical pumping. The chip scale atomic clock and the chip scale atomic magnetometer are examples of UAP systems. Such systems are based on precision spectroscopy aimed at generating and accurately probing an atomic interaction over millimeter or smaller scales. One constraint for such systems however is that their overall size and power may be severely constrained. Moreover the atomic phenomena may occur under physical conditions that may bring new and sometimes significant dimensions to the atomic physics as compared to macroscopic laboratory experiments. As such the stability of the laser frequency in some circumstances may be critical not only because variations in frequency yield variations in the spectroscopic signals of interest but also because shifts in laser frequency may alter the atoms energy level structure through the light shift effect e.g. the ac Stark shift .

In UAP as well other types of laser based systems the laser frequency may be stabilized by locking the laser to an absorption line of an atomic gas. schematically illustrates a prior art system for stabilizing the frequency of a laser by locking the laser to an atomic absorption line. System includes laser gas cell photodiode PD and controller circuitry . Laser generates light of frequency which is transmitted through gas cell . Gas cell contains a gas having an absorption spectrum characterized by one or more peaks corresponding to atomic or molecular transitions. As the light from laser transmits through cell the light may interact with one or more transitions of the gas within cell . Specifically if the frequency of the laser light is resonant or near resonant with a transition at frequency then that transition which appears as a peak in the absorption spectrum of the gas will at least partially absorb the laser light. Such an absorption reduces the irradiance of light transmitted through cell . Thus the closer the laser frequency is to the absorption peak of the gas the lower the transmitted irradiance. The photodiode measures the irradiance of the transmitted light and generates an output that is fed into controller circuitry . Based on the output of photodiode controller circuitry determines whether laser frequency is on resonance with the transition i.e. is at the peak of the absorption line for that transition and if not the circuitry sends an appropriate signal to laser to cause the laser to bring closer to resonance. Photodiode then measures the irradiance of the new frequency of laser light transmitted through cell and the output is provided to circuitry which may send further signals to laser to bring still closer to resonance if required. In other words a feedback loop may be used to lock laser to a peak in the absorption spectrum of the gas within cell .

Specifically the frequency difference between the laser frequency and the frequency absorption peak may be modulated which causes modulation in the irradiance measured by photodiode . The output of the photodiode provides a dispersive shaped error signal positive voltage when negative voltage when 

As is familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art circuitry may include a lock in amplifier that generates a sinusoidal signal and a current controller that controls the driver current of laser . The lock in amplifier provides the sinusoidal signal to the current controller causing the current controller to sinusoidally vary the driver current of laser about a central current selected to generate frequency . This sinusoidal current variation causes the laser frequency to vary sinusoidally about frequency typically by a relatively small amount. The sinusoidal variation about frequency causes the irradiance of light transmitted through cell to similarly vary sinusoidally as the variation periodically brings the frequency closer or further from the absorption peak . Photodiode records the sinusoidal variations in the irradiance of transmitted light and the photodiode output is provided to the lock in amplifier. The lock in amplifier carries on board circuitry that locks to the sinusoidally varying output signal. The current controller may then vary the central current so as to bring the central frequency closer to the absorption peak which will be detected as a decreased signal at the photodiode . For further details see the following references the entire contents of each of which are incorporated by reference herein Weel et al. Can. J. Phys. 80 1449 1458 2002 Furuta et al. Appl. Opt. 28 17 3737 3743 1989 Akiyama et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 833 681 Telle U.S. Pat. No. 5 553 087 and Tetu et al. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 40 2 191 195 1991 .

In one example the gas within cell is hydrogen cyanide HCN the absorption spectrum of which has a series of several spaced peaks between about 1525 1565 nm that correspond to rotational vibrational transitions. Laser may be locked to any one of these peaks. In another example the gas within cell is rubidium 87 Rb which may be successfully employed with a significantly lower vapor pressure e.g. 2 10torr than hydrogen cyanide e.g. about 10 torr resulting in essentially collisionless conditions. As known to those of ordinary skill in the art Rbhas four Delectronic transitions illustrated in corresponding to peaks A B C and D in the atomic absorption spectrum of Rbat 35 C. illustrated in . Specifically Rbhas four hyperfine electronic transitions 5S F 2 to 5P F 1 corresponding to peak A 5S F 2 to 5P F 2 corresponding to peak B 5S F 1 to 5P F 1 corresponding to peak C and S F 1 to 5P F 2 corresponding to peak D. Note that although each of the transitions is characterized by a single frequency the corresponding peak in the absorption spectrum is somewhat broadened because of Doppler broadening leading to overlap between the peaks. The x axis of laser detuning refers to the frequency by which laser may be detuned from the center of gravity of the optical spectrum 3.77 10Hz to match the absorption feature in the drawing.

As illustrated in the laser is typically locked to frequency which corresponds to the 5S F 1 to 5P F 2 electronic transition the maximum of peak D . This frequency is typically selected because of the four illustrated absorption peaks A D peak D overlaps the least with an adjacent peak peak C . However as is familiar to those of ordinary skill in the art the presence of overlapping peaks in the absorption spectrum pulls the laser frequency away from the true center of the desired peak. The breadth of each of peaks A D may vary as a function of the gas temperature due to Doppler broadening and the relative amplitude of the peaks may also vary as a function of the gas temperature because of the nonlinear nature of resonant absorption e.g. because of Beer Lambert exponential attenuation. As the breadths and or heights of the different peaks change the amount of overlap and thus the amount of pulling may also increase or decrease with temperature and as a consequence the peaks of the absorption lines may shift with the vapor s temperature. Note that according to the Beer Lambert law the transmitted irradiance I is equal to Ie where N is the number density of atoms or molecules in the gas is the absorption cross section and L is the gas length. The shape of the absorption spectrum e.g. I versus the laser frequency will mimic the shape of the absorption cross section a for optically thin gases where N L

One way of reducing the change in the locking frequency is sub Doppler spectroscopy. In such a technique the apparent Doppler broadening is reduced by irradiating gas cell with overlapping counter propagating laser beams. Each of the counter propagating beams experiences an opposite Doppler shift as the other canceling out the Doppler broadening effect. For further details see Schawlow Rev. Mod. Phys. 54 3 697 707 1982 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein. However sub Doppler spectroscopy may not be available to eliminate all sources of pulling. For example it may be preferable to use linear absorption spectroscopy instead of sub Doppler spectroscopy for UAP. Specifically linear spectroscopy allows for simplicity and thereby compactness of design. Further without the need of overlapped counter propagating beams these is less sensitivity to microphonics. Additionally although sub Doppler spectroscopy may reduce pulling due to Doppler broadening it is ineffective to reduce pulling resulting from other types of broadening such as pressure broadening.

Embodiments of the invention provide systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of a gas. An isoclinic point is defined to be a wavelength wavenumber or frequency at which the first derivative of an absorption spectrum of a sample does not change upon a chemical reaction or physical change of the sample. For many of the systems and methods disclosed herein the isoclinic point is a point in the absorption spectrum of a gas that falls in between two overlapping absorption peaks of substantially equal amplitude and which experience substantially the same broadening as a function of a physical parameter e.g. as a function of temperature or pressure. Because the two peaks have substantially equal amplitude as one another the isoclinic point is a saddle point local minimum in the region of overlap between the two peaks. As the peaks are evenly broadened due to a change in the physical parameter the frequency of the isoclinic point does not significantly change but instead remains at substantially constant frequency independent of the physical parameter. As such by locking the laser to the frequency of the isoclinic point the laser is significantly less susceptible to frequency variations than if the laser were locked to an absorption peak as was done in the prior art.

Under one aspect a system for stabilizing the frequency of a tunable frequency laser includes a transmission cell containing a gas and configured to transmit light from the laser the gas having an absorption spectrum with an isoclinic point a photodiode configured to generate an output based on an irradiance of laser light transmitted through the cell and circuitry configured to tune the frequency of the laser to the isoclinic point of the absorption spectrum based on the output.

In some embodiments the absorption spectrum has first and second peaks respectively corresponding to first and second transitions of the gas the first and second peaks overlapping with one another the isoclinic point being a saddle point between the first and second peaks. The first and second peaks may have substantially equal amplitude as one another. The first and second peaks may broaden substantially equally with each other as a function of a physical parameter of the gas. The physical parameter may include temperature or pressure. The gas may include an atomic gas and the first and second transitions may be electronic transitions of atoms in the gas. The atomic gas may for example include an alkali selected from the group consisting of Rb Li Na K and K. In one embodiment a fractional frequency of the isoclinic point varies by about 1.0 10or less per degree Celsius.

In some embodiments the circuitry includes a lock in amplifier configured to receive the output of the photodiode and to generate an error signal based on the output and a controller in operable communication with the laser and the lock in amplifier the controller configured to tune the frequency of the laser so as to minimize the error signal. The controller may tune the frequency of the laser by adjusting a driver current of the laser.

Under another aspect a method of stabilizing the frequency of a tunable frequency laser may include transmitting light from the laser through a cell containing a gas the gas having an absorption spectrum with an isoclinic point measuring an irradiance of the laser light transmitted through the cell and based on the measured irradiance tuning the frequency of the laser to the isoclinic point of the absorption spectrum.

Embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for stabilizing laser frequency based on an isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of a gas. As noted above prior art systems for stabilizing laser frequency have typically been based on locking the laser frequency to an absorption peak of a gas. However such a peak may be susceptible to pulling caused by lineshape overlap due to Doppler broadening which can vary the frequency of the peak and the laser as a function of temperature. By comparison the present inventors have recognized that the absorption spectra of some gases contain isoclinic points to which the laser can be locked and that do not substantially change in frequency as a function of physical system parameters such as temperature or pressure. As used herein an isoclinic point is defined as a wavelength wavenumber or frequency at which the first derivative of an absorption spectrum of a sample does not change upon a chemical reaction or physical change of the sample. Such a definition is the same as that defined by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry IUPAC see 2ed. the Gold Book Oxford 1997 .

As described below the inventors have discovered that isoclinic points exist for alkali atoms with nuclear spin I equal to 3 2 and that the frequencies of these isoclinic points are effectively independent of gas temperature. That is the derivative d dT at the isoclinic point is spectroscopically insignificant where is the frequency at the isoclinic point and T is the gas temperature. The sensitivity of the alkali s isoclinic points to laser linewidth and optical pumping efficiency are also discussed further below. The practical conclusion is that isoclinic points in the spectra of alkali atoms may be useful reference frequencies for precision spectroscopy or laser frequency stabilization effectively eliminating slow temperature variations as a source of spectroscopic signal instability in UAP or other applications in which it is desirable to lock a laser to a frequency. It should be appreciated that although the discussion below is primarily directed to gases containing alkali atoms that other types of atoms or molecules including those in non gas states may also have absorption spectra with isoclinic points to which a laser can be locked. As such the present invention applies to any system having an isoclinic point.

In one embodiment the gas is Rb. is a plot of the calculated absorption spectrum of Rbin the region of absorption peaks A and B at a temperature of 35 C. Similar to described above the frequency of the center of gravity of is set to zero. As described in greater detail below peaks A and B of Rbcorrespond to 5S F 2 to 5P F 1 and the 5S F 2 to 5P F 2 transitions overlap with one another due to Doppler broadening have equal amplitude as one another and broaden substantially equally as one another as a function of temperature again due to Doppler broadening. As such the sum of the two peaks has an isoclinic point that is positioned equidistant between peaks A and B and is a local minimum between the peaks. If the temperature of the gas fluctuates then the breadth of peaks A and B may vary because of Doppler broadening. However the lateral frequency position of isoclinic point will remain substantially the same because the lateral frequency shift from each of the two peaks will cancel each other out. Instead only a vertical shift in the position of isoclinic point will occur. As the frequency of isoclinic point is substantially insensitive to temperature it can be used as a laser lock frequency to provide significantly greater stability than other points in the absorption spectrum. For example as described above with respect to if the maximum peak D were instead selected for the laser lock frequency then if the temperature of the gas fluctuates causing a change in the breadth and or amplitude of peaks C and D then the varying amount of overlap between peaks C and D would pull the laser lock frequency away from that maximum causing instability in the laser lock frequency.

The laser and cell may be arranged substantially as illustrated in . The laser may be any suitable laser including a continuous wave CW or pulsed laser the frequency of which is tunable via any suitable mechanism. For example the laser may be a diode laser the frequency of which is tunable by adjusting the temperature of the diodes and or by adjusting the driver current applied to the diodes. A control module for making such adjustments may be internal to the laser or may be external. In some embodiments the frequency of the laser is tuned by adjusting the driver current applied to the diodes using a suitable controller. Preferably the laser is tunable through a variety of frequencies that correspond to one or more features of the absorption spectrum of the gas including the isoclinic point. It should be noted that because different gases may have isoclinic points in widely different regions of the spectrum the type of laser and the type of gas used in cell may be co selected to respectively provide an output in the desired frequency range and an isoclinic point to which the laser frequency may be locked. In one embodiment laser is a vertical cavity surface emitting laser VCSEL the frequency of which may be controllably selected by appropriately adjusting the temperature and or driver current of the laser.

Referring again to the irradiance of laser light transmitted through the cell is then measured . As described above with reference to the transmitted irradiance depends among other things on the extent to which the laser light is absorbed by transitions of the gas. The transmitted irradiance can be measured for example using a suitable photodiode such as photodiode PD in .

Then based on the measured irradiance the frequency of the laser may be tuned to the isoclinic point in the absorption spectrum of the gas . The general mechanism for such tuning may for example be similar to that described above with reference to e.g. the frequency may be tuned using a feedback look that includes a lock in amplifier and a current controller. However it should be understood that while prior art systems have been directed to tuning the laser to the maximum of an absorption peak the systems and methods provided herein instead tune the laser to a seemingly counterintuitive position in the absorption spectrum a local minimum positioned between two equal amplitude absorption peaks. As described in greater detail below such a position is significantly less vulnerable to frequency changes as a function of physical parameters such as temperature or pressure than is the maximum of a peak.

A brief theoretical overview of the use of isoclinic points to address the problem of Doppler broadening will now be provided. Then the specific case of isoclinic points in the alkali atoms in particular Rb is provided including a consideration of the isoclinic point s sensitivity to the Rb Rbisotope ratio and laser linewidth. Finally an experimental investigation of the RbDtransition is discussed and the effects of optical pumping on the Disoclinic point described.

As noted above with respect to peaks corresponding to electronic transitions may be Doppler broadened leading to overlap that may cause a laser frequency to be pulled away from a desired frequency. To illustrate the problem more quantitatively consider two neighboring Doppler broadened transitions A and B such as those illustrated in where wis the Doppler broadened full width half maximum FWHM of either peak A or B. For a laser of frequency tuned near these absorption lines the irradiance I transmitted by a gas of length L can be expressed as exp 1 where is the cross section of the Jresonance and is the detuning from the true resonant frequency of the transition . Taking the derivative of Eq. 1 with respect to laser frequency and setting this equal to zero we find the extrema in the absorption spectrum 

Without wishing to be bound by any theory the inventors believe that the temperature dependence indicated by Eq. 4 may arise from the fact that near an absorption line s peak one of the cross section derivatives becomes effectively independent of temperature while the other retains its Doppler broadening temperature sensitivity. Conversely near the midpoint between the two resonances both derivatives are temperature dependent. In particular if is defined to be the frequency corresponding to the local extremum near the midpoint then for reasonably well resolved Doppler broadened absorption lines 

Notwithstanding the above discussion for precision spectroscopy it is important to note that isoclinic points are idealizations. Without wishing to be bound by any theory it is believed that no gas phase atomic or molecular spectral feature will ever be insensitive to a physical change of the sample to all orders. For example in real systems alkali isotopes often co exist and even in a vapor of pure Rbthere is always some fractional component of Rb e.g. 10 residual Rb with absorption lines E F that overlap albeit slightly those of Rb as illustrated in . This overlap implies that Eq. 1 may be augmented with a third absorption cross section complicating the simple argument leading to Eq. 5 . Moreover because single mode lasers may be dominated by white frequency fluctuations producing lorentzian laser spectra with corresponding long tails there also may be an interaction between Rbcontamination and laser linewidth. Finally an alignment among the ground state Zeeman sublevels produced by optical pumping may degrade the equality between the A and B cross sections thereby giving the isoclinic point an alternate path to temperature sensitivity. As noted above with respect to the presence of residual Rbmay cause the frequency of the isoclinic point to vary with temperature however the extent of such variation is expected to be significantly smaller than that for the maximum of an absorption peak. Issues associated with residual Rbare described in further detail below with reference to FIGS. and A B.

As may be derived from prior art atomic physics theory the peak cross section for a Dtransition in the alkalies i.e. excited and ground state electronic angular momenta Jand J respectively equal to originating from the

Note that because of the relatively low natural abundance of Rb it may be impracticable to completely isolate that isotope relative to Rb. As such as illustrated in the absorption spectrum of Rbgas may contain a small amount of Rb which exhibits absorption peaks E and F. Because the Rbpeak E overlaps slightly with Rbpeak B variations in the amplitude or breadth of peak E as a function of temperature may cause the laser lock frequency to pull away from isoclinic point as temperature varies. Using the above equations the frequency of the local extremum midway between the 5S F 2 5P F 1 2 absorption lines of Rb A and B in i.e. the isoclinic point may be calculated as a function of the relative Rbconcentration. Briefly the cross section for each transition may be computed at a given laser frequency including the Rbcontribution the cross sections summed to evaluate the Beer s law attenuation of the laser and finally the frequency determined near the midpoint where the derivative of the transmitted laser intensity is zero i.e. near the isoclinic point. The extent to which the frequency of this local extremum is insensitive to vapor temperature is a measure of how well the extremum approximates an ideal isoclinic point. As used herein the term isoclinic point may refer both to an ideal isoclinic point and to a non ideal isoclinic point of a real gas such as Rb.

Defining as the fractional abundance of Rbin the vapor N Rb N Rb N Rb the fractional frequency change of the extremum isoclinic point is illustrated in as a function of vapor temperature for 0.01 0.03 and 0.1. For comparative purposes the fractional frequency change of the local extremum corresponding to the peak of the 5S F 1 5P F 2 absorption line i.e. the maximum of peak D in is also illustrated. Of all the transitions in the RbDspectrum peak D is the most well isolated having a relatively small overlap with peak C. Note that as illustrated in even for a Rbabundance of 10 the temperature sensitivity of the local extremum near the midpoint of the A B transitions is two orders of magnitude smaller than that of the peak frequency associated with transition D. Consequently isotope ratio would appear to have little effect on the isoclinic nature of the midpoint extremum.

The same experiment was repeated but instead locking the laser frequency to isoclinic point illustrated in . The temperature of cell was again increased to 43 C. and allowed to cool to room temperature. illustrates the results of this experiment in which it can be seen that there is no perceptible change in the frequency of laser . Based on these results the temperature sensitivity of isoclinic point is estimated to be less than or equal to 25 kHz C. significantly lower that that for peak D. Note that the estimated temperature sensitivity of the isoclinic point is limited in this case by experimental error. Specifically the calibrated output of LIA merely provides an upper bound on the temperature sensitivity of any absorption feature in the DRbspectrum including that of the isoclinic point . Calibration of the output of LIA was obtained by tuning the laser frequency and measuring the output of LIA under open loop conditions. The temperature sensitivity of isoclinic point may be more accurately characterized using additional experiments

For example a similar experiment as above was used to more accurately determine the temperature sensitivity of both peak D and isoclinic point . The experiment used the same setup shown in except cell was replaced with a cell identical to cell . That is both cells and contained Rbwith up to 1 residual Rb. The temperature of cell was raised from 25 C. to 31 C. in 2 C. steps with enough time between temperature steps to equilibrate the temperature of cell . After the equilibration period the difference between the error signals output from LIA and LIA was recorded by Labview DAQ module for 100 seconds. This difference may be used as a measure of the frequency of laser using calibrations obtained under open loop conditions. This process was repeated for each temperature step. The results of this experiment are illustrated in FIG. where the shift in the fractional frequency y of laser is shown as a function of temperature of cell . The slope of the data in can be used to estimate the temperature sensitivity y T . For the isoclinic point the temperature sensitivity is estimated to be less than or equal to 1 10 C. For peak D the temperature sensitivity is estimated to be 4 10 C.

While preferred embodiments of the invention are described herein it will be apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made. The appended claims are intended to cover all such changes and modifications that fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

