---

title: Nonparametric mine line detection using spatial analysis
abstract: A mine line detection method to identify mine-like contacts (MLCs) that fit into mine line patterns dictated by standard mine laying protocol. In general, MLCs define a minefield where the minefield has both mines and false alarms. The method classifies every MLC into one of three classes: fixed—a mine line pattern with fixed mine spacing; random—a mine line pattern with random mine spacing; or false alarm—the MLC does not fit into a mine line pattern and is not considered a mine. The method requires no knowledge of either the sensor probability of detection (P) or probability of false alarm (P); nonetheless, it significantly improves both. A nonparametric anomaly detector identifies regions with unusually high MLC density for more detailed analysis. Suspected regions are analyzed for unusually regular patterns of MLCs. Probabilities that the observed target densities and target patterns could occur by chance are estimated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583573&OS=08583573&RS=08583573
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08583573
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101019
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to a method for detecting mines and in particular to a method of improving a sensor s probability of detection performance and the sensor s probability of false alarm performance.

Parametric methods index or label individual distributions within a particular family. For example there are an infinite number of normal distributions where each normal distribution is uniquely determined by its mean and standard deviation. If one specifies all of the parameters here mean and standard deviation then a unique normal distribution is specified. Statistical techniques are properly called parametric where they involve estimating or testing the value s of parameter s usually population means or proportions. In contrast nonparametric methods are procedures that work without reference to specific parameters.

Nonparametric procedures can be based on ranked data. Data are ranked by ordering them from lowest to highest and assigning them in order the integer values from 1 to the sample size.

For large samples nonparametric techniques can be viewed as the usual normal theory based procedures applied to ranks. For smaller sample sizes the same statistic or one mathematically equivalent to it is used but decisions regarding its significance are made by comparing the observed value to special tables of critical values.

Mine field sensor systems utilize a plurality of sensors to search classify and map SCM contacts in mine fields. The contacts can be mines or false alarms. A method that improves the analysis of a minefield as to the determination of contacts as to whether the detected contacts are mines or false alarms is needed. Furthermore improved spatial descriptions of the mine lines are needed where it is particularly advantageous if the analysis can be applied across the board to sensor systems having differing levels of performance and the improvement requires no knowledge of either the sensor probability of detection P or probability of false alarm P .

The invention is a method a mine sensor system and a computer program product that includes a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code embodied therein where the computer readable program code is adapted to be executed to implement a method for enhancing the detection of mines and mine lines using an algorithm that employs probabilistic spatial analysis of targets PSAT . The algorithm uses the spatial distribution of detected objects to determine the likelihood of mines present. The invention provides a list of targets likely to be mines rather than false alarms a list of detected mine lines and identifies unsearched areas likely to have mines present. The apparatus typically is inclusive of or in communication with a mine sensor. The mine SCM sensor system identifies mine like contacts MLCs as well as their physical location in a minefield. The algorithm classifies every MLC into one of three classes fixed the MLC fits into a mine line pattern with fixed mine spacing random the MLC fits into a mine line pattern with random mine spacing or false alarm the MLC does not fit into a mine line pattern and is subsequently not considered a mine.

The probabilistic spatial analysis of targets includes 1 calculating the probability that the observed number of targets occurred randomly in the mine line region formed by the two candidate points 2 analyzing statistically significant anomalies to classify a mine line as either fixed spaced or random 3 extending the line appropriately to capture any targets that fall on either side of the line due to incorrect end point selection and 4 as the mine line detection proceeds using bookkeeping protocols to keep track of the MLC classifications.

Advantages of the invention include the invention does not require knowledge of the sensor s probability of detection performance nor knowledge of the sensor s probability of false alarm performance and the invention accommodates if available the confidence values that the detected targets are mines. The invention extends detected mine lines when appropriate and confidence values are typically provided from Computer Aided Detection Classification algorithms CAD CAC . The invention creates and utilizes a novel determination of the probability that an anomalous mine count is from a fixed spaced mine line.

The invention in one aspect is a methodology that enhances the performance of an apparatus that searches classifies and maps SCM such as a minefield sensor system having the capability of classifying mine like contacts MLCs and detecting mine lines.

The methodology employs probabilistic spatial analysis of targets PSAT . Nonparametric anomaly analysis first identifies regions with unusually high MLC density for more detailed analysis then PSAT is used to screen all possible mine lines. The analysis includes calculating the probability that the observed number of targets e.g. mines mine like contacts occurred randomly in a mine line region formed by two candidate points P P .

Second statistically significant anomalies are then further analyzed to classify the mine line as either fixed spaced or random. Fixed spaced mine lines are characterized by spatial features in that with fixed spaced mine lines the distance between mines is substantially fixed and fixed spaced mine lines do not intersect. This spatial characterization is derived largely because of navigational constraints on a water borne vessel when laying a minefield using a ship. An air borne vessel is not so constrained and mine lines can intersect.

Third once PSAT probabilistic spatial analysis of targets concludes that a candidate target pair does in fact form a mine line of known type PSAT then extends the line appropriately to capture any targets that fall on either side of candidate line due to incorrect end point selection.

Finally as the mine line detection proceeds various bookkeeping protocols keep track of the MLC mine like contacts classifications. Regression analysis can be used to fine tune the end point selection.

First the Initial Area Analysis selects two candidate points. The pair of candidate points spatially define a line where each point correlates to a position of a detected target MLC on a target list. The target list is typically generated by the SCM sensor system however other sources can contribute to this list and the source of the target list is not limited to the SCM sensor system. The pair of points represents candidate endpoints of a mine line. If N is the number of detections N N 1 2 is the number of unique endpoint pairs i.e. 4 points has 6 possible unique endpoint pairs 5 points has 10 possible unique endpoint pairs . To reduce the number of pairs for consideration all pairs closer than a minimum line length or farther apart than a maximum length are removed. The initial area analysis then evaluates those remaining pairs as candidate endpoints to a mine line.

In the analysis the minimum mine line length is a product estimated by taking the minimum mine spacing parameter for a fixed spaced mine line and multiplying it by a minimum number of mine cells required to form a mine line. A mine cell in the illustrated embodiment is a rectangular area immediately surrounding a spatially specific target. The product gives the minimum length line that a selected algorithm can analyze. The maximum length is read from the parameter file. The maximum size is not the upper limit of detectable lines but rather a means of limiting the number of potential target pairs in the pool of candidate end points. The initial estimate of the likelihood that the targets P P are an available pair of targets on a segment of the same mine line is a function of the number of detections that lie on or near the line between the pair P P and the number of detections in a similar adjacent comparison area.

Additionally PSAT calculates the probability of randomly obtaining a target count in the test area TA that is smaller than the observed value. This probability calculation is the binomial cumulative distribution function and is calculated using the binomial probabilty cumulative distribution function with the following parameters probability p equal to one half N the total number of false targets equal to the observed target count in the test area TA plus the observed target count in the control area CA and k observed false target count in the test area TA . These calculations are performed for each available pair of mine line end points. The pairs with the highest probability of obtaining a count smaller than the observed count are identified. If this probability referred to as BestCT is less than or equal to a predetermined cutoff value for instance 0.95 then no pairs are likely candidates for mine line members. The remaining pairs that exceed BestCT are now considered candidate mine lines. From all the identified candidate pairs that exceed BestCT the ones with the largest value k are selected first for further analysis. Larger k values are evidence that a pair is more likely to be a mine line. Therefore this helps insure that the best pairs are examined first. At this point in the analysis there are still quite a few pairs in the list for consideration and many of these pairs have identical k values. When a k value tie exists the pair in the list whose points form the longest line are examined first. Therefore if two candidate pairs have the same number of intervening targets k then the candidate pair with the longest line is examined first albeit this is not a limitation. Contact confidence values provide a probability that a target is in fact a mine and are sometimes available. When contact confidence values are available in addition to counts the calculations become more complicated depending on the target count. For small target counts 15 or less the method can simply enumerate every possible outcome of total target confidence scores inside the test area. Since the scores of false targets should be randomly assigned the method can use the list to calculate the statistical likelihood of observing a score sum as large as the total score for targets within the test area from false targets alone.

For larger target counts it is not practical to list every possible outcome. Instead to account for the target scores the sum of scores inside the test area is normalized by the mean score over both areas TA and CA . This has the effect of biasing the count in cases where a large number of relatively high confidence targets lie in one area or the other. In practice for the large count case the target scores add little value to the calculation. This is not unexpected as these are for the most part simply sums of independent identically distributed random variables with finite variance and are therefore very well behaved. The binomial distribution is used to calculate the probability of obtaining the observed scores from false targets alone. The value assigned to each pair is the probability of obtaining a target count less than that observed. Note if this value is large it indicates that there are too many targets between the members of the pair to be a purely random occurrence and therefore are mines.

At this point in the analysis there is enough information to estimate a posterior probability likelihood prior probability where the posterior probability confirms that the best candidate pair of points defines a mine line. Recall the highest probability of obtaining a count smaller than the observed count is BestCT then the probability of a target count as large as that observed given that there is no mine line is 1 BestCT. Since mine lines are likely to contain many mines we assume that it is highly probable that a mine line would have a target count as large as the observed detected by SCM sensor system or supplied from another source . For the prior probability that a randomly chosen pair of points fall on the same line we use a conservative estimate of 0.05. The prior probability which was based on the line defined by the initial point pair P P could be improved with information about likely mine line positions accurate false target rate estimates or accurate mine count estimates. In summary we now have no mine line 1 BestCT 1 mine line 1 2 mine line 0.05 3 where X equals target count in test area.

From these the probability of the observed count is mine line mine line no mine line 1 mine line 4 If p X is non zero then no mine line no mine line 1 mine line 5 Calculating the posterior probability results in mine line 1 no mine line 0.05 1 0.95BestCT 6 

If the value for p mine line X is greater than the minimum probability p defined in the parameter file for the current depth see Table 1 the pair in question is likely to define a mine line. Otherwise another candidate pair of points is selected for analysis.

As previously enumerated the posterior probability confirms that a candidate pair of points defines a mine line. The requirements for confirmation includes a detailed probability analysis by PSAT. The PSAT analysis evaluates all possible intra mine spacings. To evaluate all possible intra mine spacings requires a number of values derived from the various target counts and positions including determining a Count where the Count is the number of contacts in the random mine line area between P and P TA in determining a CountSmall where the CountSmall is the number of contacts in the fixed mine line test area between P and P determining a Expmaxgap where Expmaxgap is the largest distance along the line between any two contacts in the random line region and determining a SumSmall where the SumSmall is the sum of the confidence scores of targets within the fixed mine line test area.

The analysis characterizes detected anomalies and classifies the mine line as a random mine line a fixed spacing mine line or upon further analysis the method could eliminate it from consideration. As fixed spacing mine lines provide the most information the first step is to try to find a spacing for the mines. The range of possible mine spacing for the current depth is given in the parameter file see Table 1 . The spacing parameters widen as the depth of the minefield increases. For under 40 feet the minimum mine spacing is 20 meters and the maximum is 120 meters for 40 to 100 feet the range is 70 300 and for 100 to 200 feet the range is 150 to 610. Note the mine spacing ranges overlap. Currently the spacing is assumed to be uniformly distributed over all possible values. The reader is reminded that there are 3.28 feet in a meter. More exotic distributions can be used if they are available.

Referring to the candidate mine line has a length and a width . The illustrated candidate mine line length is defined by the points P and P. Assuming P and P are mines in a line with fixed spacing within a defined positioning error there are only a finite number of possible values for where is the distance between consecutive targets along the mine line. Let dp be the distance between P and P. Then ignoring positioning error dp is an integer multiple of . Since the minimum and maximum values of are known there are upper and lower bounds for the integer max 01 minimum and min 01 maximum 7 

The true value of must be of the form dp for n between Nmax and Nmin inclusive. Note only a minimum value of is required to guarantee that only finitely many values are possible.

In this case the originally planned spacing for the mine line would exactly match a member of the above set very infrequently because deployment of mines is imprecise and they will move around slightly after being deployed. However it must be within the error in positioning for P and P combined with the error in the SCM sensor system system s estimate of the position of P and P. This is addressed by expanding the allowable positions for the intermediate targets. Targets from fixed spacing lines are considered to lie in cells . Four cells are shown. The size of these cells is defined in the input parameter file for the current depth. In Table 1 the rectangular cell dimensions length and area shown in hatching of the cell are expressed in relative terms of the standard deviation of the mine line length . Using relative dimension terms accommodates for the depth. The cell size is chosen to account for the original target positioning errors and the errors on the measured positions.

As shown in the fixed spacing mine line between P and P should have a mine in each cell and no mines outside of cells. Due to undetected mines and false alarms this situation would rarely be directly observed. Therefore the posterior probability of a fixed spaced line is calculated using the current observations as illustrated. For each possible value of the methodology determines the number of cells Ncells in the mine line the number of cells containing contacts NcellsWithMines the sums of the confidences for the highest confidence target in each cell in case more than one target lies in a cell CellsConfSum and the number of contacts not falling onto cells NFalseAlarms .

Typically the next step would be to calculate the probability of the observed counts given the true value of . This however requires knowledge of the SCM sensor system s performance. The questions of what is the probability of detecting NcellsWithMines targets from Ncells and what is the probability of NFalseAlarms over the area of interest require knowledge of the SCM sensor system s sensor Probability of Detection Pd and False Alarm Rate FAR rates. Given those values it would be possible to sum over all possible combinations of mines and false targets to calculate the exact probability of the observed counts given the various spacings. To limit the need for this prior information a relatively weak assumption is made given that this is a mine line more mines will be detected within the cells than false targets. The stated requirements for a fixed spacing mine line are then used to devise a measure for comparison of the possible s using the available data observations.

In the invention there is more than one approach to determine the most probable value for . Given the number of filled cells for a given there is the probability of randomly choosing a contact and finding it within a cell and the probability of randomly choosing a cell and finding a contact in it. The probabilities for success for these two Bernoulli experiments are given by the measure of how well the cells cover the contacts cellsWithMines CountSmall 8 and the measure of how well the targets fill the cells cellsWithMines Ncells 9 

Neither of these equations 8 9 alone captures both the requirements for the perfect to cover all the targets and fill all the cells. Since both requirements are necessary and since when conditioned on the value of NcellsWithMines the Bernoulli trials described above are independent the product of the two measures does capture both the requirements 

After the most likely choice for is selected the number of cells in the candidate mine line can be deduced. Also the number of filled cells can be observed. Recall that all cells are identical in length and width furthermore the conditions under which the SCM sensor observed all of the cells in the mine line are assumed to be identical. Therefore it is reasonable to assume that the probability pd of the SCM sensor detecting a mine in any of the cells for the current mine line is the same for all of the cells and the probability of detecting a false alarm pfa in any of the cells is the same. Under these assumptions the distribution of filled cells is a combinatoric problem. One of the largest issues for the mine line analysis is the accidental combination of multiple lines. This is characterized by an unusually large gap between targets somewhere along the line. Letting C a b represent combinations of a objects taken b at a time the probability of obtaining at least one gap between targets as large as MaxGap given that there are Ncells possible target locations and NcellsWithMines are filled is given in equation 12 . MaxGap cells MaxGap 1 cells MaxGap cellsWithMines cells cellsWithMines 12 

The P fixed X mineline value is used with P MaxGap to determine the likelihood that P and P define a fixed spacing mine line. If P fixed X mineline is greater than pmin defined in the parameter file and P MaxGap is greater than pgap also defined in the parameter file then the posterior probability of a fixed line is given in Equation 13. fixed fixed mineline mineline 13 Thus the posterior probability of a random line is random mineline fixed 14 

If either P MaxGap or P fixed X mineline is too small or if there were no valid s for analysis then the method assigns all the mine line probability to the randomly spaced mine line case. random mineline 15 

The posterior probability is then used to determine the classification of the mine line. If the line fails to be classified the only modification to the target list is that the tested pair is removed from the list of available pairs. In this case there is no need to recalculate the probabilities for each available pair. If there is another pair in the list of available pairs with a sufficiently large score the analysis begins again with the new pair. If no such pair remains the analysis is complete.

It is unlikely that the P and P from the initial line detection are the actual endpoints of the classified mine line . Therefore in the invented method PSAT attempts to extend detected mine lines based on the likelihood of random targets falling into the mine line pattern.

For fixed spaced lines if the identified value for is in fact the exact value applied to the entire length of the line the error bounds used in the original cells would be adequate for the extension. However is just an estimate. Though the estimate is probably close to correct for the segment between P and P more room for error is needed as the line extends past those two candidate end points. For the extension the length and width of the mine cells are doubled to account for errors in the choice of and small errors in the slope of the line.

As in the original line analysis a temporary change of variable is applied to the target list by shifting and rotating coordinates so that the line between P and P lies on the horizontal axis with P at the origin. The shifting and rotating coordinates enables a nonparametric analysis. Now all rotated targets to the left of P or to the right of P that lie within the extended error bounds of a predicted mine cell location are identified. One by one these targets are added to the line if their addition does not create an unacceptably large gap between filled cells.

If the SCM sensor system s false target rate and or probability of detection were well known for the location in question the limit for this gap could be established by calculating the probability for the waiting time between the last target added and the next target observed. In an effort to minimize the required prior knowledge observations from the current line are used to determine whether or not targets lying in projected cells along the extended line should be included as part of the classified mine line.

Since the area covered by each projected mine cell is relatively small the chances of a false target falling within a perimeter area of a projected mine cell are very low. In fact the total area covered by all cells extended to a significant length is small. It is tempting to simply add any target that falls in a projected mine cell to the line s target list. However since it is unclear just how far to extend the line some rules for the extension have been determined. If a sequence of M missed detections in a row was already accepted as part of the line a new run of M missed targets in the longer wider line with longer cells should not be rejected. Furthermore since small errors in the calculated and the predicted line slope create larger errors in cell placement as the line is extended beyond P and P the probability that some genuine mine targets may fall outside of their designated cells increases as the line grows. Since the initial maximum gap is known to fall within an acceptable limit and to avoid the problem of no gaps the initial maximum observed gap is increased by 2 cells and doubled. Then to allow the limit to grow as the line extends if the maximum observed gap in the extended region exceeds the previous estimate from the original un extended region the new observed maximum is doubled and the result is the new maximum acceptable gap. This rather ad hoc solution is attractive since the error bound grows with the line and it is similar to the more rigorous solution used in the random line case.

After all contacts likely to belong to the line through P and P have been added to the list of targets an attempt is made to correct the line s slope using linear regression. This is helpful in cases where the mine line is very long and small errors in the slope due to errors in the positions of P and P result in missed targets in the far range. The correction is also important for the prediction of target positions in unsearched areas.

After correcting the slope another attempt is made to add targets to the line beyond P and P and also to any empty cells between P and P. The resulting new target list is then used to again correct the slope using linear regression. The final target list includes all targets lying in spaced cells along the corrected line. Each of the final targets are removed from the list for further analysis and any candidate endpoint pair matched with any member of this list is marked not available to become the next considered P P .

Before extending a random line the line s position is corrected using linear regression and any points between P and P that fall in the corrected mine line region are included in the target list.

Next a boundary for the acceptable distance along the random mine line between the current endpoint and a prospective extension point is established. If the unknown Poisson rate for the mines randomly distributed along the line is L and there are N intervals between targets already included in the line the probability that the maximum distance G between the perpendicular projections of any two consecutive points on the corrected line is less than some x 0 is given by Equation 16 . 1 16 The density for Gis the derivative of this expression and is given by Equation 17. 1 17 

The probability that the next interval will be greater than x is e. The probability that the length of the next interval Wwill be at least as large as the maximum of the previous ones is given in the integral shown in Equation 18.

Thus for fairly large values of N the current maximum interval is a reasonable bound for the size of the next interval. However for small N something larger is required. For positive integer K 

For K 2 this is 2 N 1 N 2 which is acceptable even for N as small as four. Therefore the maximum gap allowed between the endpoint and a new contact to be added is twice the maximum gap between targets over all targets accepted as part of the current line.

As in the fixed spacing case targets are added one by one to the line starting at the initial endpoints P and P. At each step the distance between the current endpoint and the prospective target is compared to twice the maximum gap between targets currently accepted into the line.

After the random line has reached its maximum extent the position of the line is again corrected using linear regression using both the original points and those added in the extension. Any points within the random line s corrected boundaries are added to the line s target list. In the random case there is no additional information to distinguish false targets and mines. Therefore all contacts within the line s error bounds must be marked as mines. And all of these targets are then removed from the target list for analysis and all remaining target pairs with a member in the random line are marked not available.

Once a line has been classified some housekeeping is required. For a fixed spacing line targets lying in the cells for the identified spacing are assumed to be mines associated with the current line. Hence they are removed from further consideration as either a mine line end point or a member of another mine line s cells. Contacts not in cells are assumed to be either false targets or mines from intersecting lines. As such these targets are left for further analysis. For randomly distributed lines it is impossible to distinguish between mines from the current line false targets and mines from intersecting lines. Thus all targets within the defined error bound of the line segment between P and P are assumed to be members of the current line. All pairs including any of these contacts are removed from the available pairs list and all these contacts are removed from the target list for consideration.

Since the target list and the list of available pairs has changed all available pairs must be re evaluated before another pair can be chosen for analysis. A flag is set to insure that a new BestCT is calculated and a new set of best pairs is identified. Once a line has been found and its targets are removed from consideration the number of available pairs can be greatly reduced. However since the target list is modified the probability of obtaining the new observed count within the test area for each available pair must be recalculated. Thus the entire initial area analysis is repeated on the reduced data set. With each iteration the number of candidate endpoint target pairs is reduced and less time is required for the analysis.

The method is complete when all MLCs have been analyzed. The mine sensor system having a prediction rate of about 0.4 to about 0.6 is improved utilizing the invented method to about 0.84 to about 0.95.

In the circles represent eight mines that were not predicted by PSAT but were included in the true solution in .

The performance of the PSAT algorithm has been tested in a Monte Carlo simulation over a variety of minefield and sensor parameters. 1 367 different minefield scenarios were simulated. The simulations included 3 depths 10 ft. 60 ft and 200 ft. 6 false alarm rates FARs from 1 to 20 contacts per sq.n.mi. 3 false target distributions 3 sensor P s 0.4 0.6 and 0.9 true target confidence scores 0.6 0.8 and 1.0 and false target confidence scores 0.5 0.6 0.8 and 1.0. Each scenario was replicated 10 times. The simulations were used to measure the algorithm s Pand FAR for both mines and mine lines under various conditions. All mines in the simulations were in nearly linear or piecewise linear structures with either fixed or random mine spacing.

The probabilities of detection for mines and the FAR for mines referenced above are for results restricted to the original sensor contact lists. In the case of a fixed spacing mine line it is possible for the algorithm to predict the location of undetected mines. This raises both the probability of detection for mines and the FAR for mines. Table 2 shows the resultant Pd when the PSAT is allowed to predict undetected mines.

Unfortunately algorithm target predictions are not perfect. Sensor false detections that happen to lie nearly co linear to established lines either fixed or random can result in spurious line extensions. In the fixed spaced line case the algorithm will generate suspected mine positions matching the established pattern. Also false targets will occasionally obscure the true mine spacing making it appear smaller. This results in too many predicted mine locations. Table 3 shows the FAR for mines when PSAT is allowed to predict undetected mines.

Alternatives to the invention include utilizing detection data from search areas that are incompletely searched by the sensors. Under these circumstances the probability for the Bernoulli trial in the initial anomaly detector is adjusted for the actual sizes of the test area searched and the comparison area searched. Additionally the number of cells Ncells is scaled by the proportion of the actual area searched.

The invention is as a mine sensor system includes i one or more minefield sensors interfaced to a computer ii a computer program product iii a simulated or actual minefield that follows rules for deploying mines by both water borne vessels and airborne vessels where the minefield fits into mine line patterns dictated by standard mine laying protocol and iv a processor to characterize the mine sensor system s performance across a wide range of operating environments depth of water and simulated minefield configurations and to develop parameters i.e. Table I for mine lines cell size and a minimum number of cells.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

