---

title: Method and apparatus for evaluating a heart patient
abstract: A method of clinical evaluation of a cardiology patient includes the providing of a computer having a database and a user interface that includes a display screen. One or more images are displayed on the display screen, each being an anatomical representation of a part of a human heart which are a portion of a human heart, there is displayed on the screen patient data that corresponds to the part that is displayed on the screen. Such data can be for example prior or present test data. One embodiment includes a graphical medical generation system for replacing the dictation and transcription process of a cardiology health care professionals. A graphical display is provided which processes user input in conjunction with pre-defined cardiology reporting options to generate user-defined cardiology reports. A method and apparatus  is described for controlling, via a relational databases, the selection of pre-defined character strings to be inserted into the generated cardiology report. An option is provided for the user to customize character strings for insertion into the cardiology report. Another option is provided for the method and apparatus  to include comparisons with earlier cardiology reports and data testing to assist the user in generating a conclusion.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560968&OS=08560968&RS=08560968
owner: 
number: 08560968
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100324
---
U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 163 620 filed Mar. 26 2009 is incorporated herein by reference.

Priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 163 620 filed Mar. 26 2009 is hereby claimed.

The present invention relates to cardiology and more particularly to a method of evaluating a heart patient wherein a computer has a database and a user interface connected thereto that includes a display screen.

Even more particularly the present invention relates to a method of evaluating a heart patient that employs a computer and a display screen the display screen having multiple images that are displayed to a user each image being an anatomical representation of a portion of a human heart wherein multiple of the images depict different portions of the human heart and the display screen simultaneously displays data next to one or more of the images the data being specific to the patient in the display data relating to at least one of the portions of the human heart that is represented by the display.

Currently the practice of cardiology in the United States uses disparate modalities and systems for documentation. This includes for example handwritten notes scanned images document management systems and fully integrated electronic medical systems.

The current state of the practice of cardiology includes 1 Era of increasing demand 2 Time constraints 3 More complex procedures 4 Increased imaging requirements 5 Decrease allotted time per patient visit and 6 Decreased reimbursement. Cardiologists can average of 8 10 minutes per patient.

Traditionally the practice of dictating and transcribing cardiology reports has been used by cardiologists. Cardiologists have been increasingly burdened by the need to quickly and accurately generate cardiology reports after reviewing the results of heart studies.

Additionally cardiologists must fill out forms for submission to insurance companies and provide information to regulatory agencies. To gather and produce all of this information cardiologists must spend a significant portion of their work day dictating the needed information. Additionally cardiologists must maintain a staff to transcribe the information into reports and to fill out required forms.

A cardiologists typically dictates a report reviewing the results of a heart study which subsequently must be typed by a transcriber. This process is time consuming and repetitive. Using traditional manual methods of record keeping patient data is not readily available for fast and easy review. A patient s medical record cannot be easily combined with other studies and or reports and or other patient data for analysis and reporting.

There is a need to automate the report generation process to free up more time in the practice of cardiologists.

One embodiment provides an integrated software solution for cardiac procedures encompassing reporting storing data mining retrieving and online analysis. For example the method of the present invention enables capture of predefined data elements and cardiac testing modalities.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus automates the report generation process by providing a graphical user interface incorporating a relational database with user selectable reporting components in a graphical environment.

In one embodiment is provided a method of clinical evaluation of a cardiology patient. The method includes the providing of a computer having a database. A user interface is provided which is connected to the computer and which includes a display screen. As part of the method one or more images are displayed on the display screen which are anatomical representations each of a different portion of a human heart.

In one embodiment the display can include patient data that is displayed on the display screen. In one embodiment the patient data relates specifically to the anatomical representation of the portion of the human heart that is being viewed on the display screen.

In one embodiment multiple images can be displayed as optional parts of the human heart. In one embodiment one or more of those optional portions can be selectively enlarged for more easy inspection by a physician or other operator.

In one embodiment the method includes entering data that relates specifically to the displayed image.

In one embodiment the method can include an interpreting cardiologist reviewing the data as part of a medical evaluation of a patient.

In one embodiment multiple images are displayed on the display screen including multiple small images simultaneously displayed each small image depicting a different part of the human heart.

In one embodiment multiple images are displayed on the display screen and wherein some of the images displayed are smaller images and wherein one or more of the displayed images is a larger image.

In one embodiment a physician or operator can selectively enlarge one image or another image and by switching e.g. clicking with computer mouse touch screen from one small image to another. The enlarged image selection generates data on the display screen that corresponds to the selected and enlarged image.

In one embodiment a physician or operator can change from one image displayed to another image displayed without typing on a keyboard.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus provides a graphical display where a user has access to a first plurality of reporting segments.

In one embodiment the plurality of reporting segments are a plurality of geographical portions of a human organ. In one embodiment the segments can be portions of a human heart.

In one embodiment the multiple anatomical images views of the human heart can be displayed including parasternal long axis view short axis of left ventricle view short axis view at the level of the aortic valve apical two chamber view and four chamber view.

In one embodiment the average time from review of the testing results to generation of a report by the cardiologist is less than 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 and 3 minutes. In various embodiments the average time is between about any to the above specified time limits. In one embodiment the cardiologist generates more than 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 50 60 70 80 90 and 100 cardiology reports a day. In various embodiments the number of reports generated varies between about any to the above specified daily number of reports.

In various embodiments the report generation method and apparatus incorporates previously defined reporting text strings or components and includes a graphical user interface for selecting phrases to be inserted in the template. Preferably the system will further comprise a graphics engine for display of graphical expressions of selection analysis.

For instance a heart study can be conducted which will contain many basic elements common to all patients but examination data will vary for each patient. Examination data can contain any number of variable responses and each variable within the input can offer any number of different options from which to choose. In addition cardiologists can personalize the report to suit a particular situation.

In one embodiment the examination and or report input is electronically stored for possible future use in data mining reporting and or analysis.

One embodiment enables a report on a cardiology study to be generated from a single graphical input screen. In one embodiment is provided a graphical input display having images of various views of the human heart for data entry.

In one embodiment report text is generated by making selections on a graphical input screen. In one embodiment a set of a plurality of suggested cardiology report data string conclusions is indexed to possible selections made on the graphical input screen. In one embodiment a plurality of the suggested conclusions for the cardiology report based on input by cardiologist automatically show up based on the graphical selections made by the user of the method and apparatus.

One embodiment provides an interface with existing cardiology testing devices. One embodiment enables an interface with billing and hospital admit systems. Examples of reports and studies can include as examples 1 Transthoracic echocardiography 2 Transesophagial echocardiography 3 Exercise treadmill test 4 Stress echocardiogram 5 Chemical stress echocardiogram 6 Exercise myocardial perfusion imaging 7 Chemical myocardial perfusion imaging 8 Holier monitoring 9 Coronary angiography 10 Peripheral angiography 11 Coronary computerized tomographic angiography and 12 Peripheral computerized tomographic angiography.

While certain novel features of this invention shown and described below are pointed out in the annexed claims the invention is not intended to be limited to the details specified since a person of ordinary skill in the relevant art will understand that various omissions modifications substitutions and changes in the forms and details of the device illustrated and in its operation may be made without departing in any way from the spirit of the present invention. No feature of the invention is critical or essential unless it is expressly stated as being critical or essential. 

Detailed descriptions of one or more preferred embodiments are provided herein. It is to be understood however that the present invention may be embodied in various forms. Therefore specific details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but rather as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to employ the present invention in any appropriate system structure or manner.

One embodiment provides an integrated software solution for cardiac procedures encompassing reporting storing data mining retrieving and online analysis. For example the method of the present invention enables capture of predefined data elements and cardiac testing modalities.

In one embodiment is provided a document generation system for enhancing or replacing the dictation and transcription process. More particularly a computer based documentation system is provided which processes document templates in conjunction with pre defined character strings to generate cardiology reports.

In one embodiment the data displayed includes a collection of prior studies relating to the patient. is a screen shot showing the findings input screen for the right atrium primary reporting structure where the smaller image of the short axis at the level of the aortic valve has been selected thereby showing an enlarged image view of this smaller image view and also showing the various input areas for properties or attributes of this primary reporting structure items through . Also shown on this input screen is a pop up version of the findings text from a previous intra modal study which report had been previously entered into the method and apparatus for this particular primary reporting structure in this case the right atrium whose right atrium input screen is displayed . This previous findings version will pop up a pre set period of time and then disappear. If the user desires to see any of the prior studies he merely selects the prior studies tab and will be directed to a page where all prior studies are available see for the Left Atrium for the particular primary reporting structure whose report input screen is currently being displayed in this case the right atrium primary reporting structure input screen . Also shown in this input screen is a pop up version of the current text on the right atrium as being the primary reporting structure whose input screen is currently being displayed.

In one embodiment when selecting the conclusions tab the user has a free ability to change and or modify any imported conclusion text string. For example in on the conclusions input display is shown imported text string along with imported conclusion text string . If desired the user can reorder string and . To include string in the conclusions section of the report the user can select include button . Similarly to include string in the conclusions section of the report the user can select include button . The user has the option to modify the text of any conclusion text string such as by right clicking on the string and selecting edit . The user can also delete one or more of the conclusion text strings.

In one embodiment a user is provided an option for the method and apparatus to make a comparison between one or more of the findings or results of a first cardiology test or procedure with one or more the findings or results of a second cardiology test or procedure. also illustrate a comparison feature of method and apparatus . In one embodiment the method and apparatus can automatically compare one or more items attributes or properties of one or more of the primary reporting structures of the currently reported test results to one or more prior tests results. In one embodiment a user is given an option of which particular test components are to be compared and what factors will trigger a comparison e.g. test data varies by greater than X percent . In one embodiment a comparison is made if the variance between one or more of the findings or results of a first cardiology test or procedure with one or more of the results or findings of a second cardiology test or procedure falls within a predefined limit. For example if the variance exceeds a specified percentage. In one embodiment the user is provided with the option of specifying the range or percentage.

In one embodiment the following example reporting language can be used for the comparison 1 Compared to the previous study dated Oct. 12 1999 the left ventricle and left atrium is dilated 2 Compared to the previous study dated Oct. 12 1999 the severity of Aortic Regurgitation appears to be unchanged Worsened Improved and 3 Compared to the previous study dated Oct. 12 1999 the left ventricular Ejection Fraction is unchanged Detoriated Improved. both show comparison sections in the preview report which include report comparison text strings and examples of comparison text strings are included in this paragraph .

In one embodiment the comparison will appear in the pop up comparison screen having the comparison strings for the particular primary reporting structure being inputted at the time. In one embodiment the user is provided with the option of deleting one or more automatically generated comparisons from the final version of the report. In one embodiment the method and apparatus automatically creates and inserts the comparison text strings and inserts them into the comparison section based on the comparison text string rules set up for method and apparatus .

In one embodiment the comparison is made in the findings for a primary reporting structure. In one embodiment the comparison is made for an attribute or property of a primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment a user is provided with the option to remove the automatic comparison from the generated report on the cardiology examination.

In one embodiment comparisons to one or more attributes or properties of a primary reporting structure can be added to the combined findings text string. In one embodiment such comparison is done only for the last report or test data included in method and apparatus . In one embodiment a user can choose from a set of possible comparisons and or sets of report or test data. In one embodiment a user can select one or more cut off variances for one or more attributes or properties of primary reporting structures before a comparison is automatically included in the combined findings text string. In one embodiment different variances for different properties or attributes can be selected. On one embodiment intra modal comparisons can be selected for one or more attributes or properties or one or more primary reporting structures. On one embodiment inter modal comparisons can be selected for one or more attributes or properties or one or more primary reporting structures. On one embodiment inter and intra modal comparisons can be selected for one or more attributes or properties or one or more primary reporting structures. In one embodiment a database report attributes can be provided and populated with findings and or data from previous reports.

One embodiment provides a method of clinical evaluation of a cardiology patient. The method includes the providing of a computer having a database. A user interface is provided which is connected to the computer and which includes a display screen. As part of the method one or more images are displayed on the display screen which are anatomical representations each of a different portion of a human heart.

The display can include patient data that is displayed on the display screen. In one embodiment the patient data relates specifically to the anatomical representation of the portion of the human heart that is being viewed on the display screen.

In one embodiment multiple images can be displayed as optional parts of the human heart. In one embodiment one or more of those optional portions can be selectively enlarged for more easy inspection by a physician or other operator.

In one embodiment the method includes entering data that relates specifically to the displayed image.

In one embodiment the method can include an interpreting cardiologist reviewing the data as part of a medical evaluation of a patient.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus can comprise a report generation system . Report generation system can comprise a computing device graphic input interface and a relational database .

In a preferred embodiment computing device can comprise a display keyboard and memory . In an alternative embodiment display can include a touch input . In an alternate embodiment computing device can include pointing device which can be used an alternative input device within report generation system . Pointing device can comprise a mouse trackball light pen bar code scanner digitizing pad or other pointing device.

In one embodiment findings for report generation will be through a graphical navigation interface pictorially representing multiple sections of a body organ such as the heart. In one embodiment input will be pictorially and graphically selected without keyboard use and having to switch between dialog boxes tabs or windows . In one embodiment a report on the entire study can be generated from a single screen .

One embodiment enables a report on a cardiology study to be generated from a single graphical input screen . In one embodiment is provided a graphical input display having images of various anatomical images or views of the human heart for data entry images views .

In one embodiment an echocardiogram by convention can be interpreted in standard five views these views are available for the cardiologist to review view View . In the method and apparatus these standard views are provided in the plurality of smaller anatomical images views . The selected view from plurality is enlarged and is available for detailed reporting by the cardiologist selecting from such enlarged view the primary reporting structure on which he currently desires to report and then be navigated to the input screen for such primary reporting structure. Graphical selection from enlarged views avoids the cardiologist being required to search through multiple selections and screens to locate region of interest before reporting on such primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment a report can be generated by the user using an input screen to graphically select reporting segments e.g. primary reporting structures and then selecting on the display reporting indices e.g. reporting properties or attributes of the primary reporting structures .

In one embodiment multiple anatomical images views are displayed on the display screen with the option of displaying in an enlarged format one of the multiple small anatomical images views simultaneously each small anatomical image view being an anatomical representation view depicting different portions and or views of a human heart . In one embodiment multiple anatomical images views are displayed on the display screen and the ability to select from one of this set to display a larger version of the selected anatomical image view. In one embodiment a subset of a plurality of anatomical images views are displayed on a display screen and the ability is provided of scrolling and revealing additional selectable anatomical images views from the plurality of images views . In one embodiment a user can change from one anatomical image view already displayed to another anatomical image view to be displayed without typing on a keyboard for example merely selecting a smaller anatomical image view from a plurality of anatomical images views .

In one embodiment when generating a report for a particular test multiple anatomical images views for reporting can be displayed on a display . In one embodiment for reporting on an echocardiogram test a plurality of the following views are provided Parasternal long axis view Short axis of left ventricle view short axis view at the level of aortic valve apical two chamber view four chamber view subcostal view short axis basil and short axis apical .

In one embodiment the user can select a smaller anatomical image view on display screen and have a larger version of this displayed on the display screen e.g. in selecting small image displaying larger image while the input area for reporting on the primary reporting structure remains the same the left atrium reporting page remains the same . In one embodiment after selecting the different anatomical image view to be displayed as an enlarged image the user has the option to select any primary reporting structure on such enlarged view and be shown a findings input screen for such new primary reporting structure see .

In one embodiment the user can access a findings input screen for any of the primary reporting structures from a set of icons for such primary reporting structures called the tabular navigation bar .

Users can navigate between different findings input screens for different primary reporting structures in two manners 1 selecting the primary reporting structure from its area in the displayed enlarged anatomical image or view and or 2 selecting the primary reporting structure from the listing of icons of primary reporting structures tabular navigation bar .

In one embodiment a preferred graphical anatomical image or view can be selected by the method and apparatus based on a selected primary reporting structure such as by selecting a particular primary reporting structure from the tabular navigation bar having a listing of primary reporting structures .

In one embodiment a physician or operator can selectively enlarge one image or another image and by switching e.g. clicking with computer mouse or touch screen from one small image to another clicking on one of the plurality of smaller images as shown in . In one embodiment from the enlarged image or view the user can select a primary reporting structure in which to submit report input and be directed to a reporting input screen for such primary reporting structure. One example of this would be while in the Pulmonic valve input screen shown in to select the tricuspid valve structure highlighted as from the enlarged view which will navigate the user to the input screen for the tricuspid valve primary reporting structure . Using the graphical interface in this manner the input screen for any of the primary reporting structures can be entered by selecting such primary reporting structure from the enlarged image view on such input screen or if the primary reporting structure is not shown in the enlarged image view selecting a new enlarged image view from the plurality of images view actually showing the primary reporting structure desired and then selecting such primary reporting structure from the new enlarged image view .

In one embodiment the primary reporting structure for which a report input screen is displayed can be highlighted for example in in the enlarged anatomical image view displayed on the input screen. In one embodiment the user has the option to switch reporting input screens for primary reporting structures by selecting a particular primary reporting structure on the displayed enlarged anatomical representation view. For example in the user can select on enlarged image the Left Ventricle section and navigate to input screen for the left Ventricle wherein the left ventricle will be highlighted in the enlarged image view .

As another example of graphically navigating between input screens for different primary reporting structures shows a highlighted left atrium in the enlarged anatomical image view displayed for the left atrium input screen . The user has the option to switch reporting input screens for input on primary reporting structures by selecting a particular primary reporting structure on the displayed enlarged anatomical image view. For example the user can select from the enlarged image the Left Ventricle shown as highlighted section in and navigate to input screen for the left Ventricle wherein the left ventricle will be highlighted in the enlarged image view .

Certain of the enlarged anatomical images views may not include every one of the primary reporting structures for example shows enlarged image with no highlighted portion when in the left atrium input screen because the left atrium is not visible with the short axis left ventricle view . For graphical navigation between input screens for different primary reporting structures if in a particular reporting input screen e.g. left ventricle input screen with the short axis left ventricle view enlarged if the left atrium input screen is desired to be entered a user may have to select a second enlarged anatomical image view to display enlarged which second image view does include the desired primary reporting structure such as the parasternal and then select the primary reporting structure on the second enlarged view which selected primary reporting structure in such second enlarged view displays the findings input reporting screen for the desired primary reporting structure . The user can always select non graphically the desired primary reporting structure from the tabular navigation bar which contains selection tabs for each of the primary reporting structures and is accessible from each of the input pages for each of the primary reporting structures. For the left ventricle the LA tab would be selected to return to the Left Atrium input page .

In one embodiment is provided the ability to select from a set of smaller anatomical images views e.g. as shown in images including and displayed on the display to display a larger anatomical image view e.g. image on on the display screen wherein selection can be achieved by clicking with computer mouse or selecting on a touch screen . In one embodiment the ability to display another selected larger anatomical image view from that currently being displayed on the display screen is provided by selecting a different smaller anatomical image view from the set of smaller multiple anatomical images or views e.g. .

In one embodiment the following primary reporting structures can be provided for reporting on an echocardiagram test Left Atrium Right Atrium Left Ventricle Right Ventricle Atrial Septum Ventricular Septum Pulmonic Valve Pulmonary Artery Pulmonary Veins Mitral Valve Inferior Vena Cava Aorta Aortic Valve Pericardium and Tricuspid Valve .

In one embodiment the user has the option to graphically navigate from the graphical interface graphically showing anatomical images or views to iconic reporting tabs for the primary reporting structures of the heart. In one embodiment the primary reporting structures can be correlated to one or more quick access icons. In one embodiment the quick access icons can be in tab form. In one embodiment is provided a set of selectable tabs correlated to the set of primary reporting structures wherein selection of a tab for one of the primary reporting structures displays one of the larger anatomical images views. In one embodiment each of the tabs or buttons have indicia indicating which anatomical image or view will be displayed.

In one embodiment a plurality of the anatomical images views is divided into sets of graphically selectable primary reporting structures each structure corresponding anatomically to the anatomical portion of the anatomical image or view in which the primary reporting structure is found .

In one embodiment the selected primary reporting structure of the displayed anatomical image view is highlighted and or contrasted compared to the remainder of the displayed anatomical image view. In one embodiment selecting or clicking on the highlighted primary reporting structure will toggle through the set of possible anatomical images views displaying the primary reporting structure but in different anatomical views with the selected primary reporting structure being highlighted and or contrasted compared to the remaining anatomical image view on the display for the newly displayed anatomical image display.

In one embodiment the primary reporting structures can be a plurality of the following 1 Basal anterior 2 Basal anteroseptal 3 Basal inferoseptal 4 Basal inferior 5 Basal inferolateral 6 Basal anterolateral 7 Mid anterior 8 Mid anteroseptal 9 Mid inferoseptal 10 Mid inferior 11 Mid inferolateral 12 Mid anterolateral 13 Apical anterior 14 Apical septal 15 Apical inferior 16 Apical lateral and or 17 Apex.

In the particular report input screens for the individual primary reporting structures selection of particular input options for the provided attributes or properties for the primary reporting structure will automatically create a combined findings text string For example text string in which will be included in a final report such as in the findings section for the particular primary reporting structure. One or more text clauses can be included in the combined findings text string on the particular primary reporting structure depending on the particular input either by input to the method and apparatus from testing data and or selections input made by the user with the display for the primary reporting structure and or particular reporting attributes or properties for the primary reporting structure will automatically create a text string to be included in a report section on the primary reporting structure. This is because one or more of the selections are correlated with a database of text string conclusions for such selections.

Table 1 Echocardiogram and Caratid Custom Text includes for the Echocardiogram and Caratid Reporting Functions of the method and apparatus list of menu choices and text string findings correlated with the menu choices. The left hand column includes menu choices of first second third and additional tiers of menu options with such tiers of options being separated by a forward slash. Custom text correlated with the particular choices are provided on the right hand column.

Table 3 includes the menu tree for each of the listed reporting modalities along with the first second and additional tiers of choices provided. Numerical measurement input options are provided in the sub tables included in each section of this table. Business rules and calculations performed by method and apparatus for each of the reporting modalities are also included under the specific reporting modality.

The input display can automatically display the current version of the combined findings text strings for the particular primary reporting structure depending on the particular input either by input to the method and apparatus from testing data and or selections input made by the user with the display for the primary reporting structure and or particular reporting attributes or properties for the primary reporting structure such as through pop up findings window or by clicking on report preview tab . Displaying the current version of the findings allows the user to conveniently see in real time the current version of the findings for the particular primary reporting structure based on the current input.

In one embodiment the display can include a quick view option for previewing the current version of the overall report based on the input as currently existing. This can be quick preview tab .

One feature is a graphical highlighting indication feature allowing users to see quickly which of the primary reporting structures are being currently reported on.

In one embodiment the display can include a graphical indication on the display showing what primary reporting structures have been reported on for a particular report. In one embodiment the graphical display can be the same iconic tabs tabular navigation bar which can be used to navigate to the various input pages for the primary reporting structures for a report.

One feature is a graphical highlighting indication feature allowing users to see quickly which of the primary reporting structures are being currently reported on.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus has a tabular navigation bar listing a plurality of the primary reporting structures and a highlighting feature allowing users to quickly identify which of the primary reporting structures have received input for reporting such as by input in their respective reporting pages and conversely which have not yet received input. In one embodiment a user is provided with a graphical indication that a particular primary reporting structure has been or has not been reported on . This graphical indication provides the user with a quick way of determining what primary reporting structures have and what primary reporting structures have not received report input or have been and have not been reported upon For example in tabular navigation bar has LA MV and AV highlighted by being bolded compared to the remaining items in the listing indicating that the left atrium mitral valve and aortic valve primary reporting structures each have inputted data for these in their respective input pages LA MV and AV .

In one embodiment each of the primary reporting structures are further broken down into a plurality of reporting attributes or properties. In one embodiment each of the primary reporting structures are correlated with a set of reporting selections.

In one embodiment a report is possible report is broken down into a first plurality of reporting segments. In one embodiment one or more of these reporting segments are broken down into a plurality of reporting indices. In one embodiment one or more of these reporting indices are correlated with predefined reporting text.

In one embodiment a branching function is provided to the graphical user interface in which selection of a first tier of options will cause branching to a second tier of options and selection of one or more of the second tier cause character strings to be inserted in the cardiology report. In one embodiment three or more tiers of options can be used.

In one embodiment the displayed larger anatomical image view can be coordinated with a plurality of reporting segments for such selected anatomical image view.

In one embodiment selection of a selectable portion for a primary reporting structure of anatomical image view displays a findings input screen for entering findings on one or more reporting attributes or properties correlated with the selected primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment a plurality of reporting attributes or structures relating specifically to the primary reporting structure are displayed along with the larger anatomical image view including the primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment one or more reporting attributes or properties for a primary reporting structure each have a plurality of selectable reporting options for such attribute or property. In one embodiment a plurality of reportable conditions are correlated with one or more of the reporting attributes or properties. In one embodiment a plurality of reportable conditions are correlated with a custom text reporting string for such reportable conditions attribute or properties and primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment the input screen includes a plurality of tiered menu selections for properties or attributes of a primary reporting structure. For example a particular selection can include first second and third tiers of menus. For example a second tier of reporting selections or indices for a particular property or attribute can be indexed to a particular findings data string and when selected will be incorporated into the cardiology report. In one embodiment one or more of the first or second tier of reporting indices include data which has been obtained from testing data. For example size provides access to dimension which includes a dimensional size of 3.7 cm which has been imported to the method and apparatus from prior testing of the patient.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus includes a pop up findings segment on the current primary reporting segment. The pop up can display the current text of finding segment for the current primary reporting structure for the input page on the primary reporting structure. This allows the user to see in real time how his selections made on the input screen impacts the findings for such primary reporting structure.

In this example dimension includes a graphical box which if selected shows a graph this size from one or more previous studies. The popping up of this graph with a prior study can allow the user to easily make a historical selection regarding this reporting tier such as decreased where the size has decreased from another study.

As another example selection of first tier thrombus provides access to the following second tier of reporting indices size location shape texture mobility height and width. Selection of second tier size provides access to third tier reporting indices small moderate and or large . Selection of one of these third tier of reporting indices will actually insert associated report text to be inserted into the report along with such report text being included in summary box . In certain circumstances first tier selections actually insert report text in the report and summary box .

In one embodiment the graphical interface includes a pop up display of the findings segment on the primary reporting structure whose input screen is currently shown on input display which pop up includes a snap shot of the current report text for the particularly selected geographic component of the heart being reported on. The data summary can include an area describing the geographic component area along with a second area for the snap shot of report text. The data summary box can also include an include symbol which can include import text in the second area in the conclusions section of the generated report.

In one embodiment report text is generated by making selections on a graphical input screen. In one embodiment a set of suggested cardiology report data string conclusions is indexed to selections made on the graphical input screen. In one embodiment a plurality of the suggested conclusions for the cardiology report based on input by cardiologist automatically show up. In one embodiment a user is provided the option to customize one or more of the suggested conclusions. This can be changed from interpreting physician to interpreting physician. For example a conclusion of severely dilated can be changed to severely enlarged. 

In one embodiment a plurality of users each have their own custom database of conclusions when each user customized the default set of suggested conclusions. In one embodiment every person who logs in has a customer database of the sentences used assuming they changed at least one suggested sentence .

In one embodiment the custom text and reportable conditions can be shown in the Table 1 which includes a database of Reportable Conditions and Custom Reporting Text Correlated With Such Reportable Conditions. In one embodiment a user is provided with the option of changing one or more of the custom texts.

In one embodiment the current version of the reporting text for the primary reporting structure is displayed on the input screen when reporting on the particular primary reporting structure.

The display having an enlarged anatomical image view of the heart in a graphical Parasternal long axis view is shown with the currently selected primary reporting structure left ventricle and such currently selected primary reporting structure is highlighted schematically shown by on the enlarged anatomical image view to provide the user with an image graphical indication of which of the plurality of primary reporting structures such findings input screen will be inputted.

The display also includes a set of smaller anatomical images views of the heart in this case five views including the Parasternal long axis short axis of left ventricle short axis at the level of the aortic valve two chamber view and subcostal view .

The display also has a textual listing of the plurality of primary reporting structures such findings input screen will be inputted.

A user can navigate between reporting input screens for each of the plurality of primary reporting structures. With echocardiograms the plurality of primary reporting structure input screens can include Left Atrium Right Atrium Left Ventricle Right Ventricle Atrial Septum Ventricular Septum Pulmonic Valve Pulmonary Artery Pulmonary Veins Mitral Valve Inferior Vena Cava Aorta Aortic Valve Pericardium and Tricuspid Valve .

In the display input screen for left atrium includes a plurality of tabs having acronyms of the Primary Reporting Structures which the user can select to navigate to a reporting input screen for a particular Primary Reporting Structure. Also in this figure is the current version of the text string for the findings on this primary reporting structure. The user has the option to navigate between each of the primary reporting structure to enter input screens such primary reporting attributes.

The user can navigate between input screens for each of the primary reporting structures in two manners 1 selecting a specific primary reporting structure from the selection of primary reporting structure tabs and 2 selecting a particular primary structure from the enlarged image or view shown in the current input screen for the currently selected primary reporting structure.

One feature is a graphical indication of which primary reporting properties have been reported on and which have not for the current report. In one embodiment a user is provided with a graphical indication that a particular primary reporting structure has been or has not been reported on . This graphical indication provides the user with a quick way of determining what primary reporting structures have and what primary reporting structures have not received report input or have been and have not been reported upon.

Each findings input screen for a primary reporting structure can include a plurality of selectable reporting attributes or properties for such primary reporting structure. The particular listings of selectable reporting attributes or properties on the primary reporting structure input screens have been selected for ease of use by users in making reports on the particular tests for which findings are to be made by cardiologists.

With an echocardiogram the following table lists one possible set of primary reporting structures and first level of reporting attributes or properties.

Below is a listing of Echocardiograph Primary Reporting Structures and First Level of Reporting Attributes or Properties the Primary Reporting Structures are underlined and the Attributes or Properties are placed in paragraphs and separated by semicolons 

Table Echocardiograph Primary Reporting Structures and First Level of Reporting Attributes or Properties

Each findings input screen for a primary reporting structure can include an overall normal findings quick selection for the primary reporting structure. The following overall normal selections are available on the input screen for their respective primary reporting structure Left Atrium Right Atrium Left Ventricle Right Ventricle Atrial Septum Ventricular Septum Pulmonic Valve Pulmonary Artery Pulmonary Veins Mitral Valve Inferior Vena Cava Aorta Aortic Valve Pericardium and Tricuspid Valve . Selecting such overall normal findings allows the user to avoid having to individually input findings for the plurality of attributes or properties for such primary reporting structure.

The user is provided the option to select not overall normal for primary reporting structure and enter individual reporting selections for the provided reporting attributes or properties on such primary reporting structure. The user is also provided the option of selecting overall normal for primary reporting structure after entering particular reporting attributes or properties on such primary reporting structure and have the findings on such primary reporting structure revert to an all normal for primary reporting structure findings custom text report findings string.

A plurality of the reporting attributes or properties for the particular primary reporting structure can each include an overall normal findings quick selection for reporting findings on the particular attribute or property. Selecting such quick normal findings allows the user to avoid having to individually input findings for the particular attribute or property. For example in for the Left Atrium input screen the following overall normal selections are available size Thrombus Mass Catheter and Spontaneous Echo Contrast .

In the reporting attribute or property size has been selected revealing a menu of further reporting selections on the selected attribute or property Chamber Size Dimension Volume and Volume Index. Also in this figure the left ventricle has been highlighted on the enlarged image view to indicate that such primary property is being reported on in the current input screen schematic circle around the left ventricle indicates that the reporting screen for the left ventricle is being shown .

Because the report findings are made on a test examination which includes testing instruments providing numeral values various of the findings for properties or attributes of the primary reporting structures can be imported into the method and apparatus from either the testing equipment and or technicians schematically indicated in by the arrow from test data . Accordingly various of the properties or attributes may be pre inputted when a user is inputting findings in the display . In for example the chamber size dimension of 3.7 cm has been imported into the method and apparatus from the testing equipment or from a technician inputting the data from testing output .

Certain of the findings may be based on calculations from output of testing results. Such calculations may be based on conventional formulas equations or algorithms. For example in the Volume Index m m can be calculated automatically based on input to the method and apparatus and using formulas equations or algorithms.

In one embodiment a database of a plurality of custom text report findings are provided which are correlated to particular inputs for reporting attributes or properties for particular primary reporting structures or correlated with particular inputs for primary reporting structures. Table 1 includes a database of reporting choices correlated with custom text findings to be incorporated into a report. Table 1 provides one embodiment where custom text findings strings are correlated to particular reporting attributes or properties for particular primary reporting structures or text findings correlated to particular selections on primary reporting structures.

In one embodiment a user is provided the option to customize one or more of the suggested conclusions. In one embodiment the conclusions can be changed from interpreting physician to interpreting physician. For example a conclusion of severely dilated can be changed to severely enlarged. In one embodiment a plurality of users each have their own custom database of conclusions when each user customized the default set of suggested conclusions. In one embodiment every person who logs in has a customer database of the sentences used assuming they changed at least one suggested sentence .

Automatic Suggestion of Findings Based on Inputted Test Data being Compared to Specified Default Values

In one embodiment the method and apparatus will compare one or more inputted values from test data and or findings to a set of default values and provide the user with a suggested findings or text string findings for one or more primary reporting structures and or one or more attributes or properties of a primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus analyzes inputted test data to a set of predefined criteria and suggests or chooses a custom text reporting string for a reportable condition attribute or property and primary reporting structure. In one embodiment the set of predefined criteria are set by a user. In one embodiment a set of default predefined criteria are provided.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus includes a set of default reference values for one or more cardiology tests for one or more primary reporting structures and or one or more attributes or properties of a primary reporting structure. In one embodiment the following cardiology tests primary reporting structures and or attributes or properties of primary reporting structures have default reference values which can be compared. In one embodiment the user is provided the option to change one or more of these. In one embodiment any subset of the following list can be provided and compared. In one embodiment women and men are provided with separate default or reference values for one of more of the cardiology tests primary reporting structures and or attributes or properties of primary reporting structures

Table of Reference Values Ranges for Primary Reporting Structures Attributes or Physical Properties of Primary Reporting Structures

Left Atrial Diameter Left Atrial Volume Right Atrial Diameter Left Ventricle Diastolic Dimension Left Ventricle Diastolic Volume Left Ventricle Diastolic Volume Left Ventricle Mass Left Ventricle Septal Thickness Posterior wall thickness Basal RV diameter Mid RV diameter RVOT diameter PA diameter Ejection Fraction

LV Ejection Fraction LV End Diastolic Volume LV End Systolic Volume RV Ejection Fraction Rest LV Ejection Fraction Rest LV End Diastolic Volume Rest LV End Systolic Volume

In one embodiment the method includes generating a graph which illustrates a pattern relating to some of the patient data that is a part of the database of the computer.

In one embodiment previous study parameters across different test modalities can be retrieved while a study is being interpreted. For example a history of the particular structure being reported will thus be available for an interpreting cardiologist. For example if the left atrium one of the cardiac chambers of a heart patient is being evaluated by echocardiogram previous reports made on the left atrium can be retrieved not only from the echocardiogram study but also from other reported test modalities including for example CT angiogram such prior reports being retrieved for review by input selection of the user.

In one embodiment a current study can be compared with previous studies that comparison data being part of a new report. In one embodiment is allowed the display of predefined data elements such as demographics and trend plotting. In one embodiment is enabled related fields in the same and different study modalities to be displayed such as for example ejection fraction from echocardiogram to be compared with ejection fraction from nuclear perfusion scan. Such related fields and different modalities could be easily compared.

In one embodiment a user can select various conditions in which an automatic comparison will be made. Automatic text comparison between historical studies. Automatic presentation of significant differences. In one embodiment the user can program the trigger points for automatic comparison.

In the generated report there can be a plurality of hyperlinks where discreet data can be compared to earlier studies either intra modality and or intra modality for trends. This can help the referring physician evaluate the report and determine a treatment course for the patient. Additionally when generating the report the cardiologist for any numerical value which is inputted where there is an earlier study containing a measurement for the same item the cardiologist can pull up a graph which graphically plots the trend.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus can plot graphs for one or more of the following discreet data fields showing trends 1 LA Dimension 2 RA Dimension 3 LV End diastolic dimension 4 LV End systolic dimension 5 LV End diastolic septal thickness 6 LV End diastolic postero basal free wall thickness 7 LV Mass 8 LV Mass index 9 LV Ejection Fraction 10 LV Peak Velocity 11 LV Peak gradient 12 LV Mean velocity 13 LV Mean gradient 14 LV Cardiac output 15 LV Cardiac index 16 LV Diastolic dimension 17 Pulmonary Artery Systolic Pressure 18 MV Area by planimetry 19 MV Area by PHT 20 MV Deceleration Time 21 MV E velocity 22 MV A velocity 23 Mitral annular E velocity 24 MV E E 25 Aorta Ascending aorta diameter 26 AV Aortic cusp separation 27 AV Aortic valve area planimetry 28 AV Aortic valve area Continuity Equation 29 AV Trans aortic peak velocity and or 30 AV Trans aortic mean velocity. In various embodiments any combination of the above referenced can be graphed on the display.

In one embodiment the user has the option when a graph pops up graphs to select the graph to display additional information regarding past test variable.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus can automatically pull up the portion of a prior study if a prior study is available when the user clicks on the segment of the graphical depiction of the heart the portion of the prior study pertinent to this section will show up on screen for the cardiologist to review it will disappear after a set period of time e.g. one minute . This prior portion of the earlier report can be obtained by clicking on the prior study tab of the method and apparatus .

In one embodiment the method and apparatus provides the user with information on prior report findings and or test data for the same individual. For example for individual reporting attributes or properties for a primary reporting structure a pop up graph can be accessed. shows a pop up graph on the display comparing prior data for the chamber size attribute or property for the left atrium primary reporting structure. To access the pop up comparison graph the pop up graph icon can be selected. In one embodiment pop up graph icons are highlighted when comparison data is available.

In one embodiment a trend comparison can be made between the current reporting data findings and one or more of the prior data contained in the database of discrete reporting attributes.

In one embodiment a graphical comparison on a particular reporting attribute of a primary reporting structure is displayed on the display for the input screen when inputting findings for a particular primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus can automatically make a comparison between one or more of the results or findings of a first cardiology test or procedure with one or more of the results or findings of a second cardiology test or procedure and include such comparison in the report or text or report or insert a comparison text string in the report and include such comparison in a comparison text string and include the text string in the report.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus can automatically compare one or more items of the currently reported test results to one or more prior tests results. In one embodiment a user is given an option of which particular test components are to be compared and what factors will trigger a comparison e.g. test data varies by greater than X percent .

In one embodiment the following example reporting language can be used for the comparison 1 Compared to the previous study dated Oct. 12 1999 the left ventricle and left atrium is dilated 2 Compared to the previous study dated Oct. 12 1999 the severity of Aortic Regurgitation appears to be unchanged Worsened Improved and 3 Compared to the previous study dated Oct. 12 1999 the left ventricular Ejection Fraction is unchanged Detoriated Improved.

In one embodiment the comparison will appear in the pop up screen having the findings for the particular primary reporting structure being inputted at the time. In one embodiment the user is provided with the option of deleting one or more automatically generated comparisons from the final version of the report.

In one embodiment a user is provided an option for the method and apparatus to make a comparison between one or more of the findings or results of a first cardiology test or procedure with one or more the findings or results of a second cardiology test or procedure.

In one embodiment a comparison is made if the variance between one or more of the findings or results of a first cardiology test or procedure with one or more of the results or findings of a second cardiology test or procedure falls within a predefined limit. For example if the variance exceeds a specified percentage. In one embodiment the user is provided with the option of specifying the range or percentage.

In one embodiment the comparison is made in the findings for a primary reporting structure. In one embodiment the comparison is made for an attribute or property of a primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment a user is provided with the option to remove the automatic comparison from the generated report on the cardiology examination.

In one embodiment comparisons to one or more attributes or properties of a primary reporting structure can be added to the combined findings text string. In one embodiment such comparison is done only for the last report or test. In one embodiment a user can choose from a set of possible comparisons. In one embodiment a user can select one or more cut off variances for one or more attributes or properties of primary reporting structures before a comparison is automatically included in the combined findings text string. In one embodiment different variances for different properties or attributes can be selected. On one embodiment intra modal comparisons can be selected for one or more attributes or properties or one or more primary reporting structures. On one embodiment inter modal comparisons can be selected for one or more attributes or properties or one or more primary reporting structures. On one embodiment inter and intra modal comparisons can be selected for one or more attributes or properties or one or more primary reporting structures. In one embodiment a database report attributes can be provided and populated with findings and or data from previous reports.

In one embodiment the reporting attributes can include one or more of the attributes provided in the Table Of Comparisons For Discrete Reporting Attributes. In one embodiment the following choices can be provided to a user note that the X can be a different number for any of the possible selections . In one embodiment a user is provided with the option s for the method and apparatus to automatically to make one or more of the following comparisons and include such comparison in the generated report.

In one embodiment this comparison can be intra modality. Example Compare Echocardiogram with a previous echocardiogram for 1 Chamber Size LA RA LV RV 2 Ejection Fraction 3 Left Ventricular Mass 4 Left Ventricular Mass Index 5 Wall Motion 6 Pericardial Effusion Size 7 Stenosis Severity MV AV TV PV 8 Regurgitation Severity MV AV TV PV 9 Area By Planimetry with deviation MV AV 10 Area By Pressure Half Time with deviation MV 11 Area By Planimetry Continuity Equation with deviation AV and or 12 Aorta Aortic Root Diameter with deviation . As another example compare based on predetermined events 1 Chamber Size Valvular Stenosis Mitral Aortic Pulmonary and Tricuspid Report even if no change 2 Valvular Regurgitation Mitral Aortic Pulmonary and Tricuspid and or 3 Ejection Fraction An Ejection Fraction difference of 5 or More should be considered to be significant In the settings page this value should be able to be changed and or 4 Wall Motion Abnormality.

In one embodiment this comparison can be inter modality. In one embodiment this comparison can be both inter and intra modality. Example Compare Echocardiography findings to Nuclear Stress Testing for 1 EF Compare EF in Echo with EF in Nuclear 2 EF Compare EF in Echo with EF in Cath 2 Wall Motion Abnormalities Segment Segment Echo and Nuclear 3 Echocardiogram with Nuclear Rest for a Ejection Fraction and b Wall Motion. Compare Echocardiogram with Stress Echocardiogram Rest for a Ejection Fraction and 2 Wall Motion.

In one embodiment findings from one or more various prior studies can be displayed on the display for comparison by the user when preparing the current report.

In one embodiment data from intra modal studies e.g. same type of studies on the same individual such as an echocardiogram to echocardiogram can be displayed on the display.

In one embodiment if a prior report is in the method and apparatus when reporting on a primary reporting structure the method and apparatus will display on the input screen the particular combined findings string for the primary reporting structure from the prior report.

In one embodiment a portion of the text of a prior report is displayed on the display for the input screen when inputting findings for a particular primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment a portion of the text of a prior report is automatically displayed on the display for a predetermined period of time on the input screen when inputting findings for a particular primary reporting structure. In one embodiment this particular combined findings string for the primary reporting structure automatically pops up on the display see for a predefined period of time in one embodiment the user can select the predefined period of time in another embodiment the findings text string remains on during the entire time the input display screen for the particular primary reporting structure is displayed on the display.

In one embodiment the findings of a prior report on the same primary reporting structure is displayed on the display screen when inputting the findings for the current report on the selected primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment where prior studies have been performed the method and apparatus provides the option is to display the prior report s findings related to the chosen primary reporting structure. In one embodiment the option is provided to display the whole prior report. In one embodiment where multiple prior reports have been performed the option is provided to select and display any one of the selected prior report s findings related to the chosen primary reporting structure. In one embodiment multiple prior report findings related to the chose primary reporting structure can be simultaneously displayed. In one embodiment entire multiple prior reports can be accessed from the findings input screen for the chosen primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment the user is provided with the option to view reports on prior studies. In one embodiment this option is selectable on the display screen be selecting a prior studies icon or tab.

In one embodiment a database report attributes can be provided and populated with findings and or data from previous reports. In one embodiment the reporting attributes can include one or more of the attributes provided in the Table 2 Of Discrete Reporting Attributes or Properties.

In one embodiment a portion of the text of a prior report is automatically displayed on the display for a predetermined period of time on the input screen when inputting findings for a particular primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment a portion of the text of a prior report is displayed on the display for the input screen when inputting findings for a particular primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment the findings of a prior report on the same primary reporting structure is displayed on the display screen when inputting the findings for the current report on the selected primary reporting structure.

In one embodiment where prior studies have been performed the method and apparatus provides the option to display the prior report s findings related to the chosen primary reporting structure. In one embodiment the option is provided to display the whole prior report. In one embodiment where multiple prior reports have been performed the option is provided to select and display any one of the selected prior report s findings related to the chosen primary reporting structure. In one embodiment multiple prior report findings related to the chosen primary reporting structure can be simultaneously displayed. In one embodiment entire multiple prior reports can be accessed from the findings input screen for the chosen primary reporting structure.

A report can include a plurality of findings on particular primary reporting structures. A report can also include the cardiologists conclusions or final impressions. With the method and apparatus the user can automatically include particular text strings from the reported findings on the particular primary reporting structure.

The input display allows the user to select one or more findings for a particular primary reporting structure to be included into the conclusions section of the report. A quick incorporation feature is provided where the user viewing the currently displayed current version of the combined findings text string into the conclusions section. In one embodiment only the text included in the current display is incorporated into the conclusions section even if the ultimate text of the conclusions section is changed based on input after selecting the option to incorporate the findings text string into the conclusions section. In one embodiment the final version of the text incorporated into the conclusions section changes automatically with changes based on input after selecting the option to incorporate the findings text string into the conclusions section. In one embodiment only correlated findings text strings from already selected attributes or properties are included in the conclusion even where additional findings text strings from additionally selected attributes or properties are added to the combined findings text string.

In one embodiment the user is provided option to add additional conclusions to the one or more findings text strings previously imported into the conclusions section. In one embodiment the user is provided the option to add text to one of more of the imported findings text strings. In one embodiment the added text is added to the end of the imported findings text string in another embodiment the added text is added at the beginning . In one embodiment the user cannot change the actual imported findings text strings other than to add remarks to the beginning or end of the imported findings text strings. In one embodiment the individual imported findings text strings are listing in the conclusion section in order of timing of importation. In one embodiment the user is provided the option to re order the order of one or more of the imported findings text strings from one or more of the primary reporting structures.

Option to extract current version of findings for a primary reporting structure into the conclusions final impressions section of the generated report.

In one embodiment is provided the ability to view in the electronic version of the final report pop up graphing comparisons of historical testing parameters when viewing the report such as by clicking on hypertext in the report.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus can analyze the input data in the various discreet fields and compare this data with a database of practice guidelines for cardiologists to determine whether one or more guidelines are pertinent to a patient. For example there may be an applicable guideline for aortic stenosis in a patient with symptoms. In this vein the method and apparatus automatically reviews a universe of guidelines which can be included in the method and apparatus .

In one embodiment the universe of guidelines included in the method and apparatus for review can be periodically updated based on publication of new and or modified guidelines. Such an automatic review eliminates human error where the cardiologist and or requesting physician must try to manually remember the guidelines and their applicable to a particular patient.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus undergoes a review process for determining a set of possible applicable guidelines and where the method and apparatus determines that a patient fits a particular guideline the method and apparatus can display recommendations from the guideline such as on the input screen along with including the guideline and or recommendation . In one embodiment in the generated report a hyperlink to the applicable guideline can be provided where selecting the hyperlink provides access to a description of the guideline. In the report itself clicking on the hypertext will show a portion of the guideline which is appropriate to the factors which caused the guideline to be connected to the report. In one embodiment access to the full guideline can be provided to the individual reviewing the report who can be the referring physician cardiologist or another individual reviewing the report .

Because some of the guidelines require both clinical information e.g. evaluations along with data from the cardiology tests being reported on the method and apparatus in determining applicability of a particular guideline may request additional information some guidelines may require additional input by the requesting physician and or reporting cardiologist to determine applicability of the guideline and appropriate recommendation from the guideline. In this instance the method and apparatus will perform a first review from the input to the report which review will temporarily flag one or more potential guidelines meaning the data input to the cardiology report meets the initial requirements of one or more particular guidelines for applicability . For each of these temporarily flagged guidelines the method and apparatus can require a set of additional information input e.g. is the patient experience chest pains or is he symptomatic . Based on the additional input applicability of the particular guidelines are determined. For one or more of the guidelines which are determined to be applicable after input of requested clinical information the method and apparatus can generate recommendations based on the guidelines which can be included in the report.

In one embodiment where clinical information is also part of the entire medical record the method and apparatus can use such electronically available clinical information to determine applicability of one or more particular guidelines without the need to request require additional information. In this case the method and apparatus can generate recommendations based on the guidelines determined to be applicable which can be included in the report.

In one embodiment some of guidelines in the method and apparatus can flag possible data inconsistency or a failure to report on one or more items that a guideline recommends should be reported. The method and apparatus can review the input data and compare such data to the universe of guidelines. The review can be based on certain input items information data triggering the guidelines.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus based on the inputted data determines potential and or actual applicability of one or more of the following Practice Guidelines and or Quality Standards listed in the Table of Practice Guidelines and Standards. In one embodiment a subset of the list is reviewed for applicability by the method and apparatus . In one embodiment the set is a comprehensive collection of all ACC evidence based clinical documents in the field of cardiovascular medicine. These documents provide recommendations for the practice of cardiology as well as strategies for cardiovascular quality improvement.

In various embodiments the method and apparatus can include predefined text in the generated report and provide in the report a link to the applicable practice guideline or a hyperlink in an electronic version of the report to access a copy of the guideline electronically such as through the internet.

In this case method and apparatus based on the input and comparison to guidelines entered in its database identified applicable guidelines for this patent and generated text showing that severe aortic stenosis is present along with a Guideline icon is included within the generated text. A user clicking on this icon will show a pop up summary version of the applicable guideline which pop up version is also shown in .

In various embodiments one or more of the following guidelines are programmed into method and apparatus so that it compares the inputted data and identifies applicable guidelines based on the inputted data along with generating text and an icon that an applicable guideline has been identified.

 1 ECG Recommendations for the Standardization and Interpretation of the Electrocardiogram 2 ST Elevation and Non ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction Performance Measures for Adults With 3 Sleep Apnea and Cardiovascular Disease 4 Atrial Fibrillation Key Data Elements and Definitions for Measuring the Clinical Management and Outcomes of Patients With 5 Device Based Therapy of Cardiac Rhythm Abnormalities Guidelines for 6 Atrial Fibrillation Performance Measures for Management of Patients With Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation or Atrial Flutter 7 Ventricular Arrhythmias and the Prevention of Sudden Cardiac Death Guidelines for Management of Patients With 8 Evaluation of Syncope 9 Signal Averaged Electrocardiography 10 Tilt Table Testing for Assessing Syncope 11 Invasive Electrophysiology Studies Catheter Ablation and Cardioversion 12 Update of the Clinical Competence Statement On 13 Atrial Fibrillation 2006 Guidelines for Management of Patients With 14 Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy.

 1 Device Based Therapy of Cardiac Rhythm Abnormalities Guidelines for 2 Perioperative Cardiovascular Evaluation for Noncardiac Surgery 2007 Guidelines 3 Cardiac Rehabilitation for Referral to and Delivery of Cardiac Rehabilitation Secondary Prevention Services Performance Measures on 4 Coronary Artery Bypass Graft Surgery CABG Guideline Update for.

 1 Adults With Congenital Heart Disease Guidelines for the Management of 2 Care of the Patient with Adult Congenital Heart Disease Bethesda Conference 32 3 Congenital Heart Disease After Pediatrics An Expanding Patient Population BC 22 4 Atherosclerosis Imaging Techniques BC 34 5 Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy 

 1 Appropriateness Criteria for Coronary Revascularization 2 Intensive Glycemic Control and the Prevention of Cardiovascular Events Implications of the ACCORD ADVANCE and VA Diabetes Trials 3 Women in Cardiology 2008 Decade of Change 4 Multimodality Noninvasive Cardiovascular Imaging 5 Structured Reporting in Cardiovascular Imaging 6 Key Data Elements and Definitions for Cardiac Imaging 7 Clinical Data Standards 8 Classification of Care Metrics 9 Reperfusion Therapy Statement on Performance Measurement and ST Elevation and Non ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction Performance Measures for Adults 10 Adults With Congenital Heart Disease Guidelines for the Management of 11 Standards for Measures Used for Public Reporting of Efficiency in Health Care 12 Reducing the Gastrointesinal Risks of Antiplatelet Therapy and NSAID Use 13 Valvular Heart Disease 2008 Focused Update Incorporated Into the ACC AHA 2006 Guidelines for the Management of Patients With 14 Noninvasive Risk Stratification Techniques for Identifying Patients at Risk for Sudden Cardiac Death 15 Sleep Apnea and Cardiovascular Disease 16 Atrial Fibrillation Key Data Elements and Definitions for Measuring the Clinical Management and Outcomes of Patients With 17 Public Reporting Principles for Public Reporting of Physician Data 18 Lipoprotein Management in Patients With Cardiometabolic Risk 19 Stress Echocardiography Appropriateness Criteria for 20 COCATS 3 Recommendations for Training in Adult Cardiovascular Medicine Core Cardiology Training Revision of the 2002 COCATS Training Statement 21 ST Elevation Myocardial Infarction Guidelines for the Management of Patients with 22 Chronic Stable Angina 2002 Guideline Update for Management of Patients with 23 Endomyocardial Biopsy in the Management of Cardiovascular Disease The Role of 24 Universal Definition of Myocardial Infarction 25 Perioperative Cardiovascular Evaluation for Noncardiac Surgery 2007 Guidelines 26 Vascular Imaging With Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance 27 Unstable Angina Non ST Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Guidelines for 28 Cardiac Interventional Procedures 29 Echocardiography Appropriateness Criteria for Transthoracic and Transesophageal 30 Emerging Infectious Diseases and Biological Terrorism Threats Conference Report on The Clinical and Public Health Implications for the Prevention and Control of Cardiovascular Diseases 31 Cardiovascular Disease Prevention in Women Evidence Based Guidelines for 2007 Update 32 Clinical Data Standards Methodology for the Development of 33 Pay For Performance American College of Cardiology 2006 Principles to Guide Physician Pay for Performance Programs 34 Cardiac Computed Tomography and Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging Appropriateness Criteria for 35 Evaluation of Syncope 36 Diagnosis and Management of Chronic Heart Failure in the Adult 37 Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography SPECT MPI Appropriateness Criteria for 38 Training in Pediatric Cardiology Recommendations for 39 Chronic Stable Coronary Artery Disease 40 Integrating Complementary Medicine Into Cardiovascular Medicine 41 Beta Blocker Use for MI Within 24 Hours of Hospital Arrival Commitment to Respond to Exercise Testing 2002 Guideline Update for 42 Cardiology s Workforce Crisis A Pragmatic Approach BC35 43 Implications of Recent Clinical Trials for the National Cholesterol Education 44 Program Adult Treatment Panel III Guidelines 45 Professionalism and Ethics 46 Hypertension ACC AHA Physician Consortium for Performance Improvement 47 Emergency Cardiac Care BC 31 48 Myocardial Infarction Redefined 49 Ethics in Cardiovascular Medicine Bethesda Conference 29 50 Practice Guidelines and Quality of Care BC 28 51 Access to Cardiovascular Care BC 23 52 Future Personnel Needs for Cardiovascular Health Care BC 25 53 Eligibility Recommendations for Competitive Athletes With Cardiovascular Abnormalities BC 36 Revision of BC 16 26 54 Acute Coronary Syndromes ACS 55 Preventing Heart Attack and Death in Patients with Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease Guidelines for 56 Alpha Blockers for Hypertension Safety of Statins 57 Statins Frequently Asked Questions 58 Challenges and Opportunities in Quantifying the Quality of Care for Acute Myocardial Infarction 59 Guide to Warfarin Therapy 60 Radiation Safety in the Practice of Cardiology 61 Access to Cardiovascular Care 62 Industry Relations 63 Echocardiography in Emergency Medicine 64 Ethical Coding and Billing Practices for Cardiovascular Medicine Specialists 65 Future of Academic Cardiology Bethesda. Conference 30 66 Therapeutic Substitution 

 1 Endomyocardial Biopsy in the Management of Cardiovascular Disease The Role of 2 Ventricular Arrhythmias and the Prevention of Sudden Cardiac Death Guidelines for Management of Patients With 3 Chronic Heart Failure ACC AHA Clinical Performance Measures for Adults With 4 Chronic Heart Failure ACC AHA Key Data Elements and Definitions for Measuring the Clinical Management and Outcomes of Patients With 5 Beta Blocker Use for MI Within 24 Hours of Hospital Arrival Commitment to Respond to COMMIT CCS 2 Trial Results 6 Mechanical Cardiac Support 2000 Current Applications and Future Trial Design 7 Cardiac Transplantation BC 24 8 Atherosclerosis Imaging Techniques BC 34 9 Hypertrophic Cardiomyopathy 

 1 Reperfusion Therapy Statement on Performance Measurement and 2 Atrial Fibrillation Key Data Elements and Definitions for Measuring the Clinical Management and Outcomes of Patients With 3 Percutaneous Coronary Intervention PCI 2005 Guideline Update for 4 Unstable Angina Non ST Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Guidelines for the Management of Patients With 5 Cardiac Interventional Procedures 6 Thienopyridines Science Advisory Prevention of Premature Discontinuation of Dual Antiplatelet Therapy in Patients With Coronary Artery Stents 7 Standards for Acquisition Measurement and Reporting of Intravascular Ultrasound Studies IVUS 8 Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory Standards 9 Data Definitions Cardiac Catheterization Module v3.0 10 Vascular Medicine and Catheter Based Peripheral Vascular Interventions 11 Fluoroscopically Guided Invasive Cardiovascular Procedures Physician Knowledge to 

 1 Appropriateness Criteria for Coronary Revascularization 2 Multimodality Noninvasive Cardiovascular Imaging 3 Structured Reporting in Cardiovascular Imaging 4 Key Data Elements and Definitions for Cardiac Imaging 5 Adults With Congenital Heart Disease Guidelines for the Management of 6 Noninvasive Risk Stratification Techniques for Identifying Patients at Risk for Sudden Cardiac Death 7 Stress Echocardiography Appropriateness Criteria for 8 Atrial Fibrillation Performance Measures for Management of Patients With Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation or Atrial Flutter 9 Endomyocardial Biopsy in the Management of Cardiovascular Disease The Role of 10 Cardiac Rehabilitation for Referral to and Delivery of Cardiac Rehabilitation Secondary Prevention Services Performance Measures on 11 Vascular Imaging With Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance 12 Cardiac Interventional Procedures 13 Echocardiography Appropriateness Criteria for Transthoracic and Transesophageal 14 Emerging Infectious Diseases and Biological Terrorism Threats Conference Report on The Clinical and Public Health Implications for the Prevention and Control of Cardiovascular Diseases 15 Electrophysiological Studies and Procedures Key Data Elements and Definitions for 16 Cardiac Computed Tomography and Cardiac Magnetic Resonance Imaging Appropriateness Criteria for 17 Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography SPECT MPI Appropriateness Criteria for 18 Cardiac Imaging With Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance 19 Electrocardiography and Ambulatory Electrocardiography 20 Exercise Testing 2002 Guideline Update for 21 Signal Averaged Electrocardiography 22 Ambulatory Blood Pressure Monitoring 23 Stress Testing 24 Echocardiography in Emergency Medicine 25 Coronary Artery Calcium Scoring By Computed Tomography in Global Cardiovascular Risk Assessment and in Evaluation of Patients With Chest Pain 26 Standards for Acquisition Measurement and Reporting of Intravascular Ultrasound Studies IVUS 27 Echocardiography 

 1 Appropriateness Criteria for Coronary Revascularization 2 Intensive Glycemic Control and the Prevention of Cardiovascular Events Implications of the ACCORD ADVANCE and VA Diabetes Trials 3 Valvular Heart Disease 2008 Focused Update Incorporated Into the ACC AHA 2006 Guidelines for the Management of Patients With 4 Stress Echocardiography Appropriateness Criteria for 5 Atrial Fibrillation Performance Measures for Management of Patients With 6 Nonvalvular Atrial Fibrillation or Atrial Flutter 7 Cardiac Rehabilitation for Referral to and Delivery of Cardiac Rehabilitation Secondary Prevention Services Performance Measures on 8 Vascular Imaging With Computed Tomography and Magnetic Resonance 9 Unstable Angina Non ST Segment Elevation Myocardial Infarction Guidelines for the Management of Patients With 10 Echocardiography Appropriateness Criteria for Transthoracic and Transesophageal 11 Emerging Infectious Diseases and Biological Terrorism Threats Conference Report on The Clinical and Public Health Implications for the Prevention and Control of Cardiovascular Diseases 12 Secondary Prevention for Patients With Coronary and Other Atherosclerotic Vascular Disease 2006 Update AHA ACC Guidelines for 13 Evaluation of Syncope 14 Peripheral Arterial Disease Lower Extremity Renal Mesenteric and Abdominal Aortic Guidelines for the Management of Patients With 15 Chronic Stable Coronary Artery Disease 16 Vascular Medicine and Catheter Based Peripheral Vascular Interventions 17 Preventing Heart Attack and Death in Patients with Atherosclerotic Cardiovascular Disease Guidelines for 18 Atherosclerosis Imaging Techniques BC 34 19 Preventive Cardiology How Can We Do Better BC 33 20 Assessment of Cardiovascular Risk by Use of Multiple Risk Factor Assessment Equations 21 Coronary Artery Calcium Scoring By Computed Tomography in Global Cardiovascular Risk Assessment and in Evaluation of Patients With Chest Pain 22 Preventive Cardiology and Atherosclerotic Disease 23 Smoking as a Health Hazard 24 Matching the Intensity of Risk Factor Management with the Hazard for Coronary Disease Events BC 27 

Additionally the user has the option to graphically navigate from the graphical interface graphically showing component parts of the heart to reporting tabs for the component parts of the heart.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus uses a web based request and or reporting based system. In one embodiment testing data is stored in a remote server. In one embodiment the generated reports are stored in a remote server.

In one embodiment anatomical images views of the heart related to septal motion can be provided on the display which are selectable such as by smaller anatomical images views or through pull down menu choices and such anatomical images views are themselves broken down into a plurality of selectable segmental portions. The anatomical images views for wall motion analysis can include long and short axis along with two and four chamber views. In one embodiment WMSI can be calculated by the software based on input made in selecting one more or all of the smaller segmental portions with each smaller segmental portion providing the option to select from a set of gradations of wall motion. For example segmental portions for the individual sections of the heart can be selected graphically by clicking on the particular segmental section of the heart can and then selecting an indicator from the set of 1 2 3 and 4 such as toggling through such indicators . The WMSI based on conventionally available formula can be is automatically calculated by the software based on such input and included in the findings section of the generated report.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus uses one or more of the following formulas or business rules in reporting and automatically calculates one or more of the following properties or attributes for one or more of the following primary reporting structures for reporting on one or more cardiology tests or procedures.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus can include a test procedure appointment scheduling option which can provide 1 a suggested date for test and 2 listing of available tests. In one embodiment the listing of available tests to be scheduled includes sublistings for indicators which would allow such tests such as according to the ACC AHA Appropriateness Guidelines American Cardiology . In one embodiment the referring physician can request multiple tests in same request such as by clicking on an add button .

In one embodiment the data displayed includes referring physician order. In one embodiment the data displayed includes scheduling information. In one embodiment the data displayed includes study parameters.

In one embodiment there can be optional notices to referring physician a when study scheduled with patient and or b when study actually reported. In one embodiment the notices can be through email or other notification modality. In one embodiment the notice will not disclose patient name to be HIPPA compliant and can be generic without name X studies scheduled and or Y studies reported inviting the user to log into the system to get more information.

In one embodiment each referring physician will have a unique username and password which will be linked to a set of patient data.

In one embodiment when a referring physician sends in request to schedule a study he is provided with an option to print out a receipt from the cardiology office website that gives the patient the date of the scheduled test and a confirmation number for the appointment. The appointment can be used to track the appointment beyond the patient s name. The receipt can also give the phone number and or address of the location for the scheduled tests. A individualized text message can be provided in the receipt for the cardiology office regarding information that can be conveyed to the patient e.g. we will contact you within one working day or you should call us . However an actual appointment will not actually be scheduled until the patient is contacted directly by the clinic.

In one embodiment when scheduling an appointment the referring physician has the option to select date time technician and cardiologist reading and reporting the test results. In one embodiment the method and apparatus queries regarding whether additional tests should be scheduled for the same day for a single patient. 

In one embodiment the method and apparatus uses a web based request and or reporting based system. In one embodiment testing data is stored in a remote server. In one embodiment the generated reports are stored in a remote server.

In one embodiment is provided a method and apparatus to enforce appropriateness guidelines for scheduling a cardiology procedure.

In this embodiment a physician can request a cardiology test be performed. In response to this request method and apparatus can provide physician with a plurality of appropriate reasons for scheduling prescribing the specific cardiology test and require that one or more of the provided reasons be selected before allowing the scheduling of the test. In one embodiment the provided reasons are ACC AHA appropriate guidelines.

As indicated in the physician requesting the study will be required to select one or more of the conditions from a set of appropriate conditions listed in in method and apparatus for patient which selected condition is considered appropriate for performing a particular study before a particular study can be scheduled. In one embodiment the set of appropriate conditions for a plurality of cardiology studies are contained in a database which method and apparatus can access. In one embodiment the set of appropriate conditions are compiled from published ACC AHA appropriateness guidelines for a particular study. In one embodiment sets of appropriate conditions are compiled for each of a plurality of cardiology studies and contained in a database which method and apparatus can access.

The Table of Appropriateness Criteria include criteria which can populate the database accessible to method and apparatus .

b. Acute chest pain Intermediate pre test probability without ST elevation and negative initial cardiac enzymes.

j. Risk Assessment Known CAD on catheterization OR prior SPECT MPI study in patients who have not had revascularization procedure. Greater than or equal to 2 years to evaluate worsening disease

n. Risk Assessment Preoperative Evaluation for Non Cardiac Surgery Intermediate Risk Surgery Intermediate pre operative risk and poor exercise tolerance.

o. Risk Assessment Preoperative Evaluation for Non Cardiac Surgery High Risk Surgery Minor pre operative risk and poor exercise tolerance.

q. Risk Assessment Following Acute Coronary Syndrome UA NSTEMI No Recurrent Ischemia OR No Signs of HF

Once the appropriate conditions for scheduling the requested study the Add Study tab can be selected and the study will be set in line.for scheduling.

In one embodiment method and apparatus provides a referring physician after a cardiology procedure has been scheduled with an appointment request receipt . The appointment request receipt includes the name of patient the test procedure and requested date of procedure .

In one embodiment where multiple cardiology procedures are requested for a patient method and apparatus examines each procedure facilities required for such procedure and time required and determines if there is a conflict in scheduling the procedures on the same day and or at the same cardiology facility before allowing a requested date to be listed for a requested study.

In one embodiment method and apparatus for a particular referring physician provides a database of scheduled procedures by such physician.

In one embodiment after a report is entered on a procedure for a patient method and apparatus notifies electronically referring physician such as by email or text message. In one embodiment referring physician has access to completed report by logging into method and apparatus and viewing the report See .

In is shown a New Study requisition screen with the Study Details section enlarged. Method and apparatus provides an option for the referring physician to be notified box when the study is scheduled by the cardiology facility performing the study and or when the study has been reported on box .

In method and apparatus indicates to the referring physician that the listed study has been requested by the referring physician but that no appointment for the study has been scheduled at this time .

In method and apparatus indicates to the referring physician that the listed study has been requested by the referring physician and that an appointment for the study has been scheduled at this time with the appointment date and time listed .

In method and apparatus indicates to the referring physician that the listed study has been requested by the referring physician an appointment for the study has been scheduled at this time with the appointment date and time listed and that a report has been made on the study which can be viewed by the referring physician by clicking on the Report icon in the screen shot .

In one embodiment one or more of the following searches and default views are provided in the method and apparatus .

One embodiment includes data mining capabilities including predefined data elements demographics and trend plotting of multiple components reported in any created under method and apparatus . In one embodiment data mining can occur under any of numerical discrete items for the attached listing of discrete data elements. In one embodiment data mining can occur under any of the numerical discrete data elements.

Security access to stored data preferably is provided by the medical report generation method and apparatus . Security access may be provided by distinguishing between each user s data and reports through the use of a user name.

In one embodiment the method includes providing a second computer with a second display screen and making the report available to the second computer on the second computer display screen.

In one embodiment is provided a method and apparatus for report generation in which the contents of a relational database are used to generate a cardiology report. The database can include a plurality of option text variables for use in preparing a cardiology report a plurality of variable records for storing pre defined character strings to replace the option text variables.

In one embodiment report generation can be by touch input screen such as by commercially available touch input screens. For example the Apple IPHONE touch input screen.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus includes a reporting function to the technicians which are performing tests to show technicians what tests are scheduled for them for particular days and times. From this list the technician clicks on the particular scheduled test and a reporting screen comes up where various information about patient has already been filled out name ssn etc. . For an Echo test the technician puts in height and weight and method and apparatus automatically calculate body mass index BMI and body surface area BSA . These calculations are based on formulas.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus will provide a display for technician input having input locations for the values which are to be obtained for the specific test. In the prior art the values were handwritten or typed in on paper reports. In one embodiment the input values can be selected from tables of possible input values without any typing by the technician such as by the technician pointing and clicking a mouse on the selected input value. Point and click from tree type menu system. However technician has the option to key in input values.

Additionally for the input screen where there is a possible input that is a calculation from two or more other inputs the method and apparatus can automatically calculate such value from the inputs. In one embodiment inputs for calculated values cannot be inputted by the technician the method and apparatus calculates these values instead from the relevant inputs.

In one embodiment the data displayed includes referring physician order. In one embodiment the data displayed includes scheduling information. In one embodiment the data displayed includes study parameters. In one embodiment the data displayed includes a collection of prior studies relating to the patient.

In one embodiment a physician reading the reported data on the display can add an interpretation of the data by selecting one of multiple displayed options. As an example one of the options can include for example normal or abnormal . In one embodiment an operator or physician can input new data that relates to the image displayed on the display screen.

In one embodiment the computer automatically generates a report that contains at least in part any new patient data that was input by a physician or operator.

In one embodiment the method includes providing a second computer with a second display screen and making the report available to the second computer on the second computer display screen.

In one embodiment test data from one or more of the following tests is displayed on the display screen echocardiogram halter monitor perfusion test stress echocardiogram stress test adenosine myocardial perfusion.

In one embodiment the method includes generating a graph which illustrates a pattern relating to some of the patient data that is a part of the database of the computer.

In one embodiment is provided a document generation system for enhancing or replacing the dictation and transcription process. More particularly a computer based documentation system is provided which processes document templates in conjunction with pre defined character strings to generate cardiology reports.

In one embodiment is provided a method and apparatus for report generation in which the contents of a relational database are used to generate a cardiology report. The database can include a plurality of option text variables for use in preparing a cardiology report a plurality of variable records for storing pre defined character strings to replace the option text variables.

In one embodiment a branching function is provided to the graphical user interface in which selection of a first tier of options will cause branching to a second tier of options and selection of one or more of the second tier cause character strings to be inserted in the cardiology report. In one embodiment three or more tiers of options can be used.

One embodiment will include a method and apparatus which is an integrated solution for cardiac procedures encompassing one or more of the following reporting storing data mining retrieving and online analysis.

In one embodiment data entry for report generation will be through a graphical interface pictorially representing multiple sections of a body organ such as the heart. In one embodiment data input will be pictorially and graphically selected without keyboard use and having to switch between dialog boxes tabs or windows . In one embodiment a report on the entire study can be generated from a single screen.

In one embodiment report generation e.g. report detail component selection can be by voice activated commands.

In one embodiment report generation can be by touch input screen such as by commercially available touch input screens. For example the Apple IPHONE touch input screen.

In one embodiment the method and apparatus will enable capture of predefined data elements in Echocardiography.

In one embodiment related fields in the same and different study modalities example ejection fraction from echocardiogram to be compared with ejection fraction from nuclear perfusion scan can be automatically compared.

In one embodiment a plurality of guidelines for Echocardiogram and or Nuclear Cardiology are automatically incorporated into the report. In one embodiment hypertext is provided in the report which will direct one to such guidelines. In one embodiment such guidelines are periodically updated in newer versions of the method and apparatus

In one embodiment a report is possible report is broken down into a first plurality of reporting segments. In one embodiment one or more of these reporting segments are broken down into a plurality of reporting indices. In one embodiment one or more of these reporting indices are correlated with predefined reporting text.

In one embodiment selecting a particular reporting segment provides access to a plurality of reporting indices or choices. In one embodiment a plurality of reporting indices or choices are correlated with predefined reporting text.

In one embodiment a report can be generated by the user using an input screen to graphically select reporting segments and then graphically selecting reporting indices.

In one embodiment various measurement data can be inputted and migrated to the method and apparatus via another s measurements.

 4 If patients no shows for the study a letter will be generated notifying the patient of the absence and urging the patient to reschedule the study. A second letter will be generated for the referring physician notifying the no show.

In one embodiment method and apparatus can be used to report on an coronary angiogram test. shown this embodiment. In this embodiment a plurality of findings text strings are correlated with actions performed on a three dimensional image of the heart which is displayed on input screen and articulable by the user submitting the input.

The reporting is performed in a coronary angiogram modality having a three dimensional rotatable and articulable image of heart which is see thru by dragging and dropping various elements representing objects used in a procedure or a current condition of the heart on a three dimensional image of the heart.

Objects that can be dragged and dropped into the heart can include include balloon catheters intra coronary stents bypass graft collateral vessels and branches of the vessel.

Additionally the coronary anatomy the characteristics of the coronary artery can be changed by direct interaction with the three dimensional image.

For example image can be rotated by left clicking on mouse and dragging schematically indicated by arrows and . Image can be magnified by right clicking and dragging on image . This image can be rotated by left clicking on the mouse and dragging. The image can be magnified and shrunk by right clicking and dragging on the image schematically indicated by enlargement and shrinking arrows .

On the left side tool bar vertical represents the objects that can be used to perform manipulation of the baseline coronary artery structure. From top to bottom the icons include refresh add stenosis coronary obstruction add balloon catheter add intracoronary stent Add button for bypass graft and branches subtract button for bypass graft and branches and add piercing .

Using the input screen and modifications to image are articulated by the user in input screen a coronary angiogram can be reported by dragging and dropping objects on the three dimensional images. Tabs and work as in other embodiments. In addition to this the module incorporates intra intermodality comparison trending and guideline based clinical support.

In this embodiment there is one primary reporting structure Cardiac Catherization lab Results of the heart. Reporting attributes or properties for this primary reporting structure can include Informed Consent Conscious Sedation Procedure Details Aortic Root Angiography Ascending Aortic Angiography and Prior Procedures .

In one embodiment the following reporting selections are available for input report screen with attributes or properties for the primary reporting structure.

It will be understood that each of the elements described above or two or more together may also find a useful application in other types of methods differing from the type described above. Without further analysis the foregoing will so fully reveal the gist of the present invention that others can by applying current knowledge readily adapt it for various applications without omitting features that from the standpoint of prior art fairly constitute essential characteristics of the generic or specific aspects of this invention set forth in the appended claims. The foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only the scope of the present invention is to be limited only by the following claims

All measurements disclosed herein are at standard temperature and pressure at sea level on Earth unless indicated otherwise. All materials used or intended to be used in a human being are biocompatible unless indicated otherwise.

The foregoing embodiments are presented by way of example only the scope of the present invention is to be limited only by the following claims.

DTS Exercise time 5deviation 4 Treadmill angina MaxPredictedHR MaxPredicted220 Patient Age 17segment of myoStress 68 100 of myoFixed 68 100 of myoIschemic 68 100 sum of 17 segment stress score sum of 17 segment rest score

DTS Exercise time 5 ST deviation 4 Treadmill angina MaxPredictedHR MaxPredicted220 Patient Age Gradient Gradient 4 Velocity Velocity 

