---

title: Semiconductor device
abstract: A semiconductor device includes a reset signal generator configured to change the number of activated signals among a plurality of reset signals according to a frequency of an external clock, a plurality of mixing control signal generators configured to generate a plurality of first and second mixing control signals, and a clock mixer configured to generate a mixing clock by mixing a first driving clock and a second driving clock, wherein the first driving clock is generated by driving a positive clock of the external clock according to the plurality of first mixing control signals, and the second driving clock is generated by driving a negative clock of the external clock according to the plurality of second mixing control signals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08179179&OS=08179179&RS=08179179
owner: Hynix Semiconductor Inc.
number: 08179179
owner_city: Gyeonggi-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20100914
---
The present application claims priority of Korean Patent Application No. 10 2010 0064902 filed on Jul. 6 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention relate to a semiconductor design technology and more particularly to a clock mixing circuit of a semiconductor device.

A synchronous semiconductor memory device such as a double data rate synchronous dynamic random access memory DDR SDRAM is designed to transfer data to external devices by using an internal clock synchronized with an external clock inputted from an external device such as a memory controller CTRL .

In order to stably transfer data between a memory device and a memory controller a temporal synchronization between an external clock applied from the memory controller and data outputted from the memory device is very important.

The memory device outputs data in synchronization with an internal clock. The internal clock is synchronized with the external clock when it is initially applied to the memory device but the internal clock is delayed while passing through elements within the memory device. Thus the data is outputted to the outside of the memory device in such a state that it may not be synchronized with the external clock.

In order to stably transfer data outputted from the memory device the internal clock delayed while passing through the elements within the memory device must exactly match the edge or center of the external clock applied from the memory controller. To this end the internal clock may be synchronized with the external clock by reversely compensating time for loading the data on a bus.

Examples of a clock synchronization circuit for playing such a role include a phase locked loop PLL circuit and a delay locked loop DLL circuit.

When frequencies of the external clock and the internal clock are different from each other a PLL circuit is used because a frequency multiplication function is needed. On the other hand when frequencies of the external clock and the internal clock are equal to each other a DLL circuit is used because it is not greatly influenced by noise and can be implemented in a relatively small area as compared to the PLL circuit.

Accordingly since semiconductor memory devices commonly use the same frequency for both the external clock and the internal clock the DLL circuit is widely used as the clock synchronization circuit.

In particular a register controlled DLL circuit is widely used in semiconductor memory devices. The register controlled DLL circuit includes a register which may store a locking delay value. When the power is interrupted the locking delay value is stored in the register. Then when the power is again supplied the locking delay value stored in the register is loaded and used to lock the internal clock. Thus in the initial operation of the semiconductor memory device a clock synchronization operation may be performed at a timing at which a phase difference between the internal clock and the external clock is relatively small. After the initial operation of the semiconductor memory device time taken to synchronize the internal clock with the external clock may be reduced by adjusting the variation range of the delay value of the register according to the phase difference between the internal clock and the external clock.

Referring to the known register controlled DLL circuit includes a clock buffering unit a divider a phase comparison unit a clock delay unit and a delay replica model unit . The clock buffering unit is configured to buffer a positive source clock CLK and a negative source clock CLKB inputted from the outside. The divider is configured to divide a frequency of a reference clock REFCLK corresponding to a clock edge of the positive source clock CLK according to a preset ratio and output a division reference clock REFCLK DIV. The phase comparison unit is configured to compare a phase of the division reference clock REFCLK DIV with a phase of a feedback clock FEEDBACK CLK. The clock delay unit is configured to delay a phase of a first internal clock RCLK corresponding to a clock edge of the positive source clock CLK a phase of a second internal clock signal FCLK corresponding to a clock edge of the negative source clock CLKB and a phase of the division reference clock REFCLK DIV by a delay amount corresponding to an output signal PHASE COMP of the phase comparison unit . The delay replica model unit is configured to output the feedback clock FEEDBACK CLK by reflecting an actual delay condition of the source clocks CLK and CLKB into an output clock REFCLK DIV DELAY of the clock delay unit corresponding to the inputted division reference clock REFCLK DIV.

The clock buffering unit includes a positive clock buffer a negative clock buffer and a dummy clock buffer . The positive clock buffer is configured to buffer the positive source clock CLK and output the first internal clock RCLK. The negative clock buffer is configured to buffer the negative source clock CLKB and output the second internal clock FCLK. The dummy clock buffer is configured to buffer the positive source clock CLK and output the reference clock REFCLK.

Also the clock delay unit includes a first delay section a second delay section a dummy delay section and a delay control section . The first delay section is configured to delay a phase of the first internal clock RCLK in response to a delay control signal DELAY CON. The second delay section is configured to delay a phase of the second internal clock FCLK in response to the delay control signal DELAY CON. The dummy delay section is configured to delay a phase of the division reference clock REFCLK DIV DELAY in response to the delay control signal DELAY CON. The delay control section is configured to change a logic level of the delay control signal DELAY CON in response to the output signal PHASE COMP of the phase comparison unit .

Referring to the delay sections and of the clock delay unit in the known register controlled DLL circuit each include a first delay line a second delay line and a is phase mixer . The first delay line includes a plurality of delay units DU DU DU DU DU DU DU and DU coupled in series and delays the first internal clock RCLK the second internal clock FCLK or the division reference clock REFCLK DIV through an odd number of the delay units which are in a preset order in response to the delay control signal DELAY CON. The second delay line includes a plurality of delay units DU DU DU DU DU DU DU and DU coupled in series and delays the first internal clock RCLK the second internal clock FCLK or the division reference clock REFCLK DIV through an even number of the delay units which are in a preset order in response to the delay control signal DELAY CON. The phase mixer is configured to mix a phase of a clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and a phase of a clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line at a ratio corresponding to the delay control signal DELAY CON.

Referring to the known phase mixer of the delay sections and of the clock delay unit includes a plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . and a clock mixer . The plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . are configured to generate a plurality of mixing control signals MIX CON . . . MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON MIX CONB MIX CONB MIX CONB . . . MIX CONB in response to mixing ratio control signals SHIFT LEFT and SHIFT RIGHT corresponding to the delay control signal DELAY CON. The clock mixer is configured to generate a mixing clock MIX CLK by mixing a first driving clock DRV DU CLK  and a second driving clock DRV DU CLK . The first driving clock DRV DU CLK  is generated by driving the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line according to the plurality of positive mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. The second driving clock DRV DU CLK  is generated by driving the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line according to the plurality of negative mixing control signals MIX CONB MIX CONB MIX CONB . . . MIX CONB.

The clock mixer includes a plurality of first drivers . . . a plurality of second drivers . . . and a clock combiner . The plurality of first drivers . . . are configured to output the first driving clock DRV DU CLK  by driving and combining the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line in response to the plurality of positive mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. The plurality of second drivers . . . are configured to output the second driving clock DRV DU CLK  by driving and combining the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line in response to the plurality of negative mixing control signals MIX CONB MIX CONB MIX CONB . . . MIX CONB. The clock combiner is configured to output the mixing clock MIX CLK by combining the first driving clock DRV DU CLK  and the second driving clock DRV DU CLK .

Here it is assumed that each of the delay units DU to DU delay their respective inputs by a same delay unit amount. Referring to the phase of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line is in a state such that it is delayed by a delay amount of delay unit amount corresponding to the position and the phase of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line is in a state such that it is delayed by a delay amount of 1 delay unit amount corresponding to the position . If the ratio corresponding to the delay control signal DELAY CON drives the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line at 75 to generate the first driving clock DRV DU CLK  and drives the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line at 25 to generate the second driving clock DRV DU CLK  the mixing clock MIX CLK outputted from the clock combiner included in the phase mixer is delayed by a delay amount of delay unit amount corresponding to a delay unit amount shift from position in the direction of position see position in .

On the other hand if the ratio corresponding to the delay control signal DELAY CON drives the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line at 25 to generate the first driving clock DRV DU CLK  and drives the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line at 75 to generate the second driving clock DRV DU CLK  the mixing clock MIX CLK outputted from the clock combiner included in the phase mixer is delayed by a delay amount of 1 delay unit amount corresponding to a delay unit amount shift from position in the direction of position see position in .

As described above the phase mixer may select a delay amount smaller than that of the delay unit and delay the clock. At this time the phase mixer can select the value of the delay amount and delay the clock by the selected delay amount according to the number of the first drivers . . . and the number of the second drivers . . . .

Meanwhile when the frequencies of the positive source clock CLK and the negative source clock CLKB inputted from the outside are relatively high it is advantageous when the delay amount selectable by the phase mixer is relatively small.

On the other hand when the frequencies of the positive source clock CLK and the negative source clock CLKB inputted from the outside are relatively low it is advantageous when the delay amount selectable by the phase mixer is relatively large.

However in the known phase mixer once the number of the first drivers . . . and the number of the second drivers . . . are determined they cannot be changed.

Therefore in case where the positive source clock CLK and the negative source clock CLKB having frequencies higher or lower than the frequencies determined when designed are applied to the semiconductor device the performance of the DLL circuit may not be fully exhibited as expected at the time when it is designed.

For example when the positive source clock CLK and the negative source clock CLKB having frequencies higher than the frequencies determined when designed are applied to the DLL circuit of the semiconductor device considerable jitters may occur between the positive and negative source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside and the positive and negative output clocks RCLK DELAY and FCLK DELAY of the clock delay unit even though the operation of the DLL circuit is completed.

On the other hand when the positive source clock CLK and the negative source clock CLKB having frequencies lower than the frequencies determined when designed are applied to the DLL circuit of the semiconductor device much more time is taken to complete the operation of the DLL circuit than expected. Consequently the operation of the DLL circuit may not be completed.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are directed to a semiconductor device which is capable of delaying source clocks CLK and CLKB by adjusting the delay amount variation range within the delay range narrower than the delay unit when the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied to the semiconductor device are changed to be higher or lower than the frequencies determined when designed.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention are further directed to a DLL circuit which is capable of performing a DLL operation at the maximum performance without any problem even when the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB are changed to be higher or lower than the frequencies determined when designed.

In accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention a semiconductor device includes a reset signal generator configured to change the number of activated signals among a plurality of reset signals according to a frequency of an external clock a plurality of mixing control signal generation units configured to generate a plurality of first and second mixing control signals wherein M number of the first and second mixing control signals corresponding to the activated signals among the plurality of reset signals have opposite levels and R number of the first and second mixing control signals corresponding to deactivated signals among the plurality of reset signals have the same level and a clock mixer configured to generate a mixing clock by mixing a first driving clock and a second driving clock wherein the first driving clock is generated by driving a positive clock of the external clock according to the plurality of first mixing control signals and the second driving clock is generated by driving a negative clock of the external clock according to the plurality of second mixing control signals.

In accordance with another exemplary embodiment of the present invention a semiconductor device includes a plurality of first clock driving units configured to output a first driving clock by driving and combining a positive clock of an external clock the first clock driving units being turned on off according to a frequency of the external clock and having different driving powers a plurality of second clock driving units configured to output a second driving clock by driving and combining a negative clock of the external clock the second clock driving units being turned on off according to the frequency of the external clock and having different driving powers and a clock combiner configured to generate a mixing clock by combining the first driving clock and the second driving clock.

Exemplary embodiments of the present invention will be described below in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. The present invention may however be embodied in different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the present invention to those skilled in the art. Throughout the disclosure like reference numerals refer to like parts throughout the various figures and embodiments of the present invention.

Referring to the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes a reset signal generator a plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . and a clock mixer . The reset signal generator is configured to change the number of signals activated among a plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN according to frequencies of source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside. The plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . are configured to generate a plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and a plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. At this time M number of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and M number of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON which correspond to signals activated among a plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESTN have opposite levels. R number of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and R number of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON which correspond to signals deactivated among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESTN have the same level. The clock mixer is configured to generate a mixing clock MIX CLK by mixing a first driving clock DRV DU CLK  and a second driving clock DRV DU CLK . The first driving clock DRV DU CLK  is generated by driving a clock DU CLK  outputted from a first delay line according to the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. The second driving clock DRV DU CLK  is generated by driving a clock DU CLK  outputted from a second delay line according to the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON.

The clock mixer includes a plurality of first drivers . . . a plurality of second drivers . . . and a clock combiner . The plurality of first drivers . . . are configured to output the first driving clock DRV DU CLK  by driving and combining the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line in response to the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. The plurality of second drivers . . . are configured to output the second driving clock DRV DU CLK  by driving and combining the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line in response to the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. The clock combiner is configured to output the mixing clock MIX CLK by combining the first driving clock DRV DU CLK  and the second driving clock DRV DU CLK .

Also the plurality of first drivers . . . may have different driving powers. Likewise the plurality of second drivers . . . may have different driving powers.

For reference in the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON the term plurality is expressed by N where N is an integer greater than 1. Also the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON include the M number of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the R number of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. Likewise the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON include the M number of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the R number of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON. Thus N M R where M and R are integers greater than or equal to 0.

From the relationship of N M and R where N is fixed it can be deduced that if M increases R decreases and if M decreases R increases. For more clarity it will be described below that the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON include the M number of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the N M number of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON include the M number of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the N M number of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON.

The operation of the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention will be described by example below.

As the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside are higher the reset signal generator decreases the number of the signals activated among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN. As the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside are lower the reset signal generator increases the number of the signals activated among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN.

At this time there are many methods which can determine whether the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside are high or low.

As exemplified in when a CAS latency CL is larger it may be determined that the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside are high. On the other hand when a CAS latency CL is smaller it may be determined that the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside are low.

That is as the CAS latency is larger the reset signal generator decreases the number of the activated signals and increases the number of the deactivated signals among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN. On the other hand as the CAS latency is smaller the reset signal generator increases the number of the activated signals and decreases the number of the deactivated signals among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN.

Although not illustrated in a clock frequency detector configured to detect the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside may be further provided to determine whether the frequencies are high or low.

Likewise although not illustrated in whether the frequencies are high or low may be determined by receiving frequency information signals of the external source clocks CLK and CLKB directly from the outside. The frequency information signals of the source clocks CLK and CLKB may be replaced with test signals.

For reference the increase in the number of the activated signals and the decrease in the number of the deactivated signals are based on the assumption that the total number of the reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN has already been determined. That is when the number of the reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN is N and the number of the activated signals is M the number of the deactivated signals is determined to be N M. Therefore as the number of the activated signals among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN increases the number of the deactivated signals decreases proportionally. On the other hand as the number of the activated signals among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN decreases the number of the deactivated signals increases proportionally.

The order of activation of the reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN is randomly determined according to the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied from the outside. That is even though the number of the activated signals among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN increases the signals are not sequentially activated from the first reset signal RESET to the Nth reset signal RESETN. The signals may be randomly activated in a way that the fifth reset signal RESET is activated earlier than the first reset signal RESET. The order of activation of the reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN may be changed according to the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB or may be previously determined by the designer.

When the signal applied among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN is in a deactivated state each of the mixing control signal generators . . . activates one of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and deactivates the remaining signals in response to the mixing ratio control signals SHIFT LEFT and SHIFT RIGHT.

For example when the third reset signal RESET applied to the third mixing control signal generator among the plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . is in an activated state the third signal MIX CON of the first mixing control signals outputted from the third mixing control signal generator is activated and the third signal MIX CON of the second mixing control signals is deactivated or the third signal MIX CON of the first mixing control signals is deactivated and the third signal MIX CON of the second mixing control signal is activated.

On the other hand when the signal applied among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN is in an activated state the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON are all activated or deactivated regardless of the mixing ratio control signals SHIFT LEFT and SHIFT RIGHT.

For example when the third reset signal RESET applied to the third mixing control signal generator among the plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . is in a deactivated state both of the third signal MIX CON of the first mixing control signals and the third signal MIX CON of the second mixing control signals outputted from the third mixing control signal generator may be activated or deactivated.

Among the plurality of first drivers . . . the N K number where K is an integer greater than or equal to 0 of the first drivers . . . to which the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON of the deactivated state are applied do not perform the driving operation. However the K number of the first drivers . . . to which the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON of the activated state are applied do perform the driving operation.

Likewise among the plurality of second drivers . . . the N L number where L is an integer greater than or equal to 0 of the second drivers . . . to which the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON of the deactivated state are applied do not perform the driving operation. However the L number of the second drivers . . . to which the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON of the activated state are applied do perform the driving operation.

When the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON outputted from the plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . in response to the activation of the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN are all deactivated the K number of the first drivers . . . which perform the driving operation among the plurality of first drivers . . . correspond to the N L number of the second drivers . . . which do not perform the driving operation among the plurality of second drivers . . . .

Likewise the L number of the second drivers . . . which perform the driving operation among the plurality of second drivers . . . correspond to the N K number of the first drivers . . . which do not perform the driving operation among the plurality of first drivers . . . .

The reason why the plurality of first drivers . . . and the plurality of second drivers . . . are driven is that the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON have opposite logic levels respectively or are all deactivated.

For example it is assumed that the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON are composed of ten signals i.e. it is assumed N 10 four of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON are activated and six of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON are deactivated. Given this assumption among the ten first drivers and the first third fourth and seventh drivers and perform the driving operation and the second fifth sixth eighth to tenth drivers and do not perform the driving operation.

Likewise it is assumed that the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON are composed of ten signals four of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON are activated and six of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON are deactivated. Given this assumption among the ten second drivers and the second fifth eighth and tenth drivers and perform the driving operation and the first third fourth sixth seventh and ninth drivers and do not perform the driving operation.

As exemplified above the four activated signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON among the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON correspond to the six deactivated signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON among the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON.

Likewise the four activated signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON among the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON correspond to the six deactivated signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON and MIX CON among the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON.

The reason why the signals MIX CON and MIX CON are deactivated among the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON CON CON . . . MIX CON and the signals MIX CON and MIX CON are deactivated among the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON is due to the reset signals RESET and RESET.

When the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON outputted from the plurality of mixing control signal generators . . . in response to the activation of the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN are all activated some of the K number of the first drivers . . . which perform the driving operation among the plurality of first drivers . . . correspond to the L number of the second drivers . . . which perform the driving operation among the plurality of second drivers . . . .

The reason why the plurality of first drivers . . . and the plurality of second drivers . . . are driven is that the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON have opposite logic levels respectively or are all deactivated.

Referring to the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention operates in both a case in which a frequency is low and a case in which a frequency is high.

In the case where the frequency is low it can be seen that the external source clock CLK the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line are clocks having a relatively long activation period and deactivation period.

Accordingly it can be recognized that the synchronization is achieved even though there is some difference between the rising edge of the mixing clock MIX CLK which is generated by mixing the phase of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the phase of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line and the rising edge of the source clock CLK.

Therefore the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention operates to shift the mixing clock MIX CLK by a relatively large amount in the time elapsing between the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line .

For example the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention operates to shift the mixing clock MIX CLK by delay unit amount in the time elapsing between the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line .

The above described operation can be performed by the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention because the number of the first drivers . . . which can drive the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the number of the second drivers . . . which can drive the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line can be limited to 3 a total number of first and second drivers is 6 .

That is three reset signals among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN may be deactivated while the remaining signals may be activated. Thus among the plurality of first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the plurality of second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON the respective three signals of the first mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON have the opposite logic levels with their corresponding three signals of the second mixing control signals MIX CON MIX CON MIX CON . . . MIX CON and the remaining signals are all deactivated. Through such a control the number of the drivers capable of performing the driving operation can be limited to 3 among the plurality of first drivers . . . and 3 among the plurality of second drivers . . . .

In the case where the frequency is high it can be seen that the external source clock CLK the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line are clocks having a relatively short activation period and deactivation period.

Accordingly it is recognized that the synchronization is not achieved if the rising edge of the mixing clock MIX CLK which is generated by mixing the phase of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the phase of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line is not exactly matched with the rising edge of the source clock CLK.

Therefore the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention operates to shift the mixing clock MIX CLK by a relatively small amount in the time elapsing between the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line .

For example the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention operates to shift the mixing clock MIX CLK by 1 9 delay unit amount in the time elapsing between the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the rising edge of the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line .

The above described operation can be performed by the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention because the number of the first drivers . . . which can drive the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the number of the second drivers . . . which can drive the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line can be limited to 9 a total number of first and second drivers is 18 .

As such the phase mixer in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention can adjust the number of the drivers used for driving the clock DU CLK  outputted from the first delay line and the clock DU CLK  outputted from the second delay line among the plurality of first drivers . . . and the plurality of second drivers . . . according to the frequencies of the external source clocks CLK and CLKB.

For reference the above described method of adjusting the number of the activated signals among the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN according to the frequencies of the external source clocks CLK and CLKB is merely exemplary for convenience of explanation. If the plurality of first drivers . . . and the plurality of second drivers . . . can be turned on off according to the frequencies of the external source clocks CLK and CLKB this will fall within the scope of the present invention even though the plurality of reset signals RESET RESET RESET . . . RESETN are directly controlled.

Furthermore although the clock delay unit included in the DLL circuit has been described in the foregoing embodiments this is because the most representative circuit to which the exemplary embodiments of the present invention are applicable is the DLL circuit. It should be recognized that any circuit which mixes two clocks having a phase difference and uses the mixed clock will fall within the scope of the present invention.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments of the present invention the respective drivers for driving the positive source clock CLK and the negative source clock CLKB can be turned on off according to the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB. Thus the source clocks CLK and CLKB can be delayed by adjusting the delay amount variation range within the delay range narrower than the delay unit amount even when the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied to the semiconductor device are changed to be higher or lower than the frequencies determined when designed.

Therefore the DLL circuit can perform the DLL operation at the maximum performance without any problem even when the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB are changed to be higher or lower than the frequencies determined when designed.

In accordance with the exemplary embodiments of the present invention the number of the drivers for driving the positive source clock CLK and the negative source clock CLKB can be changed according to the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB. Thus the source clocks CLK and CLKB can be delayed by adjusting the delay amount variation range within the delay range narrower than the delay unit amount even when the frequencies of the source clocks CLK and CLKB applied to the semiconductor device are changed to be higher or lower than the frequencies determined when designed.

While the present invention has been described with respect to the specific embodiments it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

