---

title: Compositions and methods for modulating the immune system
abstract: A novel class of embryo derived peptides are described (Preimplantation factor) that were generated synthetically and were tested on peripheral blood immune cells and shown to block activated but not basal immunity, inhibiting cell proliferation and creating a T2 type cytokine bias, in addition PIF enhance endometrial receptivity by increasing adhesion molecules expression. PIF biological activity appears to be exerted by specific binding to inducible receptors present on the several white cell lineages. PIF peptides, which are immune modulators therefore may have diagnostic and non toxic therapeutic applications in improving fertility, reducing pregnancy loss as well may be useful when administered for the treatment of autoimmune diseases and for prevention xenotransplants rejection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08454967&OS=08454967&RS=08454967
owner: BioIncept LLC
number: 08454967
owner_city: Cherry Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100524
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 381 818 entitled Compositions and Methods for Modulating the Immune System filed May 5 2006 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 765 400 entitled Characterization of Preimplantation Factor 1 PIF 1 An Embryo Derived Peptide with Immune Modulatory Properties filed Feb. 3 2006 U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 765 393 entitled PIF 1 An Embryo Derived Peptide Prevents Autoimmune Disease Development in Preclinical Trials filed Feb. 3 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 765 398 entitled GVHD Therapy In Cancer Patients Using PIF Preimplantation Factor A Non Toxic Embryo Derived Immunemodulatory Peptide filed Feb. 3 2006 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 746 511 entitled PIF 1 Induced Effects on PBMC Genome Alone and Following Exposure to CD3MAB CD28MAB filed May 5 2006. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 381 818 is also a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 971 760 entitled PIF Peptides Biologic Activities Site of Action and the Antibody to Detect PIF filed Oct. 22 2004 and U.S. application Ser. No. 11 110 990 entitled PIF Tetrapeptides filed Apr. 20 2005. All aforementioned applications are herein incorporated by reference in their entireties.

Mammalian pregnancy is a unique physiological event in which the maternal immune system interacts with the fetus in a very efficient manner beneficial for both parties. Pregnancy is an immune paradox displaying no graft vs. host or host vs. graft effect. The factors involved in this phenomenon are not yet fully elucidated although they have been extensively studied. The novel embryo derived factor preimplantation factor PIF 1 may cause immune tolerance of pregnancy by creating maternal recognition of pregnancy shortly after fertilization. Synthetic PIF 1 replicated the native peptide s effect and exerted potent immune modulatory effects on activated PBMC proliferation and cytokine secretion acting through novel sites on PBMC and having an effect which is distinct from known immune suppressive drugs.

There is evidence that several autoimmune diseases including multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis undergo remission during pregnancy supporting the view that there are unique protective mechanisms operative during that time period. This is particularly remarkable because the host mother is simultaneously being exposed to a semi or total allograft donor embryo without adverse immune effects.

Allogeneic bone marrow transplantation BMT is a well established treatment for malignant and non malignant hematological diseases and is performed in tens of thousands of patients each year. Mature donor T cells within the stem cell graft are the main mediators of the beneficial immune effects but they are also responsible for the induction of graft versus host disease GVHD the major cause of morbidity and mortality in BMT patients. GVHD occurs when transplanted donor derived T cells recognize proteins expressed by recipient antigen presenting cells. Consequently this recognition induces donor T cell activation proliferation and differentiation leading to a cellular and inflammatory attack on recipient target tissues. Acute or chronic GVHD occurs within a 100 day period post BMT that leads to dermatitis enteritis and hepatitis. The treatment of GVHD continues to be a challenge. To eliminate undesirable host derived hematopoietic elements before BMT patients have traditionally been treated with myeloablative conditioning regimens involving high dose chemotherapy and total body radiation. Up until now standard GVHD prophylaxis and therapy uses immune suppressive drugs steroids and Cyclosporin A that place patients in danger of opportunistic infections and tumor relapse. Numerous agents have been evaluated for GVHD unfortunately with poor outcome. Ideally prophylaxis of BMT patients by immune modulation would allow transplant acceptance while maintaining the ability to protect against pathogens or cancer.

Type 1 insulin dependent diabetes TIDM is caused by autoimmune destruction of the insulin producing pancreatic beta cells. TIDM etiology is multifactorial complex and involves a combination of genetic environmental and immunological influences. TIDM is a progressive asymptomatic decline in beta cell function until hyperglycemia develops. Near total beta cell destruction may not be universal and therefore therapeutic measures that stop destruction and perhaps lead to organ recovery could bring to major advances in TIDM management. TIDM prevention is currently suboptimal and most current therapies aim at controlling glucose levels using insulin or rarely by islet transplants. There are also attempts to initiate immune therapies using anti CD3 antibodies and anti thymocyte globulin which aim to block the autoimmune cascade when combined with repair regeneration of beta cells e.g. glulisine glucagon like peptide 1 GLP 1 extendin 4 and Dia Pep277 with limited success.

Multiple sclerosis MS is a progressive debilitating autoimmune disease of the central nervous system that has a complex etiology where genetic predisposition may be coupled with early childhood viral exposure. Consequently there is a gradual destruction of the myelin sheath that causes motor autonomic sensory dysfunction that may lead to paralysis. Current therapies are based on limiting the damage by using steroids and interferon Copaxone and monoclonal antibodies with limited success. An optimal therapy would reverse the neural damage by blocking the autoimmune cascade while allowing for myelin sheath repair. The experimental autoimmune encephalitis EAE model is widely used currently to examine experimental treatments for MS.

Ulcerative colitis UC and Crohn s disease CD the primary constituents of inflammatory bowel disease IBD are precipitated by a complex interaction of environmental genetic and immunoregulatory factors. Higher rates of IBD are seen in northern industrialized countries. IBD s are chronic inflammatory disorders of the gastrointestinal tract. Although the etiology is incompletely understood initiation and aggravation of the inflammatory process seem to be due to a massive local mucosal immune response. Cytokine mediated impairment of viability and metabolic function of epithelial cells has been suggested as a possible early pathogenic event in the development of inflammatory bowel disease IBD . Among several currently used therapies are azulphidine steroids and in more serious cases Azathioprine 6 mercaptopurine and methotrexate are appropriate. When steroids fail cyclosporine A may utilized. IBD s involve both local and systemic alteration of the immune system. In recent years several studies were carried out using peripheral immune cells as well colonic biopsies to examine the direct effect of possible therapeutic agents on the condition. Data indicates that the milieu of peripheral PBMC is altered and agents that were found to be disease modifiers by in situ testing were considered suitable for clinical application.

It has been observed that PIF has immune modulatory properties and such peptides are useful in the prevention and or treatment of various immune mediated diseases including but not limited to autoimmune disorders. Compositions and methods for treating and or preventing immune mediated disorders are provided herein.

Embodiments of the present invention provide compounds having immune modulating and or anti inflammatory activity wherein compounds of the invention include peptides and peptidomimetics. The invention further provides methods of using immune modulating and or anti inflammatory compounds of the invention.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide methods for treating a disease characterized by an immune disorder or inflammatory response by administering an amount of a PIF peptide or peptidomimetic sufficient to treat inhibit or ameliorate the disease. Such compounds are useful for treating diseases characterized by an immune disorder or inflammatory response diseases e.g. inflammation arthritis auto immune diseases collagen diseases or allergy. For example these compounds can be used to treat subjects including mammals such as humans having or at risk of having inflammation arthritis auto immune diseases collagen diseases or allergy.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to biological effects induced in vitro and or in vivo by pre implantation factor PIF peptides peptidomimetics and compounds derived from pre implantation embryos that harbors in part is identical to or is homologous to the amino acid sequence of PIF peptides or to the scrambled amino acid sequence of PIF peptides. In particular the present invention relates to use of PIF peptides or peptidomimetics to effect changes on the immune system of a patient. More specifically the addition of PIF peptides creates specific changes both in cellular immunity as well as in a patient s secreted cytokine profile.

Before the present compositions and methods are described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular molecules compositions methodologies or protocols described as these may vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention which will be limited only by the appended claims.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of embodiments of the present invention the preferred methods devices and materials are now described. All publications mentioned herein are incorporated by reference. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention.

It must also be noted that as used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a cell is a reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof known to those skilled in the art and so forth.

As used herein the term about means plus or minus 10 of the numerical value of the number with which it is being used. Therefore about 50 means in the range of 45 55 .

 Administering when used in conjunction with a therapeutic means to administer a therapeutic directly into or onto a target tissue or to administer a therapeutic to a patient whereby the therapeutic positively impacts the tissue to which it is targeted. Thus as used herein the term administering when used in conjunction with PIF can include but is not limited to providing PIF peptide into or onto the target tissue providing PIF peptide systemically to a patient by e.g. intravenous injection whereby the therapeutic reaches the target providing PIF peptide in the form of the encoding sequence thereof to the target e.g. by so called gene therapy techniques . Administering a composition may be accomplished by parenteral oral or topical administration.

As used herein the terms pharmaceutically acceptable physiologically tolerable and grammatical variations thereof as they refer to compositions carriers diluents and reagents are used interchangeably and represent that the materials are capable of administration upon a mammal without the production of undesirable physiological effects such as nausea dizziness rash or gastric upset. In a preferred embodiment the therapeutic composition is not immunogenic when administered to a subject for therapeutic purposes.

As used herein the term therapeutic means an agent utilized to treat combat ameliorate prevent or improve an unwanted condition or disease of a subject. In part embodiments of the present invention are directed to treating ameloriating preventing or improving inflammation and or an immune mediate disorder including auto immune diseases.

A therapeutically effective amount or effective amount of a composition is a predetermined amount calculated to achieve the desired effect i.e. to effectively inhibit or reduce inflammation and or an immune mediated disease. Effective amounts of compounds of the present invention can objectively or subjectively reduce or decrease the severity or frequency of symptoms associated with inflammation and or immune mediated disorders. The specific dose of a compound administered according to this invention to obtain therapeutic and or prophylactic effects will of course be determined by the particular circumstances surrounding the case including for example the compound administered the route of administration and the condition being treated. The compounds are effective over a wide dosage range and for example dosages per day will normally fall within the range of from about 0.01 mg kg to about 10 mg kg more preferably about 0.1 mg kg to about 1 mg kg. However it will be understood that the effective amount administered will be determined by the physician in the light of the relevant circumstances including the condition to be treated the choice of compound to be administered and the chosen route of administration and therefore the above dosage ranges are not intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way. A therapeutically effective amount of compound of this invention is typically an amount such that when it is administered in a physiologically tolerable excipient composition it is sufficient to achieve an effective systemic concentration or local concentration in the tissue.

The terms treat treated or treating as used herein refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological condition disorder or disease or to obtain beneficial or desired clinical results. For the purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of the extent of the condition disorder or disease stabilization i.e. not worsening of the state of the condition disorder or disease delay in onset or slowing of the progression of the condition disorder or disease amelioration of the condition disorder or disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable or enhancement or improvement of the condition disorder or disease. Treatment includes eliciting a clinically significant response without excessive levels of side effects. Treatment also includes prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment.

 Disease or disorder refers to an impairment of the normal function of an organism. As used herein a disease may be characterized by e.g. an immune disorder or an inflammatory response or a combination of these conditions.

 Immune modulating refers to the ability of a compound of the present invention to alter modulate one or more aspects of the immune system. The immune system functions to protect the organism from infection and from foreign antigens by cellular and humoral mechanisms involving lymphocytes macrophages and other antigen presenting cells that regulate each other by means of multiple cell cell interactions and by elaborating soluble factors including lymphokines and antibodies that have autocrine paracrine and endocrine effects on immune cells.

 Immune disorder refers to abnormal functioning of the immune system. Immune disorders can be caused by deficient immune responses e.g. HIV AIDS or overactive immune responses e.g. allergy auto immune disorders . Immune disorders can result in the uncontrolled proliferation of immune cells uncontrolled response to foreign antigens or organisms leading to allergic or inflammatory diseases aberrant immune responses directed against host cells leading to auto immune organ damage and dysfunction or generalized suppression of the immune response leading to severe and recurrent infections. Immune disorder refers to disorders of the innate immune system innate immunity and the adaptive immune system adaptive immunity . Innate immunity refers to an early system of defense that depends on invariant receptors recognizing common features of pathogens. The innate immune system provides barriers and mechanisms to inhibit foreign substances in particular through the action of macrophages and neutrophils. The inflammatory response is considered part of innate immunity. The innate immune system is involved in initiating adaptive immune responses and removing pathogens that have been targeted by an adaptive immune response. However innate immunity can be evaded or overcome by many pathogens and does not lead to immunological memory. Adaptive immunity refers to the ability to recognize pathogens specifically and to provide enhanced protection against reinfection due to immunological memory based on clonal selection of lymphocytes bearing antigen specific receptors. A process of random recombination of variable receptor gene segments and the pairing of different variable chains generates a population of lymphocytes each bearing a distinct receptor forming a repertoire of receptors that can recognize virtually any antigen. If the receptor on a lymphocyte is specific for a ubiquitous self antigen the cell is normally eliminated by encountering the antigen early in its development. Adaptive immunity is normally initiated when an innate immune response fails to eliminate a new infection and antigen and activated antigen presenting cells are delivered to draining lymphoid tissues. When a recirculating lymphocyte encounters its specific foreign antigen in peripheral lymphoid tissues it is induced to proliferate and its progeny then differentiate into effector cells that can eliminate the infectious agent. A subset of these proliferating lymphocytes differentiate into memory cells capable of responding rapidly to the same pathogen if it is encountered again.

Immune disorders caused by an impaired or immunocompromised immune system can produce a deficient immune response that leaves the body vulnerable to various viral bacterial or fungal opportunistic infections. Causes of immune deficiency can include various illnesses such as viruses chronic illness or immune system illnesses. Diseases characterized by an impaired immune system include but are not limited to HIV AIDS and severe combined immunodeficiency syndrome SCIDS .

Immune disorders caused by an excessive response by the immune system. This excessive response can be an excessive response to one or more antigens on a pathogen or to an antigen that would normally be ignored by the immune system. Diseases characterized by an overactive immune system include but are not limited to arthritis allergy asthma pollinosis atopy and auto immune diseases.

 Arthritis refers to inflammation of the joints that can be caused inter alia by wear and tear on joints or auto immune attack on connective tissues or exposure to an allergen e.g. as in adjuvant induced arthritis. Arthritis is often associated with or initiated by deposition of antibody antigen complexes in joint membranes and activation of an inflammatory response. Sometimes the immune response is initiated by cells rather than antibodies where the cells can produce a deposit in the joint membrane.

 Allergy refers to an immune reaction to a normally innocuous environmental antigen allergen resulting from the interaction of the antigen with antibodies or primed T cells generated by prior exposure to the same antigen. Allergy is characterized by immune and inflammatory aspects as the allergic reaction is triggered by binding of the antigen to antigen specific IgE antibodies bound to a high affinity IgE receptor on mast cells which leads to antigen induced cross linking of IgE on mast cell surfaces causing the release of large amounts of inflammatory mediators such as histamine. Later events in the allergic response involve leukotrienes cytokines and chemokines which recruit and activate eosinophils and basophils. The late phase of this response can evolve into chronic inflammation characterized by the presence of effector T cells and eosinophils which is most clearly seen in chronic allergic asthma.

 Asthma refers to a chronic inflammatory disorder affecting the bronchial tubes usually triggered or aggravated by allergens or contaminants. Asthma is characterized by constriction of the bronchial tubes producing symptoms including but not limited to cough shortness of breath wheezing excess production of mucus and chest constriction

 Atopy refers to the tendency to develop so called classic allergic diseases such as atopic dermatitis allergic rhinitis hay fever and asthma and is associated with a capacity to produce an immunoglobulin E IgE response to common allergens. Atopy is often characterized by skin allergies including but not limited to eczema urticaria and atopic dermatitis. Atopy can be caused or aggravated by inhaled allergens food allergens and skin contact with allergens but an atopic allergic reaction may occur in areas of the body other than where contact with the allergan occurred. A strong genetic inherited component of atopy is suggested by the observation that the majority of atopic dermatitis patients have at least one relative who suffers from eczema asthma or hay fever.

 Pollinosis hay fever or allergic rhinitis are terms that refer to an allergy characterized by sneezing itchy and watery eyes a runny nose and a burning sensation of the palate and throat. Often seasonal pollinosis is usually caused by allergies to airborne substances such as pollen and the disease can sometimes be aggravated in an individual by exposure to other allergens to which the individual is allergic.

 Auto immune refers to an adaptive immune response directed at self antigens. Auto immune disease refers to a condition wherein the immune system reacts to a self antigen that it would normally ignore leading to destruction of normal body tissues. Auto immune disorders are considered to be caused at least in part by a hypersensitivity reaction similar to allergies because in both cases the immune system reacts to a substance that it normally would ignore. Auto immune disorders include but are not limited to Hashimoto s thyroiditis pernicious anemia Addison s disease type I insulin dependent diabetes rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus dermatomyositis Sjogren s syndrome lupus erythematosus multiple sclerosis myasthenia gravis Reiter s syndrome and Grave s disease alopecia greata anklosing spondylitis antiphospholipid syndrome auto immune hemolytic anemia auto immune hepatitis auto immune inner ear disease auto immune lymphoproliferative syndrome ALPS auto immune thrombocytopenic purpura ATP Behcet s disease bullous pemphigoid cardiomyopathy celiac sprue dermatitis chronic fatigue syndrome immune deficiency syndrome CFIDS chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy cicatricial pemphigoid cold agglutinin disease CREST syndrome Crohn s disease Dego s disease dermatomyositis dermatomyositis discoid lupus essential mixed cryoglobulinemia fibromyalgia fibromyositis Guillain Barre syndrome idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis idiopathic thrombocytopenia purpura ITP IgA nephropathy juvenile arthritis Meniere s disease mixed connective tissue disease pemphigus vulgaris polyarteritis nodosa polychondritis polyglancular syndromes polymyalgia rheumatica polymyositis primary agammaglobulinemia primary biliary cirrhosis psoriasis Raynaud s phenomenon rheumatic fever sarcoidosis scleroderma stiff man syndrome Takayasu arteritis temporal arteritis giant cell arteritis ulcerative colitis uveitis vasculitis vitiligo and Wegener s granulomatosis.

 Collagen disease or connective tissue disease refers to a chronic inflammatory auto immune disorder in which autoantibodies attack collagen found throughout the body. Connective tissues are composed of two major structural protein molecules collagen and elastin in collagen disease autoantibodies directed against collagen will damage both collagen and elastin due to the resulting inflammation. Collagen diseases include but are not limited to lupus erythematosus Sjogren s syndrome scleroderma dermatomyositis and polyarteritis nodosa. Rheumatoid collagen disease refers to a disorder affecting the connective tissue with rheumatic symptoms including muscle stiffness soreness and pain in the joints and associated structures.

 Inflammatory response or inflammation is a general term for the local accumulation of fluid plasma proteins and white blood cells initiated by physical injury infection or a local immune response. Inflammation is an aspect of many diseases and disorders including but not limited to diseases related to immune disorders viral infection arthritis auto immune diseases collagen diseases allergy asthma pollinosis and atopy. Inflammation is characterized by rubor redness dolor pain calor heat and tumor swelling reflecting changes in local blood vessels leading to increased local blood flow which causes heat and redness migration of leukocytes into surrounding tissues extravasation and the exit of fluid and proteins from the blood and their local accumulation in the inflamed tissue which results in swelling and pain as well as the accumulation of plasma proteins that aid in host defense. These changes are initiated by cytokines produced by activated macrophages. Inflammation is often accompanied by loss of function due to replacement of parenchymal tissue with damaged tissue e.g. in damaged myocardium reflexive disuse due to pain and mechanical constraints on function e.g. when a joint swells during acute inflammation or when scar tissue bridging an inflamed joint contracts as it matures into a chronic inflammatory lesion.

 Anti inflammatory refers to the ability of a compound of the present invention to prevent or reduce the inflammatory response or to soothe inflammation by reducing the symptoms of inflammation such as redness pain heat or swelling.

Inflammatory responses can be triggered by injury for example injury to skin muscle tendons or nerves. Inflammatory responses can also be triggered as part of an immune response. Inflammatory responses can also be triggered by infection where pathogen recognition and tissue damage can initiate an inflammatory response at the site of infection. Generally infectious agents induce inflammatory responses by activating innate immunity. Inflammation combats infection by delivering additional effector molecules and cells to augment the killing of invading microorganisms by the front line macrophages by providing a physical barrier preventing the spread of infection and by promoting repair of injured tissue. Inflammatory disorder is sometimes used to refer to chronic inflammation due to any cause.

Diseases characterized by inflammation of the skin often characterized by skin rashes include but are not limited to dermatitis atopic dermatitis eczema atopy contact dermatitis dermatitis herpetiformis generalized exfoliative dermatitis seborrheic dermatitis drug rashes erythema multiforme erythema nodosum granuloma annulare poison ivy poison oak toxic epidermal necrolysis and roseacae.

Inflammation triggered by various kinds of injuries to muscles tendons or nerves caused by repetitive movement of a part of the body are generally referred to as repetitive strain injury RSI . Diseases characterized by inflammation triggered by RSI include but are not limited to bursitis carpal tunnel syndrome Dupuytren s contracture epicondylitis e.g. tennis elbow ganglion inflammation in a cyst that has formed in a tendon sheath usually occurring on the wrist rotator cuff syndrome tendinitis e.g. inflammation of the Achilles tendon tenosynovitis and trigger finger inflammation of the tendon sheaths of fingers or thumb accompanied by tendon swelling .

It is understood that the terms immune disorder and inflammatory response are not exclusive. It is understood that many immune disorders include acute short term or chronic long term inflammation. It is also understood that inflammation can have immune aspects and non immune aspects. The role s of immune and nonimmune cells in a particular inflammatory response may vary with the type of inflammatory response and may vary during the course of an inflammatory response. Immune aspects of inflammation and diseases related to inflammation can involve both innate and adaptive immunity. Certain diseases related to inflammation represent an interplay of immune and nonimmune cell interactions for example intestinal inflammation Fiocchi et al. 1997 Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol 273 G769 G775 pneumonia lung inflammation or glomerulonephritis.

It is further understood that many diseases are characterized by both an immune disorder and an inflammatory response such that the use of discrete terms immune disorder or inflammatory response is not intended to limit the scope of use or activity of the compounds of the present invention with respect to treating a particular disease. For example arthritis is considered an immune disorder characterized by inflammation of joints but arthritis is likewise considered an inflammatory disorder characterized by immune attack on joint tissues. Thus the observation that a compound of the invention reduces the inflammation seen in an animal model of arthritis does not limit the observed activity of the compound to anti inflammatory activity. In a disease having both immune and inflammatory aspects merely measuring the effects of a compound of the present invention on inflammation does not exclude the possibility that the compound may also have immune modulating activity in the same disease. Likewise in a disease having both immune and inflammatory aspects merely measuring the effects of a compound of the present invention on immune responses does not exclude the possibility that the compound may also have anti inflammatory activity in the same disease.

As used herein the terms peptide polypeptide and protein are used interchangeably and refer to two or more amino acids covalently linked by an amide bond or non amide equivalent. The peptides of the invention can be of any length. For example the peptides can have from about two to about 100 or more residues such as 5 to 12 12 to 15 15 to 18 18 to 25 25 to 50 50 to 75 75 to 100 or more in length. Preferably peptides are from about 2 to about 18 residues. The peptides of the invention include l and d isomers and combinations of l and d isomers. The peptides can include modifications typically associated with post translational processing of proteins for example cyclization e.g. disulfide or amide bond phosphorylation glycosylation carboxylation ubiquitination myristylation or lipidation.

Peptides disclosed herein further include compounds having amino acid structural and functional analogues for example peptidomimetics having synthetic or non natural amino acids or amino acid analogues so long as the mimetic has one or more functions or activities of compounds of the invention. The compounds of the invention therefore include mimetic and peptidomimetic forms.

The terms mimetic peptide mimetic and peptidomimetic are used interchangeably herein and generally refer to a peptide partial peptide or non peptide molecule that mimics the tertiary binding structure or activity of a selected native peptide or protein functional domain e.g. binding motif or active site . These peptide mimetics include recombinantly or chemically modified peptides as well as non peptide agents such as small molecule drug mimetics as further described below.

In one embodiment the PIF peptides of the invention are modified to produce peptide mimetics by replacement of one or more naturally occurring side chains of the 20 genetically encoded amino acids or D amino acids with other side chains for instance with groups such as alkyl lower alkyl cyclic 4 5 6 to 7 membered alkyl amide amide lower alkyl amide di lower alkyl lower alkoxy hydroxy carboxy and the lower ester derivatives thereof and with 4 5 6 to 7 membered heterocyclics. For example proline analogs can be made in which the ring size of the proline residue is changed from 5 members to 4 6 or 7 members. Cyclic groups can be saturated or unsaturated and if unsaturated can be aromatic or nonaromatic. Heterocyclic groups can contain one or more nitrogen oxygen and or sulphur heteroatoms. Examples of such groups include the furazanyl furyl imidazolidinyl imidazolyl imidazolinyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl morpholinyl e.g. morpholino oxazolyl piperazinyl e.g. 1 piperazinyl piperidyl e.g. 1 piperidyl piperidino pyranyl pyrazinyl pyrazolidinyl pyrazolinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrrolidinyl e.g. 1 pyrrolidinyl pyrrolinyl pyrrolyl thiadiazolyl thiazolyl thienyl thiomorpholinyl e.g. thiomorpholino and triazolyl. These heterocyclic groups can be substituted or unsubstituted. Where a group is substituted the substituent can be alkyl alkoxy halogen oxygen or substituted or unsubstituted phenyl. Peptidomimetics may also have amino acid residues that have been chemically modified by phosphorylation sulfonation biotinylation or the addition or removal of other moieties.

A variety of techniques are available for constructing peptide mimetics with the same or similar desired biological activity as the corresponding native but with more favorable activity than the peptide with respect to solubility stability and or susceptibility to hydrolysis or proteolysis see e.g. Morgan Gainor Ann. Rep. Med. Chem. 24 243 252 1989 . Certain peptidomimetic compounds are based upon the amino acid sequence of the peptides of the invention. Often peptidomimetic compounds are synthetic compounds having a three dimensional structure i.e. a peptide motif based upon the three dimensional structure of a selected peptide. The peptide motif provides the peptidomimetic compound with the desired biological activity i.e. binding to PIF receptors wherein the binding activity of the mimetic compound is not substantially reduced and is often the same as or greater than the activity of the native peptide on which the mimetic is modeled. Peptidomimetic compounds can have additional characteristics that enhance their therapeutic application such as increased cell permeability greater affinity and or avidity and prolonged biological half life.

Peptidomimetic design strategies are readily available in the art see e.g. Ripka Rich Curr. Op. Chem. Biol. 2 441 452 1998 Hruby et al. Curr. Op. Chem. Biol. 1 114 119 1997 Hruby Balse Curr. Med. Chem. 9 945 970 2000 . One class of peptidomimetics a backbone that is partially or completely non peptide but mimics the peptide backbone atom for atom and comprises side groups that likewise mimic the functionality of the side groups of the native amino acid residues. Several types of chemical bonds e.g. ester thioester thioamide retroamide reduced carbonyl dimethylene and ketomethylene bonds are known in the art to be generally useful substitutes for peptide bonds in the construction of protease resistant peptidomimetics. Another class of peptidomimetics comprises a small non peptide molecule that binds to another peptide or protein but which is not necessarily a structural mimetic of the native peptide. Yet another class of peptidomimetics has arisen from combinatorial chemistry and the generation of massive chemical libraries. These generally comprise novel templates which though structurally unrelated to the native peptide possess necessary functional groups positioned on a nonpeptide scaffold to serve as topographical mimetics of the original peptide Ripka Rich 1998 supra .

The first natural PIF compound identified termed nPIF 1 SEQ ID NO 1 is a 15 amino acid peptide. A synthetic version of this peptide sPIF 1 SEQ ID NO 13 showed activity that was similar to the native peptide nPIF 1 SEQ ID NO 1 . This peptide is homologous to a small region of the Circumsporozoite protein a malaria parasite. The second PIF peptide nPIF 2 SEQ ID NO 7 includes 13 amino acids and shares homology with a short portion of a large protein named thyroid and retinoic acid transcription co repressor which is identified as a receptor interacting factor SMRT the synthetic version is sPIF 2 SEQ ID NO 14 . The third distinct peptide nPIF 3 SEQ ID NO 10 consists of 18 amino acids and matches a small portion of reverse transcriptase the synthetic version of this peptide sPIF 3is SEQ ID NO 15 . nPIF 4 SEQ ID NO 12 shares homology with a small portion of reverse transcriptase.

A list of PIF peptides both natural and synthetic are provided below in Table 1. Antibodies to various PIF peptides and scrambled PIF peptides are also provided.

In one embodiment of the present invention a PIF peptide is provided. Such PIF peptides may be useful for treating or ameliorating immune mediated disorders such as autoimmune diseases.

In another embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprising a PIF peptide is provided. In preferred embodiments the pharmaceutical composition comprises an effective amount of a PIF peptide.

In another embodiment a method of treating or preventing immune mediated disorders is provided. In a preferred embodiment the method comprises administering an effective amount of a PIF peptide to a subject in need thereof. The methods are particularly useful in treating or preventing immune mediated disorders including but not limited to graft versus host disease type 1 diabetes multiple sclerosis ulcerative colitis Crohn s disease rheumatoid arthritis and the like.

In a further embodiment a method for treating or preventing immune mediated disorders comprising administering an effective amount of a PIF peptide in combination with one or more immunotherapeutic drugs to a subject in need thereof is provided. Such a combination may enhance the effectiveness of the treatment of either component alone or may provide less side effects and or enable a lower dose of either component.

The present data demonstrate that short term exposure to PIF 1 at low doses is associated with a long term protection against development of autoimmune disorders of disparate origin. While not wishing to be bound by theory based on the currently understood aspects of PIF 1 s mechanism of action the peptide appears to act independently of the type of pathophysiological features of the autoimmune disease examined addressing them in an etiology independent manner. This agrees with the properties of PIF 1 following examination of its effects on PBMC. PIF 1 was found to have widespread modulatory effects on cellular immunology as well as on cytokine production and secretion acting through specific inducible receptors present on subtypes of PBMC. PIF 1 appears to affect disparate aspects of immunity since it responds to various mitogen challenge PHA CD3MAb CD3MAb CD28MAb and MLR. PIF 1 exposure blocks activated but not basal PBMC proliferation. In addition while there was some bias towards T2 PIF 1 caused an increase in both T1 and T2 cytokines following mitogen exposure. This may indicate that PIF 1 helps to maintain the balance between the two immune modalities not allowing either extreme inflammation or immune suppression. By blocking activated but not basal immunity the ability to respond to an immunogenic challenge such as pathogen exposure and or maternal rejection is well maintained. This may explain the significant efficacy observed in the current mouse studies. Overall PIF 1 s mechanism of action is distinct from other currently used immune suppressive agents.

The three autoimmune models studied are quite distinct BMT replicates exposure of the model organism to foreign immune cells as would be the case in GVHD NOD replicates Type 1 diabetes induced by a specific attack on the pancreas by transplanted foreign T cells and EAE models MS by stimulating a bacterial toxin and protein immunogen attack on the nervous tissue of the brain. However all of the models are characterized by an induced immune response against the host organism and consequently to the autoimmune induced destruction of vital organs and ultimately death. PIF 1 appears to successfully neutralize the initiation of this cascade irrespective of the initiating insult. This can be analogized to pregnancy in which the embryo is tolerated by the mother but the mother remains able to respond adequately to pathogens. Pregnancy may also leave the mother less susceptible to autoimmunity and malignancy to some degree. Therefore recreating an environment where select cells are tolerated while pathogens are attacked in a non pregnancy setting may be the central mechanism of PIF 1 s action in autoimmune model systems.

In all three models efficacy was obtained in low doses 0.1 1 mg kg day. By contrast somewhat lower efficacy is observed at higher dosing in two models NOD 2.73 mg kg day and BMT 5 mg kg day . This agrees with in vitro data where maximal PIF 1 efficacy was found at 1 50 nM concentrations while higher doses were either less effective or not effective at all. This further suggests a receptor dependent mechanism of action that is mostly responsive at a narrow range of concentrations and otherwise may be down regulated when concentrations are raised beyond optimal levels. These observations strongly indicate that PIF exerts this biphasic effect through physiological and not pharmacological mechanisms.

While the mechanism for the long term protective effect of PIF 1 as seen in these autoimmune models is not clear and without wishing to be bound by theory it appears that PIF 1 initiates following mitogen exposure a time dependent block of proliferation and leads to a cascade of T1 and T2 cytokine secretion some being secreted earlier while others later. Such sequential effects may lead to a long term modification of the immune environment.

PIF 1 appears to act through putatively novel receptors that are predominantly expressed on monocytes and macrophages. However when stimulated by mitogens the expression of these receptors becomes significant on T and B Cells but not NK cells. Differences in the expression pattern of PIF 1 receptors may explain the differences in the response induced by PIF 1 seen in un stimulated and stimulated environments. In an un stimulated environment PIF 1 may only have a low level of activity on T and B Cells. However activation of the immune system in response to an immune system challenge may lead to the expression of the PIF 1 receptors on T and B Cells initiating long term tolerance.

PIF 1 s action appears to be independent of TCR calcium channels or PKC pathways mechanisms through which most immune suppressive agents act and CD4 CD25 cells T reg cells that are of relevance in various autoimmune diseases. On the other hand PIF 1 s action may involve NFAT 1 suppression.

In pregnancy embryo viability is dependent on maternal tolerance of the embryo but there is a clear time lag between embryo expulsion by miscarriage and reduction of PIF levels in maternal circulation. In fact PIF disappears from maternal circulation up to three weeks before maternal human chorionic gonadotropin hCG levels dropped and miscarriage ensues. Perhaps a similar mechanism is involved in maintaining tolerance or protective effects against autoimmunity long term as is documented in the three model systems tested following cessation of therapy.

In a preliminary study the effect of PIF 1 administration using an Alzet pump for 7 days after mating on implantation rates in mice was examined. As expected PIF 1 did not exert any adverse effects. Moreover PIF 1 may have actually increased the rates of fetal survival vs. control by day 13 of pregnancy as documented at the time of Ceasarean section. This data combined with the additional six animal trials provides a strong support for the lack of PIF 1 toxicity.

We also found that FITC PIF 1 injected IV in mice accumulated in the spleen and was cleared from circulation into the kidney within minutes. This shows that PIF 1 specifically targets immune cells of the spleen in vivo and has a short half life in circulation. The long term effect of PIF administration may reflect a pharmacodynamic type of mechanism since the peptide has a short half life rather than a pharmacologic effect that is produced while the drug is given and is dependent on the levels of the drug in the circulation.

The observations that PIF 1 exerts long term protection after short term exposure in all three models tested raises the possibility that PIF 1 therapy could be used for long term management of patients with autoimmune diseases perhaps initially using an insulin pump that could replicate the function of an Alzet pump followed by periodic PIF 1 administration over a long term. Other devices capable of continuous and or long term administration may also be useful. In addition it may be possible to develop an increased half life modified peptide such as by PEGylation and or to use transdermal delivery system for long term but minimally invasive use. Finally due to PIF 1 s simple structure and small size in which shorter versions of the peptide are similarly effective at least in vitro oral delivery may become possible which could transform PIF 1 into a convenient chronic therapy.

Ultimately a novel embryo derived peptide PIF creates a tolerogenic state at low doses following short term treatment leading to long term protection in several distinct severe autoimmune models. This effect is exerted without apparent toxicity.

For therapeutic treatment of the specified indications a PIF peptide may be administered as such or can be compounded and formulated into pharmaceutical compositions in unit dosage form for parenteral transdermal rectal nasal local intravenous administration or preferably oral administration. Such pharmaceutical compositions are prepared in a manner well known in the art and comprise at least one active PIF peptide associated with a pharmaceutically carrier. The term active compound as used throughout this specification refers to at least one compound selected from compounds of the formulas or pharmaceutically acceptable salts thereof.

In such a composition the active compound is known as active ingredient. In making the compositions the active ingredient will usually be mixed with a carrier or diluted by a carrier or enclosed within a carrier that may be in the form of a capsule sachet paper or other container. When the carrier serves as a diluent it may be a solid semisolid or liquid material that acts as a vehicle excipient of medium for the active ingredient. Thus the composition can be in the form of tablets pills powders lozenges sachets cachets elixirs emulsions solutions syrups suspensions soft and hard gelatin capsules sterile injectable solutions and sterile packaged powders.

Some examples of suitable carriers excipients and diluents include lactose dextrose sucrose sorbitol mannitol starches gum acacia calcium phosphate alginates calcium salicate microcrystalline cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone cellulose tragacanth gelatin syrup methyl cellulose methyl and propylhydroxybenzoates talc magnesium stearate water and mineral oil. The formulations can additionally include lubricating agents wetting agents emulsifying and suspending agents preserving agents sweetening agents or flavoring agents. The compositions may be formulated so as to provide quick sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after administration to the patient by employing procedures well known in the art.

For oral administration a compound can be admixed with carriers and diluents molded into tablets or enclosed in gelatin capsules. The mixtures can alternatively be dissolved in liquids such as 10 aqueous glucose solution isotonic saline sterile water or the like and administered intravenously or by injection.

The local delivery of inhibitory amounts of active compound for the treatment of immune disorders can be by a variety of techniques that administer the compound at or near the targeted site. Examples of local delivery techniques are not intended to be limiting but to be illustrative of the techniques available. Examples include local delivery catheters site specific carriers implants direct injection or direct applications such as topical application.

Local delivery by an implant describes the surgical placement of a matrix that contains the pharmaceutical agent into the affected site. The implanted matrix releases the pharmaceutical agent by diffusion chemical reaction or solvent activators.

For example in some aspects the invention is directed to a pharmaceutical composition comprising a PIF peptide and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent or an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a PIF peptide.

The compounds of the present invention can be administered in the conventional manner by any route where they are active. Administration can be systemic topical or oral. For example administration can be but is not limited to parenteral subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intraperitoneal transdermal oral buccal ocular routes intravaginally by inhalation by depot injections or by implants. Thus modes of administration for the compounds of the present invention either alone or in combination with other pharmaceuticals can be but are not limited to sublingual injectable including short acting depot implant and pellet forms injected subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by use of vaginal creams suppositories pessaries vaginal rings rectal suppositories intrauterine devices and transdermal forms such as patches and creams.

Specific modes of administration will depend on the indication. The selection of the specific route of administration and the dose regimen is to be adjusted or titrated by the clinician according to methods known to the clinician in order to obtain the optimal clinical response. The amount of compound to be administered is that amount which is therapeutically effective. The dosage to be administered will depend on the characteristics of the subject being treated e.g. the particular mammal or human treated age weight health types of concurrent treatment if any and frequency of treatments and can be easily determined by one of skill in the art e.g. by the clinician .

Pharmaceutical formulations containing the compounds of the present invention and a suitable carrier can be solid dosage forms which include but are not limited to tablets capsules cachets pellets pills powders and granules topical dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions powders fluid emulsions fluid suspensions semi solids ointments pastes creams gels and jellies and foams and parenteral dosage forms which include but are not limited to solutions suspensions emulsions and dry powder comprising an effective amount of a polymer or copolymer of the present invention. It is also known in the art that the active ingredients can be contained in such formulations with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents fillers disintegrants binders lubricants surfactants hydrophobic vehicles water soluble vehicles emulsifiers buffers humectants moisturizers solubilizers preservatives and the like. The means and methods for administration are known in the art and an artisan can refer to various pharmacologic references for guidance. For example Banker Rhodes Marcel Dekker Inc. 1979 and 6th Edition MacMillan Publishing Co. New York 1980 can be consulted.

The compounds of the present invention can be formulated for parenteral administration by injection e.g. by bolus injection or continuous infusion. The compounds can be administered by continuous infusion subcutaneously over a predetermined period of time. Formulations for injection can be presented in unit dosage form e.g. in ampoules or in multi dose containers with an added preservative. The compositions can take such forms as suspensions solutions or emulsions in oily or aqueous vehicles and can contain formulatory agents such as suspending stabilizing and or dispersing agents.

For oral administration the compounds can be formulated readily by combining these compounds with pharmaceutically acceptable carriers well known in the art. Such carriers enable the compounds of the invention to be formulated as tablets pills dragees capsules liquids gels syrups slurries suspensions and the like for oral ingestion by a patient to be treated. Pharmaceutical preparations for oral use can be obtained by adding a solid excipient optionally grinding the resulting mixture and processing the mixture of granules after adding suitable auxiliaries if desired to obtain tablets or dragee cores. Suitable excipients include but are not limited to fillers such as sugars including but not limited to lactose sucrose mannitol and sorbitol cellulose preparations such as but not limited to maize starch wheat starch rice starch potato starch gelatin gum tragacanth methyl cellulose hydroxypropylmethyl cellulose sodium carboxymethylcellulose and polyvinylpyrrolidone PVP . If desired disintegrating agents can be added such as but not limited to the cross linked polyvinyl pyrrolidone agar or alginic acid or a salt thereof such as sodium alginate.

Dragee cores can be provided with suitable coatings. For this purpose concentrated sugar solutions can be used which can optionally contain gum arabic talc polyvinyl pyrrolidone carbopol gel polyethylene glycol and or titanium dioxide lacquer solutions and suitable organic solvents or solvent mixtures. Dyestuffs or pigments can be added to the tablets or dragee coatings for identification or to characterize different combinations of active compound doses.

Pharmaceutical preparations which can be used orally include but are not limited to push fit capsules made of gelatin as well as soft sealed capsules made of gelatin and a plasticizer such as glycerol or sorbitol. The push fit capsules can contain the active ingredients in admixture with filler such as e.g. lactose binders such as e.g. starches and or lubricants such as e.g. talc or magnesium stearate and optionally stabilizers. In soft capsules the active compounds can be dissolved or suspended in suitable liquids such as fatty oils liquid paraffin or liquid polyethylene glycols. In addition stabilizers can be added. All formulations for oral administration should be in dosages suitable for such administration.

For buccal administration the compositions can take the form of e.g. tablets or lozenges formulated in a conventional manner.

For administration by inhalation the compounds for use according to the present invention are conveniently delivered in the form of an aerosol spray presentation from pressurized packs or a nebulizer with the use of a suitable propellant e.g. dichlorodifluoromethane trichlorofluoromethane dichlorotetrafluoroethane carbon dioxide or other suitable gas. In the case of a pressurized aerosol the dosage unit can be determined by providing a valve to deliver a metered amount. Capsules and cartridges of e.g. gelatin for use in an inhaler or insufflator can be formulated containing a powder mix of the compound and a suitable powder base such as lactose or starch.

The compounds of the present invention can also be formulated in rectal compositions such as suppositories or retention enemas e.g. containing conventional suppository bases such as cocoa butter or other glycerides.

In addition to the formulations described previously the compounds of the present invention can also be formulated as a depot preparation. Such long acting formulations can be administered by implantation for example subcutaneously or intramuscularly or by intramuscular injection.

Depot injections can be administered at about 1 to about 6 months or longer intervals. Thus for example the compounds can be formulated with suitable polymeric or hydrophobic materials for example as an emulsion in an acceptable oil or ion exchange resins or as sparingly soluble derivatives for example as a sparingly soluble salt.

In transdermal administration the compounds of the present invention for example can be applied to a plaster or can be applied by transdermal therapeutic systems that are consequently supplied to the organism.

Pharmaceutical compositions of the compounds also can comprise suitable solid or gel phase carriers or excipients. Examples of such carriers or excipients include but are not limited to calcium carbonate calcium phosphate various sugars starches cellulose derivatives gelatin and polymers such as e.g. polyethylene glycols.

The compounds of the present invention can also be administered in combination with other active ingredients such as for example adjuvants or other compatible drugs or compounds where such combination is seen to be desirable or advantageous in achieving the desired effects of the methods described herein.

This invention and embodiments illustrating the method and materials used may be further understood by reference to the following non limiting examples.

Peptide synthesis Synthetic PIF 1 MVRIKPGSANKPSDD was obtained by solid phase peptide synthesis Peptide Synthesizer Applied Biosystems employing Fmoc 9 fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl chemistry. Final purification is carried out by reverse phase HPLC and identity is verified by MALDI TOF mass spectrometry and amino acid analysis and purified to 95 by HPLC and documented by mass spectrometry Biosynthesis Texas .

Mice C57BL 6 H 2b male and female and C57BL 6 BALB c F1 H 2d b male five to six week old mice GVHD studies and seven to eight week old SJL mice MS studies were purchased from Harlan Israel and male and female seven to eight week old NOD mice were obtained from Jackson Laboratories Maine . All mice were maintained under conditions approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee of the Hebrew University in Jerusalem in accordance with the national laws and regulations for protection of animals.

GvHD model Recipients C57BL 6 BALB c F1 mice received lethal whole body irradiation by a single dose of 1000 rad dose and were reconstituted with 5 8 10C57BL 6 bone marrow BM cells and 10 20 10spleen cells. BM from C57BL 6 donor mice was collected by flushing of femur humerus and tibia into 10 FCS PBS. BM mononuclear cells were isolated from the interface after centrifugation on a Ficoll Hipaque gradient. Spleens were crushed through 70 m screens into 10 FCS PBS. BM cells plus spleen cells were inoculated intravenously into whole body irradiated mice one day post radiation. PIF 1 therapy 0.1 1 mg kg day was administered in three separate animal trials 5 10 group vs. control by implanting under anesthesia an Alzet pump in the dorsal subcutaneous region at the day of transplant for one to two weeks providing continuous release of PIF 1. Evaluation of GvHD model animals was carried out by examining body weight skin lesions animal survival and histological examination. Animal weight was examined every three days following BM transplantation scoring for skin manifestations of GVHD was carried out from day 12 post BMT up to four months. Skin and liver samples were fixed in 10 formalin embedded in paraffin and stained with hematoxylin and eosin and evaluated for ulcers in the former and lymphocyte infiltration in the latter. Results were evaluated by and ANOVA.

Assay for chimerism Mice were anesthetized and blood taken from the retro orbital sinus of the eye. WBC 2 8 10 sample were separated directly stained with anti H 2K FITC IgG or anti H 2K FITC IgG monoclonal antibodies mAb Serotec USA and analyzed by FACS analysis FACStar plus Becton Dickinson San Jose Calif. USA . Background binding of each H 2K specific mAb was determined by staining with it the cells of non relevant haplotype.

GVHD Model experiment I. Following low burden BMT GVHD development was examined following PIF 1 therapy 0.1 1 mg kg day given for one week using an implanted Alzet pump followed by one month observation. Of the PIF 1 treated mice 0.1 or 1 mg kg day for one week all eight mice did not develop GVHD. Four out of five controls developed GVHD grade II III P

GVHD Model experiment II . We examined whether PIF 1 could prevent GVHD development in a higher burden BMT double number of spleen cells transplanted than the low burden BMT . Following exposure to PIF 1 0.1 1 mg kg day for two weeks total protection against GVHD was obtained within three weeks with the high dose therapy 7 7 vs. 9 9 in control with GVHD. This protection remained also significant P

GVHD Model experiment III . We examined whether short term treatment can lead to long term survival after cessation of therapy. Following high burden BMT PIF 1 1 5 mg kg day for two weeks was administered and mice were followed for an additional three and one half months without therapy. PIF 1 conferred a significant protection as determined by mouse survival at the end of the observation period. Seven of nine of the PIF 1 treated mice survived compared to only two out of ten in controls P

Allo BMT followed destruction of the host s immune system by total body radiation. Thereby the BMT recipient is highly vulnerable to immune attack by the transplanted foreign immune cells. Low dose micromolar PIF 1 administration totally prevented GVHD while therapy was administered. More remarkably long term protection after cessation of therapy was obtained as reflected by the significant prevention of GVHD development and long term survival for several months vs. control mice. This effect was not associated with any toxicity as documented by mouse weight skin appearance and skin and liver histology. This was also documented by the significant degree of chimerism about 90 that developed in the peripheral PBMC within five weeks following BMT indicating that at that time the great majority of the mice immune system was constituted of the transplanted BM.

PIF 1 s long term protective effect after cessation of therapy is particularly significant as other BMT therapies are effective only during active administration. Furthermore the current BMT model involved a clear mismatch between the recipient and the donor and large quantities of cells were transplanted while clinical settings use closely matched BM donors which nevertheless often up to 70 results in various degrees of GVHD.

DM adoptive transfer NOD model. Male NOD mice were irradiated 650 rad and injected IV next day with 250 Mil spleen cells collected from female NOD diabetic mice. PIF 1 was injected in two doses 0.83 mg kg day N 5 and 2.73 mg kg day N 7 for 28 days using an Alzet pump implanted subcutaneously providing continuous release of the peptide followed by a 40 day observation period. Animals were monitored for DM development by determining fasting glucose levels in both blood and urine. Results were evaluated using ANOVA.

NOD diabetes model. We examined the effect of PIF 1 in a different autoimmune model NOD adoptive transfer. In this model transfer of diabetic splenocytes from female to male mice leads progressively to the development of diabetes mellitus. Exposure to PIF 1 0.83 2.73 mg kg day for the first 28 days had a long term protective effect against the destruction of pancreatic cells and the consequent high serum glucose levels. shows a life table analysis of NOD mice following adoptive transfer of splenocytes from a diabetic female mouse. By 70 days at the conclusion of the experiment PIF 1 was totally protective in 11 12 of mice treated with PIF 1 while 6 7 in the control group has already developed diabetes. Interestingly the only PIF 1 treated mouse that developed DM received a higher treatment dose. The development of diabetes was documented by increased serum glucose levels in certain control animals it reached 600 mg dl. Table 2 below shows individual mice glucose levels after cessation of therapy.

In the control group most mice developed diabetes by 40 days. Additionally histological examination demonstrated that PIF treated mice were protected against inflammation of the pancreas v. control data not shown .

To further document PIF 1 s immune modulatory effects we used the NOD mouse adoptive transfer model which results in the development of diabetes reflected by high glucose levels due to the destruction of the recipient s pancreas by transfer of autoreactive splenocytes from a diabetic mouse that targets specifically that organ. Using this aggressive model we documented a long term protection against DM development using PIF 1 therapy. These results open the possibility of examining young adults that have recently developed DM in whom there has not been a total destruction of insulin producing pancreas cells. Such an early intervention could lead to a decreased need for insulin administration or even allow long term oral anti diabetic therapy. Since we found that PIF 1 targets isolated splenocytes that provides a rationale for the protective effects that were observed. In TIDM primed T cells and macrophages directly attack the pancreas which is followed by local increase in T1 cytokines i.e. TNF interferon that further amplify the auto destructive process. PIF 1 may act on both of these aspects of autoimmunity by blocking activated immune cells proliferation activation and modulating cytokines secretion towards a T2 pattern i.e. major increase in IL10 .

MS EAE model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis SJL mice 7 8 weeks old were injected in the tail base with 1 1 of 200 g proteolytic protein peptide PLP together with 200 g CFA and IFA containing . On the same day and two days later mice were injected IP with 250 ng pertussis toxin. Within nine days animals started developing paralysis. PIF 1 was administered using a subcutaneously implanted Alzet pump at 0.75 mg kg day for 28 days and its effect was compared to a control group. Daily monitoring of the degree of paralysis grade 0 no disease 5 dead animal occurred up to 40 days. PIF 1 s protective effects were calculated using the Mann Whitney non parametric test.

MS model. We further examined whether PIF 1 therapy could be effective in an additional autoimmune model experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis EAE in which the majority of the damage occurs in poorly accessible region of the body the central nervous system. By exposing mice to a combination of a toxic agent PLP for the nervous system together with boosting further the inflammatory response with two additional types of bacterial toxins led to rapid paralysis 

The experimental myeloencephalitis EAE is recognized as a highly relevant and acute model for MS. The exposure to auto antigens coupled by induction with two bacterial immunogens leads to progressive paralysis within short term. We found that PIF 1 led to a significant reduction in the paralysis score across the observation period which persisted even two weeks after cessation of therapy. This is an indication that autoimmune neurological disorders may be alleviated by PIF 1. Additionally histological examination demonstrated that PIF treated mice were protected against inflammation of the spinal cord v. control data not shown .

MS is believed to be the result of a genetic predisposition followed by a viral insult that leads to CD4 autoreactive cells followed by differentiation to the T1 phenotype. On the other hand local damage to central nervous system may occur by CD8 T cells and other elements that are involved in the innate immune system. This leads to altered T2 cytokines regulatory T and NK cells and IFN secretion. We have previously shown that several elements of this immune cascade are modulated by PIF 1 consequently the tolerogenic peptide may be involved in one or more aspects of this immune disorder.

To determine maximally tolerated dose of PIF 1 in patients who develop GVHD after matched BMT using an insulin pump. Recipients with grade II GVHD will be randomized into three groups 1 continue conventional therapy i.e. steroids and cyclosporin A as control 2 add PIF 1 therapy while continuing conventional therapy and 3 stop conventional therapy and use PIF 1 alone. Patients will be continuously treated for 4 weeks using an insulin pump with 30 dose increments 15 patients group. Pre therapy clinical indices including tumor burden will be compared to the same indices during post PIF 1 exposure monitoring skin for lesions and testing organ function including PBMC ability to respond to mitogen challenge.

To examine PIF 1 s effectiveness in GVHD prevention with maintained anticancer effect. Upon successful completion of the first study BMT recipients will be randomized into three different groups 1 conventional therapy control 2 conventional prophylaxis of GVHD combined with PIF 1 3 PIF 1 prophylaxis alone. At transplant patients will begin PIF 1 therapy using an insulin pump at 30 increments for 12 weeks followed by 3 months observation 15 patients group. The number of patients that develop GVHD the degree of the reaction and response to cancer will be compared between the two test groups.

Assess effect of PIF on PBMC isolated from patients with Chron s disease. Established patients PBMC N 20 will be isolated and cultured in the presence of PIF alone using a dose dependent design and in presence of PHA or CD3MAb CD28Mab used as mitogens using Cloning media serum free. After 24 hours of exposure PBMC culture media will be collected and tested for a cytokine release both TH1 and TH2 using the Luminex 10 package b PIF receptor expression exposing to FITC PIF and labeled CD14 CD4 CD8 or CD58 or CD19MAb followed by flow cytometry c in selective cases mRNA will be extracted and using an Affymetrix chip global genome analysis will be carried out. Results will be compared with PBMC similarly treated derived from normal volunteers.

Assess effect of PIF on colon biopsy of patients with Chron s disease. In parallel to obtaining PBMC also biopsies from the same patients will be obtained during colonoscopy. Biopsy samples will be placed in culture to generate explants using RPMI1640 medium. Explant cultures will be carried out for 24 hours in the presence of PIF 0 200 nM. Subsequently the media will be collected and analyzed for cytokines using the 10 multiplex Luminex system TH1 and TH2 . The tissue itself will be placed in formalin and will be analyzed for cytokine content using IHC as well as immune cell type presence using flow cytometry and specific CD markers.

Although the present invention has been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments thereof other versions are possible. Therefore the spirit and scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description and the preferred versions contain within this specification.

