---

title: Technology evaluation and selection application
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to systems, methods, and computer program products for evaluating and selecting technology. Specifically, present embodiments provide for assessing the relative importance of various capabilities and constraints to determine weighting factors and applying the weighting factors to potential technology solutions rated in terms of the applicability of the capabilities and constraints. The result is a capability fit score and a constraint fit score for each potential technology solution, which can be combined to form an overall technology fit score for each potential technology solution. Thus, present embodiments assess capabilities and constraints of various potential technology solutions and balance the capabilities and constraints to result in a quantitatively measurement of which technology solution is the best fit for the project at hand.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321363&OS=08321363&RS=08321363
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08321363
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100728
---
In general embodiments of the invention relate to methods systems apparatus and computer program products for evaluating potential technology solutions and more particularly determining the capabilities and constraints associated with potential technology solutions and determining an overall technology fit score for each potential technology solution based on the capabilities and constraints.

The selection of a technology solution from amongst various different potential technology solutions is typically accomplished by interviewing associates or other stakeholders associated with a project to assess the project s requirements. Once the requirements of the project are known technology solutions are identified that meet the project s requirements. Typically the technology solution that comes closest to meeting all of the project s requirements is the solution that is chosen for the project.

However such a means for selecting a technology solution fails to assess the importance of technology capabilities and technology constraints as they apply to each of the potential technology solutions and the project at hand. While technology capabilities favorable affect the project technological constraints adversely affect the project therefore the desire is to maximize capabilities while minimizing constraints. If selection of technology solutions is limited to project requirements without consideration of capabilities and constraints associated with the solutions the resulting technology solution that is selected may not be the best technological fit for the project.

Therefore a need exists to develop a system for technology evaluation and selection that takes into account project s importance of technology capabilities and technology constraints. The desired system should balance the technology capabilities with the technology constraints to provide for technology evaluation. In addition the desired system should provide for a qualitative result that measures the overall technology fit for various potential technology solutions in terms of their respective capabilities and constraints and the importance the capabilities and constraints for a particular project.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for a technology evaluation and selection. Embodiments herein disclose determine the importance of specific capabilities and constraints and assign a relative weight to each capability and constraint in relation to their importance. Capability and constraint fit analysis is performed based on rating the applicability of each capability and constraint to various potential technology solutions resulting in a capability fit score and a constraint fit score for each of the potential technology solutions. The capability fit score and the constraint fit score for a given potential technology solution can be properly weighted to result in an overall technology fit score for each of the potential technology solutions. The overall technology fit score takes into account the project s relative importance of specific capabilities and constraints and provides a quantitative means of distinguishing between potential technology solutions.

An apparatus for technology evaluation defines first embodiments of the invention. The apparatus includes a computing device including a memory and at least one processor. The apparatus additionally includes a technology evaluation application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to provide technology evaluations for specified projects requiring technology. The technology evaluation application includes a capability weighting routine that is configured to receive a capability importance indicator for each of a plurality of predefined capabilities in comparison to each of the other capabilities and determine a capability weighting for each of the capabilities based on the capability importance indicators. The application additionally includes a constraint weighting routine configured to receive a constraint importance indicator for each of the plurality of predefined constraints in comparison to each of the other constraints and determine a constraint weighting for each of the constraints based on the constraint importance indicators.

The technology evaluation application also includes a capability fit score routine configured to receive a capability applicability rating for each of a plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of the predetermined capabilities and determine a capability fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on associated capability applicability ratings and associated capability weightings. In addition the application includes a constraint fit score routine configured to receive a constraint applicability rating for each of the plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of the predetermined constraints and determine a constraint fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on associated constraint applicability ratings and associated constraint weightings.

The technology evaluation application additionally includes a technology fit score routine configured to determine a technology fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on an associated capability fit score and an associated constraint fit score.

In specific embodiments of the apparatus the technology evaluation application further includes a technology evaluation spreadsheet mechanism configured to include the capability fit score routine the constraint fit score routine and the technology fit score routine. In other related embodiments of the apparatus the technology evaluation application further includes a capability importance spreadsheet mechanism configured to include the capability weighting routine and a constraint importance spreadsheet mechanism configured to include the constraint weighting routine.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the capability weighting routine is further configured to implement Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP to determine the capability weightings. In still further related embodiments of the apparatus the constraint weighting routine is further configured to implement Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP to determine the constraint weightings.

In yet other specific embodiments of the apparatus the capability weighting routine is further configured to receive the capability importance indicator wherein the capability importance indicator is one of 1 much more important 2 more important 3 equally important 4 less important or 5 much less important. While in other related embodiments of the apparatus the constraint weighting routine is further configured to receive the constraint importance indicator wherein the constraint importance indicator is one of 1 much more constraining 2 more constraining 3 equally constraining 4 less constraining or 5 much less constraining.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus the capability fit score routine is further configured to determine the plurality capability fit scores by multiplying for each capability the capability weighting by the capability applicability rating to result in a product summing the products and dividing the sum by a highest valued capability applicability rating to result in the capability fit score. In other related specific embodiments the constraint fit score routine is further configured to determine the plurality constraint fit scores by multiplying for each constraint the constraint weighting by the constraint applicability rating to result in a product summing the products and dividing the sum by a highest valued constraint applicability rating to result in the constraint fit score.

Moreover in other specific embodiments of the apparatus the technology fit score routine is further configured to determine a technology constraint fit scores by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a first weighting factor from the capability fit score or a technology capability fit score by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a second weighting factor from the constraint fit score. The first weighting factor and the second weighting factor are defined as having a sum equal to one.

A method for technology evaluation defines second embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving a capability importance indicator for each of a plurality of predefined capabilities in comparison to each of the other capabilities and a constraint importance indicator for each of a plurality of predefined constraints in comparison to each of the other constraints. Additionally the method includes determining a capability weighting for each of the capabilities based on the capability importance indicators and a constraint weighting for each of the constraints based on the constraint importance indicators.

In addition the method includes receiving a capability applicability rating for each of a plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of the predetermined capabilities and a constraint applicability rating for each of the plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of the predetermined constraints. The method also includes determining a capability fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on associated capability applicability ratings and associated capability weightings and a constraint fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on associated constraint applicability ratings and associated capability weightings. Moreover the method includes determining a technology fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on an associated capability fit score and an associated constraint fit score.

In specific embodiments of the method determining the capability weighting further comprises determining via the computing device processor the capability weighting by implementing Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP . In other related specific embodiments of the method determining the constraint weighting further comprises determining via the computing device processor the constraint weighting by implementing Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP .

In still further specific embodiments of the method receiving the capability importance indicator further includes receiving the capability importance indicator wherein the capability importance indicator is one of 1 much more important 2 more important 3 equally important 4 less important and 5 much less important. In similar related embodiments of the method receiving the constraint importance indicator further comprises receiving the constraint importance indicator wherein the constraint importance indicator is one of 1 much more constraining 2 more constraining 3 equally constraining 4 less constraining and 5 much less constraining.

In additional specific embodiments of the method determining the capability fit score further includes multiplying for each capability the capability weighting by the capability applicability rating to result in a product summing the products and dividing the sum by a highest valued capability applicability rating to result in the capability fit score. In similar related specific embodiments of the method determining the constraint fit score further includes multiplying for each constraint the constraint weighting by the constraint applicability rating to result in a product summing the products and dividing the sum by the highest valued constraint applicability rating to result in the constraint fit score.

Moreover in other specific embodiments of the method determining the technology fit score further comprises determining a technology constraint fit score by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a first weighting factor from the capability fit score or determining a technology capability fit score by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a second weighting factor from the constraint fit score. The first weighting factor and the second weighting being summed to equal one.

A computer program product that includes a non transitory computer readable medium defines third embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a capability importance indicator for each of a plurality of predefined capabilities in comparison to each of the other capabilities and a constraint importance indicator for each of a plurality of predefined constraints in comparison to each of the other constraints. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine a capability weighting for each of the capabilities based on the capability importance indicators and a constraint weighting for each of the constraints based on the constraint importance indicators.

The computer readable medium also includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to receive a capability applicability rating for each of a plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of the predetermined capabilities and a constraint applicability rating for each of the plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of the predetermined constraints. In addition the computer readable medium includes a fourth set of codes for causing a computer to determine a capability fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on associated capability applicability ratings and associated capability weightings and a constraint fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on associated constraint applicability ratings and associated capability weightings. Moreover the computer readable medium includes a fifth set of codes for causing a computer to determine a technology fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on an associated capability fit score and an associated constraint fit score.

Thus further details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products for evaluating and selecting technology. Specifically present embodiments provide for assessing the relative importance of various capabilities and constraints to determine weighting factors and applying the weighting factors to potential technology solutions rated in terms of the applicability of the capabilities and constraints. The result is a capability fit score and a constraint fit score for each potential technology solution which can be combined to form an overall technology fit score for each potential technology solution. Thus present embodiments assess capabilities and constraints of various potential technology solutions and balance the capabilities and constraints to result in a quantitatively measurement of which technology solution is the best fit for the project at hand.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As may be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system computer program product or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic or semiconductor system apparatus or device. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device or transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet. Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as JAVA Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for a technology evaluation and selection. Embodiments herein disclose determine the importance of specific capabilities and constraints and assign a relative weight to each capability and constraint in relation to their importance. Capability and constraint fit analysis is performed based on rating the applicability of each capability and constraint to various potential technology solutions resulting in a capability fit score and a constraint fit score for each of the potential technology solutions. The capability fit score and the constraint fit score for a given potential technology solution can be properly weighted to result in an overall technology fit score for each of the potential technology solutions. The overall technology fit score takes into account the project s relative importance of specific capabilities and constraints and provides a quantitative means of distinguishing between potential technology solutions.

Thus apparatus systems methods and computer program products are herein disclosed that provide for technology evaluation. provides a high level schematic diagram of an apparatus configured for technology evaluation in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus includes a computing platform having at least one processor and a memory in communication with the processor . The memory stores technology evaluation application which is configured to evaluate a plurality of potential technology solutions in terms of capabilities and constraints for a specified project.

The technology evaluation application includes capability weighting routine that is configured to receive a plurality of capability importance indicators that indicate the relative importance between one of a plurality of capabilities and another of the plurality of capabilities . The capabilities are high level capabilities predetermined from an overall list of capabilities based on stakeholder inputs. The capability weighting routine is further configured to determine a capability weight for each of the plurality of capabilities based on the capability importance indicators . In specific embodiments of the invention the capability weighting routine is an Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP algorithm. AHP provides a comprehensive and rational framework for structuring a decision problem for representing and quantifying its elements for relating those elements to overall goals and for evaluating alternative solutions. Further details related to capability importance indicator assessments and capability weighting determination are shown and described in relation to infra.

The technology evaluation application includes constraint weighting routine that is configured to receive a plurality of constraint importance indicators that indicate the relative importance between one of a plurality of constraints and another of the plurality of constraints . The constraints are high level constraints predetermined from an overall list of constraints. The constraint weighting routine is further configured to determine a constraint weight for each of the plurality of constraints based on the constraint importance indicators . In specific embodiments of the invention the constraint weighting routine is an Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP algorithm. Further details related to constraint importance indicator assessments and capability weighting determination are shown and described in relation to infra.

Technology evaluation application additionally includes capability fit score routine that is configured to receive capability applicability ratings for each of a plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of a plurality of capabilities . Thus each applicability rating indicates the strength of the relationship between a specific technology solution and a specific capability. The capability fit score routine is further configured to determine a capability fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on the capability weighting and capability applicability ratings for each capability . In addition technology evaluation application includes constraint fit score routine that is configured to receive constraint applicability ratings for each of a plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of a plurality of constraints . Thus each constraint applicability rating indicates the strength of the relationship between a specific technology solution and a specific constraint. The constraint fit score routine is further configured to determine a constraint fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on the constraint weighting and constraint applicability ratings for each constraint .

In addition technology evaluation application includes technology fit routine that is configured to determine a technology fit score for each of the plurality of potential technology solutions based on the capability fit score and the constraint fit score .

Referring to shown is an additional block diagram of apparatus according to embodiments of the present invention. highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computerized device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of one or more computing devices.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs such as technology evaluation application and routines associated therewith or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with technology evaluation application and related routines sub routines sub modules thereof.

Computer platform additionally may include communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other networked devices. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection and communicating capability fit scores constraint fit scores and technology fit scores related reports including the same or the like to business entities.

As previously noted the memory of apparatus stores technology evaluation application which is configured to evaluate a plurality of potential technology solutions for a project.

In specific embodiments of the invention the technology evaluation application includes capability importance spreadsheet mechanism for receiving capability importance indicators that each indicates the relative importance between each of the plurality of capabilities and a corresponding one of the other capabilities . A specific example of a capability importance spreadsheet mechanism is shown and described in relation to infra.

In one specific embodiment of the invention in which the project is risk governance type project high level capabilities may include two or more of 1 risk control impact assessment 2 metric management and monitoring 3 process mapping framework standards management and entity relationships 4 event issue gap and remediation management 5 policy governance and management 6 regulatory compliance change management and workflow to drive changes to control environments 7 real time production systems process performance and failure notification 8 sense and respond to business and technology change management workflow 9 customizable reporting and interoperability 10 workflow retention and management of evidence of audit trials for sign off of key decisions work products and risk appetite 11 knowledge base for future information requests reviews improvement activities and business technology change management and 12 technology considerations such as event driven workflow configurable role based access useability configuration flexibility common scalable technologies employed or the like. In assessing the comparative importance of the capabilities to one another each capability may be configured to include further attributes which serve to define the capability for the benefit of the entity making the capability importance indicator assessments. In one specific embodiment of the invention the capability importance indicators include much more important which indicates that one capability is much more important than the capability it is being compared to more important which indicates that one capability is more important than the capability it is being compared to equally important which indicates that the capability is equally important to the capability it is being compared to less important which indicates that one capability is less important than the capability it is being compared to and much less important which indicates that one capability is much less important than the capability it is being compared to.

In specific embodiments of the invention the technology evaluation application includes constraint importance spreadsheet mechanism for receiving constraint importance indicators that each indicates the relative importance between each of the plurality of constraints and a corresponding one of the other constraints . A specific example of a constraint importance spreadsheet mechanism is shown and described in relation to infra.

In one specific embodiment of the invention high level constraints may include two or more of 1 time to configure rollout 2 complex system requiring training and adoption 3 workarounds required or manual processes required 4 not supported by current corporate strategy or mandate 5 increased ongoing number of full time employees required to implement maintain business system integrity 6 technology supplied or hosted by supplier and 7 multiple integration points required including point to point interfaces between systems. In assessing the comparative importance of the constraints to one another each constraint may be configured to include further attributes which serve to define the constraint for the benefit of the entity making the constraint importance indicator assessments. In one specific embodiment of the invention the constraint importance indicators include much more constraining which indicates that one constraint is much more constraining than the constraint it is being compared to more constraining which indicates that one constraint is more constraining than the constraint it is being compared to equally constraining which indicates that the constraint is equally constraining to the constraint it is being compared to less constraining which indicates that one constraint is less constraining than the constraint it is being compared to and much less constraining which indicates that one constraint is much less constraining than the constraint it is being compared to.

In further specific embodiments of the invention the technology evaluation application includes technology evaluation spreadsheet mechanism suitable for receiving capability and constraint applicability ratings and that each indicate the relative importance between each of the plurality of potential technology solutions and a corresponding one of the capabilities or constraints . A specific example of a technology evaluation spreadsheet mechanism is shown and described in relation to infra.

In further specific embodiments of the invention the capability applicability rating is a configured to be a integer value of zero one three or nine where zero represents requirement not addressed one represents minimal coverage of requirement three represents partial coverage of the requirement workarounds required and nine represents majority of requirements covered. In other specific embodiment of the invention the constraint applicability rating is configured to be an integer of zero three or nine where zero represents that the constraint is not applicable three represents that the constraint is a negligible factor and nine represents that a constraint is a significant factor.

The technology evaluation application further includes capability weighting routine and constraint weighting routine that are configured to determine a capability weight and a constraint weight for each of the plurality of capabilities and constraints based on the respective capability importance indicators and constraint importance indicators . Additionally as previously noted in specific embodiments of the invention the capability weighting routine and the constraint weighting routine are an Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP algorithm. In specific embodiments of the invention the capability weight and the constraint weight are represented in terms of a percentage such that the cumulative total of all the percentages for all the capabilities or constraints equals one hundred percent 100 .

In specific embodiments of the invention the technology evaluation application includes technology evaluation spreadsheet mechanism for determining capability fit scores constraint fit scores and technology fit scores . A specific example of a technology evaluation spreadsheet mechanism is shown and described in relation to infra.

In addition as previous noted technology evaluation application includes capability fit score routine that is configured to determine a capability fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on the capability weighting and capability applicability ratings for each capability . In one specific embodiment of the invention the capability fit score is calculated by multiplying the capability applicability rating by the capability weighting for each capability associated with the technology solution summing the products of the multiplication and dividing the highest valued capability applicability rating. In such embodiments the resulting capability fit score is a provided as a percentage between zero and one hundred. In addition as previous noted technology evaluation application includes constraint fit score routine that is configured to determine a constraint fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on the constraint weighting and constraint applicability ratings for each constraint . In one specific embodiment of the invention the constraint fit score is calculated by multiplying the constraint applicability rating by the constraint weighting for each constraint associated with the technology solution summing the products of the multiplication and dividing the sum by the highest valued constraint applicability rating. In such embodiments the resulting constraint fit score is a provided as a percentage between zero and one hundred.

Additionally technology evaluation application includes technology fit score routine that is configured to determine an overall technology fit score for each of the potential technology solutions based on the capability fit score and the constraint fit score . In specific embodiments the technology fit score is calculated as either as constraint based technology fit score by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a first weighting factor from the capability fit score or a capability based technology fit score by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a second weighting factor from the constraint fit score. The sum of the first weighting factor and the second weighting factor equals one or one hundred percent.

Referring to an example is shown of a capability weighting spreadsheet mechanism including a capability importance indicator input mechanism in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The capability weighting spreadsheet mechanism may be a spreadsheet mechanism such as an Excel spreadsheet distributed by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or the like. The capability weighting spreadsheet mechanism is in the form of a two dimensional grid matrix in which the predefined capabilities are listed vertically along the y axis and the same risk capabilities are listed horizontally along the x axis . The capabilities in the illustrated embodiment of include risk assessment metric management process mapping event management policy governance and management regulatory compliance real time production process performance technology change management customizable reporting workflow retention knowledge base and technology considerations . However it should be noted that the capabilities shown are by way of example only and other embodiments of the invention may include more or less capabilities based on the project type or the like. additionally includes capability importance indicator key that includes the various capability importance indicators . In the illustrated example the importance indicators include Much More Important MMI More Important MI Equally Important EQUAL Less Important LI and Much More Important MLI . However it should be noted that the importance indicators shown are by way of example only and other embodiments of the invention may include more or less importance indicators based on the needs of the project or the like.

Referring to an example is shown of a constraint weighting spreadsheet mechanism including a constraint importance indicator input mechanism in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The constraint weighting spreadsheet mechanism may be a spreadsheet mechanism such as an Excel spreadsheet distributed by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or the like. The constraint weighting spreadsheet mechanism is in the form of a two dimensional grid matrix in which the predefined constraints are listed vertically along the y axis and the same risk constraints are listed horizontally along the x axis . The constraints in the illustrated embodiment of include time to configure rollout complex system requiring training workarounds required not within current corporate strategy additional full time employees required technology supplied by supplier and multiple integration points . However it should be noted that the constraints shown are by way of example only and other embodiments of the invention may include more or less constraints based on the project type or the like. additionally includes constraint importance indicator key that includes the various constraint importance indicators . In the illustrated example the importance indicators include Much More Constraining MMC More Constraining MC Equally Constraining EQUAL Less Constraining LC and Much More Constraining MLI . However it should be noted that the constraint importance indicators shown are by way of example only and other embodiments of the invention may include more or less constraint importance indicators based on the needs of the project or the like.

Referring to an example is shown of a technology evaluation spreadsheet mechanism including a capability and constraint applicability rating input mechanism in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The technology evaluation spreadsheet mechanism is a spreadsheet based input mechanism such as an Excel.RTM. spreadsheet distributed by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or the like. The capability and constraint input mechanisms are in the form of a two dimensional grid matrix and in which the capabilities and the constraints are listed vertically along the y axis and the potential technology solutions are listed horizontally along the x axis. The potential technology solutions are further categorized according to technology solutions currently business unit production use technology solutions currently in enterprise production use supplier solutions technology solutions not currently in enterprise production use and merged solutions that include more than one technology solution currently in enterprise production use . The capabilities and constraints in the illustrated embodiment of are the same as those shown and described in and . The capabilities include risk assessment metric management process mapping event management policy governance and management regulatory compliance real time production process performance technology change management customizable reporting workflow retention knowledge base and technology considerations . The constraints include time to configure rollout complex system requiring training workarounds required not within current corporate strategy additional full time employees required technology supplied by supplier and multiple integration points . additionally include applicability rating key that includes the various capability and constraint applicability ratings . In the illustrated example capability applicability ratings include zero which indicates requirement not addressed one which indicates minimal coverage of the requirement three which indicates the solution partially addresses the requirement workaround may be required and nine which indicates a solution addresses majority of requirements. The constraint applicability ratings include zero which indicates the constraint is not applicable three which indicates the constraint is a negligible factor and nine which indicates the constraint is a significant factor. It should be noted that the applicability ratings shown are by way of example only and other embodiments of the invention may include more or less applicability ratings based on the needs of the project and or entity implementing the technology evaluation procedure of the present invention.

Additionally the technology evaluation spreadsheet includes capability and constraint weightings and that are imported from capability weighting spreadsheet mechanism and constraint weighting spreadsheet mechanism . Moreover technology evaluation spreadsheet includes rows for capability fit score constraint fit score and technology fit score .

In the illustrated example the capability fit scores which are shown in capability fit score row are determined by multiplying each of the capability applicability ratings for a specified potential technology solution by the associated capability weighting summing all of the multiplication products and dividing by the maximum number for capability applicability rating in this example the maximum capability applicability rating is nine . Thus in the illustrated example of the capability fit score for technology solution 1 is calculated as 0.05 1 0.11 0 0.11 0 0.09 0 0.04 9 0.16 0 0.05 0 0.04 0 0.15 3 0.09 1 0.03 3 0.09 3 9 14 percent.

In the illustrated example the constraint fit scores which are shown in constraint fit score row are determined by multiplying each of the constraint applicability ratings for a specified potential technology solution by the associated constraint weighting summing all of the multiplication products and dividing by the maximum number for constraint applicability rating in this example the maximum constraint applicability rating is nine . Thus in the illustrated example of the constraint fit score for technology solution 2 is calculated as 0.13.times.0 0.07.times.0 0.17.times.9 0.06.times.3 0.15.times. 3 0.03.times.0 0.39.times.9 9 63 percent.

The overall technology fit scores which are shown in technology fit score row are determined based on the capability fit score and the constraint fit score and in some embodiments a weighting factor. In the embodiment shown in in which constraint is weighted 25 percent and capability is weighted 75 percent the constraint based technology fit score is calculated by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and the constraint weighting factor from the capability fit score. In alternate embodiments a capability based technology fit score may be calculated by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a capability weighting factor from the constraint fit score. Thus in the illustrated embodiment of the constraint based technology fit score where the constraint weight factor is 25 for technology solution 2 is calculated as 0.17 0.17.times.0.63..times.0.25 14 percent.

Turning the reader s attention to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for technology evaluation based on capability and constraint in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event a capability importance indicator is received for each of a plurality of capabilities in comparison to each of the other capabilities and a constraint importance indicator is received for each of a plurality of constraints in comparison to each of the other constraints. The capability importance indicator indicates the level of relational importance between two capabilities and the constraint importance indicator indicates the level of relational constraint between two or more constraints.

At Event a capability weighting and a constraint weighting are determined for each of the capabilities and constraints based on the corresponding capability importance indicators and constraint importance indicators. In specific embodiments of the invention Analytical Hierarchy Process AHP is implemented to determine the capability and constraint weightings.

At Event capability applicability ratings and constraint applicability ratings are received for each of a plurality of potential technology solutions in relation to each of a plurality of capabilities or constraints. The applicability rating may be an integer value where zero represents no relationship between the potential technology solution and the capability constraint and a highest configured integer represents the strongest relationship between the potential technology solution and the capability constraint.

At Event capability fit scores and constraint fit scores are determined for each of the potential technology solutions based on the associated capability constraint applicability rating and the associated capability constraint weighting. In specific embodiments of the invention the capability constraint fit score is determined by multiplying the capability constraint weighting by the capability constraint applicability rating for each capability constraint summing the multiplied products and dividing the sum by the highest value of the capability constraint applicability rating.

At Event technology fit scores are determined for each potential technology solution based on the associated capability fit score and the associated constraint fit score. In specific embodiments of the invention the technology fit score may be determined as a constraint based technology fit score by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a first weighting factor from the capability fit score or determined as a capability based technology fit score by subtracting the product of the capability fit score the constraint fit score and a second weighting factor from the constraint fit score In such embodiments the sum of the first weighting factor and the second weighting factor equals one or one hundred percent.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for evaluating and selecting technology. Specifically present embodiments provide for assessing the relative importance of various capabilities and constraints to determine weighting factors and applying the weighting factors to potential technology solutions rated in terms of the applicability of the capabilities and constraints. The result is a capability fit score and a constraint fit score for each potential technology solution which can be combined to form an overall technology fit score for each potential technology solution. Thus present embodiments assess capabilities and constraints of various potential technology solutions and balance the capabilities and constraints to result in a quantitatively measurement of which technology solution is the best fit for the project at hand.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other updates combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

