---

title: Method and apparatus for mapping applications to radios in a wireless communication device
abstract: Techniques for mapping applications to radios in a wireless communication device are described. In one design, a controller residing below an operating system may receive inputs from applications residing above the operating system. The controller may determine radios selected based on the application inputs and further to mitigate interference between these radios. The controller may determine mapping of the applications to the radios based on the application inputs and may provide, to the applications, information indicative of the radios to which the applications are mapped. The applications may obtain connectivity via their selected radios. The controller may interface with entities in both upper layers and lower layers to facilitate radio selection and application-to-radio mapping. The controller may control the operation of a connection manager and/or a coexistence manager, manage databases for these managers, provide CPU and memory resources for these managers, manage a data bus used for communication, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09185719&OS=09185719&RS=09185719
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09185719
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100817
---
The present application claims priority to provisional U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 234 941 entitled SPS AS COEXISTENCE MANAGER CONTROLLER filed Aug. 18 2009 assigned to the assignee hereof and incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to communication and more specifically to techniques for supporting communication by a wireless communication device.

Wireless communication networks are widely deployed to provide various communication content such as voice video packet data messaging broadcast etc. These wireless networks may be multiple access networks capable of supporting multiple users by sharing the available network resources. Examples of such multiple access networks include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA networks Time Division Multiple Access TDMA networks Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA networks Orthogonal FDMA OFDMA networks and Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA networks.

A wireless communication device may include a number of radios to support communication with different wireless communication networks. The wireless device may also support a number of applications which may have different requirements. It may be desirable to support communication for active applications on the wireless device such that good performance can be achieved.

Techniques for mapping applications to radios in a wireless communication device are described herein. In an aspect a controller may support i selection of radios that can operate concurrently without causing excessive interference to one another and ii mapping of applications to the radios. The controller may reside below an operating system in the wireless device and may provide various advantages as described below.

In one design the controller may receive inputs from multiple applications which may reside above the operating system. The controller may obtain interference information for a plurality of radios. The controller may determine multiple radios selected based on the inputs from the applications and based further on the interference information to mitigate interference between these radios. The controller may determine mapping of the applications to the radios based on the inputs from the applications. The radios may be selected and or the applications may be mapped to the radios based further on requirements of the applications preferences of the applications priorities of the applications and or other information. The controller may provide to the applications information indicative of the radios to which the applications are mapped. The applications may then obtain connectivity via their selected radios.

In one design the controller may interface with entities in both upper layers and lower layers to facilitate radio selection and application to radio mapping. The controller may communicate with entities e.g. applications in the upper layers to obtain requirements preferences and or priorities of the applications. The controller may communicate with entities e.g. radio controllers in the lower layers to obtain capabilities and or status of the radios. The applications may be mapped to the radios based on the requirements preferences and or priorities of the applications and the capabilities and or status of the radios. The controller may support real time interaction with the applications and radios.

In one design the controller may control the operation of other entities to support radio selection and application to radio mapping. The controller may control the operation of a connection manager which may be designated to select radios for applications and or to map applications to radios. The controller may also control the operation of a coexistence manager which may be designated to control the operation of radios to mitigate interference between the radios.

The controller may also perform other functions to support connection management and or coexistence management. The controller may manage databases for the connection manager and the coexistence manager. The controller may manage a data bus used for communication between the controller the connection manager and the coexistence manager. The controller may provide central processing unit CPU resources memory resources and or other resources for the connection manager and or the coexistence manager. The controller may also perform other functions to support connection management and or coexistence management.

Cellular networks and may each be a CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA or some other network. A CDMA network may implement a radio technology or air interface such as Universal Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA cdma2000 etc. UTRA includes Wideband CDMA WCDMA and other variants of CDMA. cdma2000 covers IS 2000 IS 95 and IS 856 standards. IS 2000 is also referred to as CDMA 1X and IS 856 is also referred to as Evolution Data Optimized EVDO . A TDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Digital Advanced Mobile Phone System D AMPS etc. An OFDMA network may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UTRA E UTRA Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB IEEE 802.16 WiMAX IEEE 802.20 Flash OFDM etc. UTRA and E UTRA are part of Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS . 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE and LTE Advanced LTE A are new releases of UMTS that use E UTRA. UTRA E UTRA UMTS LTE LTE A and GSM are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP . cdma2000 and UMB are described in documents from an organization named 3rd Generation Partnership Project 2 . Cellular networks and may include base stations and respectively which can support bi directional communication for wireless devices.

WLANs and may each implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 Wi Fi Hiperlan etc. WLANs and may include access points and respectively which can support bi directional communication for wireless devices. WPAN may implement a radio technology such as Bluetooth IEEE 802.15 etc. WPAN may support bi directional communication for various devices such as wireless device a headset a computer a mouse etc.

Broadcast network may be a television TV broadcast network a frequency modulation FM broadcast network a digital broadcast network etc. A digital broadcast network may implement a radio technology such as MediaFLO Digital Video Broadcasting for Handhelds DVB H Integrated Services Digital Broadcasting for Terrestrial Television Broadcasting ISDB T Advanced Television Systems Committee Mobile Handheld ATSC M H etc. Broadcast network may include one or more broadcast stations that can support one way communication.

Satellite positioning system may be the United States Global Positioning System GPS the European Galileo system the Russian GLONASS system the Japanese Quasi Zenith Satellite System QZSS the Indian Regional Navigational Satellite System IRNSS the Chinese Beidou system etc. Satellite positioning system may include a number of satellites that transmit signals used for positioning.

Wireless device may be stationary or mobile and may also be referred to as a user equipment UE a mobile station a mobile equipment a terminal an access terminal a subscriber unit a station etc. Wireless device may be a cellular phone a personal digital assistant PDA a wireless modem a handheld device a laptop computer a cordless phone a wireless local loop WLL station a smart phone a netbook a smartbook a broadcast receiver etc. Wireless device may communicate two way with cellular networks and or WLANs and or devices within WPAN etc. Wireless device may also receive signals from broadcast network satellite positioning system etc. In general wireless device may communicate with any number of wireless networks and systems at any given moment.

In the design shown in host subsystem includes a host processor and a memory . Wireless device may support L applications through which may provide different communication services such as voice packet data video share video telephony email broadcast reception instant messaging push to talk etc. In general L may be any value. Any one of the L applications may be active at any given moment. An application programming interface API may support communication between applications and an operating system OS for wireless device . Operating system may control the operation of wireless device and may be a high level operating system HLOS or some other operating system. Host processor may execute active applications and may also run application API and OS . One or more main CPUs may perform processing for active applications and other functions. Memory may store program codes and data for host processor .

In the design shown in radio subsystem includes a multiple application radio MAR controller a connection manager CnM a coexistence manager CxM a CnM database a CxM database and R radios through where R may be any value. MAR controller may also be referred to as a smart peripheral system SPS controller etc. Radio subsystem may be a modem chip a modem chipset a wireless data card etc. The R radios may be for 3GPP2 cellular networks e.g. CDMA 1X EVDO etc. 3GPP cellular networks e.g. GSM GPRS EDGE WCDMA UMTS LTE etc. WLANs WiMAX networks GPS Bluetooth broadcast networks Near Field Communication NFC Radio Frequency Identification RFID etc.

MAR controller may provide control functions and resources for other units within radio subsystem . MAR controller may communicate with applications via APIs to determine which applications are active obtain the requirements of the active applications and provide information on the available or selected radios. Within MAR controller a HLOS API may facilitate communication between MAR controller and applications as described below. A CPU may perform processing for MAR controller connection manager and coexistence manager . CPU may also perform processing for data being transmitted and or received via radios . The processing for each radio may be dependent on the radio technology supported by that radio and may include encoding decoding modulation demodulation encryption decryption etc. Memory may store program code and data for MAR controller connection manager and coexistence manager . A direct memory access DMA fabric controller may support data transfer with local or external memory or other subsystems. A bus controller may coordinate communication via a data bus which may be a synchronous or asynchronous bus. Bus controller may manage clock generation and sleep components of data bus and may also manage unicast and broadcast communication with the connected radios. Bus controller may also coordinate communication between radio subsystem and other entities within wireless device e.g. via one or more other buses not shown in .

In one design MAR controller may perform processing for connection manager and coexistence manager e.g. for functions related to radio selection system selection handoff between radios etc. System selection may refer to selection of a particular wireless system or a particular radio technology or a particular family of radio technologies. Radio selection may refer to selection of a particular radio in wireless device . CPU may be an embedded processor located within radio subsystem . CPU and associated memory can provide a single and centralized environment to host CnM and CxM functions. This may enable connection manager to provide real time management of all active radios in a localized environment. This may also enable connection manager to provide a scalable infrastructure to support any number of radios. CPU may be a low power processor with lower required performance than conventional CPUs in order to provide power savings in executing CxM and CnM functions. Furthermore CPU may provide an always on environment so that connection manager and coexistence manager can be functional when needed. This always on functionality may be assured while simultaneously enabling CPU to sleep when appropriate in order to reduce power consumption.

Connection manager may perform various functions to support communication for active applications via available radios. Within connection manager a system policy manager may manage policies associated with radios activate and de activate radios in response to events and manage handoffs between wireless networks. The policies may be used to determine which radio s to use for any given application. System policy manager may operate based on network operator rules which may be provided via a preferred roaming list PRL in 3GPP2 a list of preferred public land mobile networks PLMNs in 3GPP etc. A system resource manager may interface with system policy manager to perform resource management such as conflict resolution power management link quality of service QoS admission control etc. A radio interface manager may manage call change phone settings register de register supplementary services and notify applications regarding call status phone state status and service status. Radio interface manager may also manage service continuity using Mobile Internet Protocol MIP neighbor channel measurements better system detection pre authentication and security key exchange and other functional units for voice and data services. Radio interface manager may also support peer to peer communication between wireless device and other wireless devices. A CnM controller may be responsible for the overall control of connection manager and may also coordinate the operation of other managers and controllers within connection manager e.g. through messages exchanged via data bus .

Coexistence manager may interface with radios and may control the operation of the radios. Coexistence manager may receive inputs from active radios and may control the operation of the active radios to mitigate interference between these radios and achieve good performance for as many radios as possible. Within coexistence manager a CxM controller may be responsible for the overall control of coexistence manager . Radio controllers may interface with radios and may control the operation of the radios. Radio controllers may be part of coexistence manager as shown in or may be external to coexistence manager e.g. may be part of radios . Radio controllers may perform functions to support voice call continuity VCC and data call continuity DCC . Radio controllers may also implement handoff mechanism for voice call continuity between a circuit switched network and a packet switched network. Radio controllers may also implement handoff mechanism for i data service continuity defined in 3GPP I WLAN and ii Mobile IP defined in 3GPP and Internet Engineering Task Force IETF . Radio controllers may support VCC and DCC functionalities for automatic system selection and in call in use handoff between radios of different radio technologies in order to maintain good user experience. A look up table LUT may be associated with and may interface with CxM database to retrieve pertinent parts of the database based on the current operating scenario. A hardware accelerator HWA may provide efficient processing of certain functions.

CnM database may store various information that may be used to select radios for applications. In one design CnM database may store one or more of the following 

The profile database may store various profiles that may be used to provide connectivity for wireless device . A profile may contain preferences for specific actions that wireless device should perform to obtain connectivity. For example a profile may identify preferences for certain radios over other radios preferences for a particular radio under certain conditions etc. Different profiles may be defined by different entities to allow for conformance to the requirements of these entities. In one design one or more of the following profiles may be defined 

CxM database may store an interference database which may comprise information on performance of different combinations of radios in different operating scenarios. The interference database may be in the form of a color chart. In one design the color chart may include i a number of columns for different transmitter radios at different frequency bands and ii a number of rows for different receiver radios at different frequency bands. For a given band combination at an intersection between a column and a row the performance of a receiver radio at a frequency band for that row in the presence of a transmitter radio at a frequency band for that column may be stored in the color chart.

In another design the color chart may include a number of cells entries for a number of operating states for different transmitter and receiver radios. A radio may have one or more configurable parameters that may be adjusted to mitigate interference from the radio and or to improve the performance of the radio. Each configurable parameter may be set to one of multiple possible settings values applicable for that parameter. The radio may have an operating state which may be defined by a particular setting for each configurable parameter. The color chart may include a set of columns for each frequency channel on which a transmitter radio can operate and each column may correspond to a different operating state of the transmitter radio. The color chart may also include a set of rows for each frequency channel on which a receiver radio can operate and each row may correspond to a different operating state of the receiver radio. A cell entry may be defined for each unique combination of operating states of the transmitter and receiver radios. Cell i j may be filled with the performance level e.g. acceptable marginal or unacceptable of the receiver radio with the transmitter radio in operating state i and the receiver radio in operating state j. The operating state of the transmitter radio and or the operating state of the receiver radio may be varied as needed to obtain the desired performance.

Information regarding interference between radios may also be captured and presented in other manners e.g. quantized in other ways presented using other formats or structures etc. In any case the interference database in CxM database may be used to select radios that can operate concurrently. The operation of radios may also be controlled based on the interference database to reduce interference between the radios and obtain acceptable performance for the radios. In one design the interference database may be updated frequently e.g. every millisecond or less based on the current interference conditions. In one design the interference database may be converted to a converted interference database which may be simpler to use for radio selection for initial connection and or handoff. The conversion may include i filtering interference conditions for radios with a suitable time constant to obtain a more accurate indication of the interference conditions observed by the radios ii changing from one format e.g. with decibel dB values to another format e.g. with color coded indicators and or iii other operations on the interference information.

In one design MAR controller may be an overall master controller for connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may manage CnM functions of mapping active applications to active radios including functions of receiving requirements of applications . MAR controller may also manage CxM functions of mitigating interference among active radios and may aid CnM controller in selecting appropriate radios for active applications .

In one design connection manager may perform various functions to map applications to radios . Coexistence manager may perform various functions to mitigate interference between active radios . Connection manager and coexistence manager may have dedicated controllers and respectively to serve their own internal functions. CnM controller may manage CnM functions autonomously and CxM controller may also manage CxM functions autonomously. MAR controller may serve as a broker for CnM controller and CxM controller . MAR controller may also provide system on chip SOC infrastructure via CPU memory DMA fabric and bus controller . Connection manager and coexistence manager may be able to operate without MAR controller . For example connection manager may operate with an HLOS CnM application and coexistence manager may operate with an HLOS CxM application. However connection manager and coexistence manager may then have limited capabilities and may be restricted to static or semi static operation. MAR controller may support dynamic concurrent and real time operation of connection manager and coexistence manager and may support priorities among the managers as indicated in the profile database.

In one design MAR controller may manage transport of control and data for connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may replace and offload any main system control processor involvement from managers and which may create heavy communications load power consumption and stalled system operations. MAR controller may be configured during power up and may free up main system processor e.g. CPU s and resources for the tasks of connection management and coexistence management.

In one design MAR controller may enable concurrent operation of multiple entities for connection management including priorities among entities e.g. as indicated in the profile database. For example MAR controller may support concurrent operation of a CnM entity within HLOS and an embedded CnM entity. As another example MAR controller may support concurrent operation of multiple e.g. two embedded CnM entities based on different operating rules as defined in the profile database e.g. CnM entities for different users for business versus personal etc. .

In one design MAR controller may communicate with upper layers and lower layers in a stack in wireless device . The upper layers may include HLOS applications and or other applications related to connection management and coexistence management. The lower layers may include radios and or their controllers . In one design MAR controller may manage HLOS API and or may interface with applications in the HLOS space.

MAR controller may communicate with host processor and or applications to receive requirements preferences and or priorities of applications . MAR controller may also communicate with radio controllers to receive the capabilities and or current status of radios . MAR controller may send controls and data via coexistence manager to adjust radio configurations functions and numbers of active radios that can provide good performance for active applications . MAR controller may receive status from radio controllers and may update radio functions in real time to reduce interference between radios .

In one design MAR controller may manage databases within radio subsystem including CnM database and CxM database . MAR controller may manage access to CnM database and CxM database and may also manage updates of databases and in real time and dynamically. This may be in contrast to a conventional design in which a main CPU and a HLOS API may operate from static and worst case assumptions static state machines or pure software solutions which may have high latency interactions and limited effectiveness.

In one design MAR controller may manage data bus via which control and data may be transferred between MAR controller connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may operate as a bus master and may control data bus for all entities including radios CnM controller and CxM controller . MAR controller may manage data bus to send data to or receive data from a particular radio a set of radios or all radios. MAR controller may manage the data functions and application aware calibration of radios on data bus . Traffic may be dynamically routed through data bus which may have low latency. This may allow MAR controller to operate real time to provide improved radio functions for active applications. This may be in contrast to an implementation in which application requirements and radio conditions may be determined only infrequently and expected operating parameters may be stored in a static structure such as a table and or a state machine. In such an implementation requested updates e.g. based on interrupts may generally be ignored by the operating environment which may not be able to improve radio function in real time.

In one design MAR controller may provide CPU and memory resources for connection manager and coexistence manager . CPU within MAR controller may perform processing for connection manager and coexistence manager e.g. as requested by these managers. Memory may store data and or program codes for connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may also provide bus control and DMA fabric resources for communications and data movement via MAR controller connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may support real time interaction with applications and radios and may execute CnM and CxM decisions which may conventionally be performed by HLOS functions static state machines or look up tables.

In one design MAR controller may operate independent of any HLOS and any framework. In one design MAR controller may enable autonomous and independent operation of all radios connected to the system without any stalls or interrupts to the main CPUs. In one design MAR controller may operate as a black box and may be agnostic of HLOS and main CPU s of wireless device . This may allow MAR controller to be implemented in various multi radio wireless devices and architectures.

Connection manager may report the status of applications to MAR controller step . Similarly coexistence manager may report the status of radios to MAR controller step . MAR controller may initiate a radio connectivity check an Internet connection check and or other checks for active radios listed in CnM database and may save the results in CnM database step . The radio connectivity check may be to a base station or an access point or some other local entity or as defined in the profile database. The Internet connection check may be to the Internet or some other remote entity. Alternatively connection manager may initiate the radio connectivity check and or other checks and may report the results to MAR controller . The radio connectivity check and or other checks may be defined in the profile database and may involve basic connectivity test Yes No bandwidth throughput estimate received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement etc. MAR controller may maintain the status of all active radios .

MAR controller may receive the response from coexistence manager and may send a connection request and the CxM response to connection manager step . Connection manager may select one or more available radios for the application step . Connection manager may then return a CnM response which may include the mapping of the application to the selected radio s step . MAR controller may receive the CnM response and may provide the selected radio s to application step . Application may then obtain connectivity via the selected radio s step .

As shown in the flow of process may be from application to MAR controller and then to connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may manage update override and calibrate CnM database and CxM database during process .

MAR controller may support real time radio communication control to determine the capabilities and or status of radios . MAR controller may support fast determination of interference conditions for the active radios. MAR controller may also enable fast dynamic mapping of applications to radios and interference mitigation of active radios.

MAR controller may interface between applications and connection manager . MAR controller may receive requirements preferences and or priorities of applications and may process and relay the information to connection manager and CnM database . MAR controller may perform initial information gathering and updating. MAR controller may also manage and update profiles. MAR controller may also maintain synchronization between various entities with which MAR controller interacts.

MAR controller may also interface between applications and coexistence manager . MAR controller may receive a list of radios that satisfy the requirements preferences and or priorities of applications which may be provided by connection manager . MAR controller may process information for applications and may relay the information to coexistence manager and CxM database . MAR controller may receive interference information for groups of radios from HLOS API . MAR controller may perform initial information gathering and updating. MAR controller may update CxM database . MAR controller may also manage communication to from between radios .

As an example a WLAN radio at a 2400 MHz band or WLAN 2400 may be active initially. Connection manager may receive a Get Best System request and or a request for a suitable radio via which to place a voice call. Based on the received request connection manager may determine that a 1 radio at 800 MHz or 1 800 and a LTE radio at 2500 MHZ or LTE 2500 are candidate radios for the voice call. Connection manager may check with coexistence manager and or MAR controller which may advise that the combination of WLAN 2400 and LTE 2500 would result in severe interference and that 1 800 is more advisable for the voice call. Accordingly connection manager may facilitate placing the voice call on the 1 radio at 800 MHz in order to avoid interference with the WLAN radio and provide better user experience.

MAR controller may improve the performance of wireless device in various manners. MAR controller may support CnM and or CxM functions and may provide various resources for connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may operate with only connection manager or only coexistence manager or both connection manager and coexistence manager . MAR controller may avoid excessive involvement by other processors in wireless device to manage connectivity for applications and operation of radios which may avoid performance degradation to wireless device .

Wireless device may be different from other wireless devices that do not include a MAR controller. These other wireless devices may include CnM and or CxM functions in the upper layers e.g. in the HLOS or applications or in the lower layers e.g. in the individual radios . An example of an upper layer implementation may be a connection manager implemented using HLOS APIs to individual radios. An example of a lower layer implementation may be a CxM bus between Bluetooth and WLAN radios such as a Packet Traffic Arbitration PTA protocol.

In contrast MAR controller may be an intelligent manager of multiple controllers and may reside between i HLOS and applications and ii the individual radios in wireless device . MAR controller may operate in a real time fashion to provide quick response to rapid changes in applications radios and radio conditions.

In one design requirements of the multiple applications may be determined e.g. based on the inputs of the applications and may be used to select the multiple radios and or to map the multiple applications to the multiple radios. In one design preferences of the multiple applications may be determined e.g. based on a profile database and or the applications and may be used to select the multiple radios and or to map the multiple applications to the multiple radios. In one design priorities of the multiple applications may be determined and used to map the multiple applications to the multiple radios. In one design the capabilities and or status of radios in the wireless device may be determined and used to select radios. In one design the capability and or status e.g. battery level of the wireless device may be determined and used to map the multiple applications to the multiple radios. Other information may also be used to select the radios and or to map the applications to the radios.

In one design the controller may communicate with entities e.g. applications in upper layers to obtain the requirements preferences and or priorities of the multiple applications. In one design the controller may communicate with entities e.g. radio controllers in lower layers to obtain the capabilities and or status of the multiple radios. The multiple applications may be mapped to the multiple radios based on the requirements preferences and or priorities of the multiple applications and the capabilities and or status of the multiple radios. The controller may support real time interaction with applications and radios. This may allow suitable radios to be selected for active applications to obtain good performance even in a changing environment.

In one design the controller may control the operation of a connection manager which may be designated to select radios for applications and or to map applications to radios. In one design the controller may send at least one connection request for the multiple applications to the connection manager. The controller may receive at least one response containing the mapping of the multiple applications to the multiple radios from the coexistence manager e.g. as shown in .

In one design the controller may control the operation of a coexistence manager which may be designated to control the operation of radios to mitigate interference between the radios. In one design the controller may send at least one request for radio resources for the multiple applications to the coexistence manager. The controller may receive at least one response containing the available radios from the coexistence manager. The multiple radios may be selected from among the available radios.

In one design the controller may manage a first database for the connection manager and or a second database for the coexistence manager. The controller may manage access of the databases control updates of the databases and or perform other functions with regards to the databases. In one design the controller may manage a data bus used for communication between the controller the connection manager and or the coexistence manager. In one design the controller may provide CPU resources memory resources and or other resources for the connection manager and or the coexistence manager. The controller may also perform other functions to support connection management and or coexistence management.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present disclosure.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the disclosure herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the disclosure herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary designs the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code means in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or a general purpose or special purpose processor. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The previous description of the disclosure is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the disclosure. Various modifications to the disclosure will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other variations without departing from the spirit or scope of the disclosure. Thus the disclosure is not intended to be limited to the examples and designs described herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

