---

title: System and method for assessing credit risk in an on-line lending environment
abstract: A method and system assigns trust ranks to nodes from disparate sources, such as user profiles found in social networking websites across the Internet. The score assigned to a profile is calculated from the subjective scores given to it by the connected profiles that have ranked it, and weighted according to the scores of those connected profiles. The score and associated data are stored in a central server with a searchable database that communicates with one or more third party application servers. The score and associated data are displayed on social networking websites according to user-defined criteria and available for use by third party users to assess the risk of doing business with a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560436&OS=08560436&RS=08560436
owner: Neobanx Technologies, Inc.
number: 08560436
owner_city: Victoria
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101110
---
This patent application claims priority from Canadian Patent Application No. 2 685 758 filed Nov. 10 2009 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to financial loans and in particular to a system and method for assessing credit risk in an on line lending environment using social networking capabilities.

The complexity of lending has increased with time and the process now involves numerous intermediaries and banks where now the ultimate funding source of a loan and its recipient rarely meet. Individuals deposit excess funds with regulated financial institutions in turn funds on deposit are made available to borrowers qualified by a chain of intermediaries who jointly authenticate the applicants identity access and assess the applicants credit history and return a report to the financial institution who then extends an offer of credit. In many instances small individual loans extended by financial institutions are assembled into large portfolios of debt which are then sold to external investors. Loans within these portfolios that are not repaid are then repackaged and resold to collection agencies. Loans that are designated uncollectible may be re categorized and resold. Along each step of the life cycle of the loan from origination to collection intermediaries are involved each of which must be compensated which adds to the costs involved in traditional lending and borrowing. This process impairs the quality of loan underwriting risk assessment and collections because the relationship between loan originator capital provider and borrower have been abstracted and obscured beyond recognition and the ultimate recipients and providers of loans have diminished social knowledge of each other personal responsibility and accountability.

In recent decades lenders have sought increasingly objective criteria for evaluating borrower default risks. The standard categories that are assessed are 

Character in this context refers to the willingness of an individual to meet their financial obligations. Traditionally recognized as the most important of these five elements character is also the most subjective and time consuming to quantify or qualify. Bankers when the size of transaction warrants often rely on subjective intuition first impressions and reputation to assess this intangible but key qualification criterion.

Today all but the largest loan decisions rely primarily on Credit and Capacity. Credit is based on often flawed data reported to credit bureaus related to financial factors such as historical payment history and credit utilization. The source of this data is lenders who report data that is then archived in credit bureau databases. The data providers relay periodic usually monthly reports either manually or automatically. Capacity evaluation is based on borrower employment income credit utilization debt service costs overall debt and expense ratios and other financial data which are all prone to inaccuracy due accidental or deliberate errors or omissions reported by customers lenders and or intermediaries.

Therefore there is a need for an improved system and method for assessing credit risk in an on line lending environment.

In accordance with the present disclosure there is provided a computer implemented method of assessing credit risk of a borrowing party in an on line lending environment. A request is received from a lending facilitation service to determine an assessment score for the borrowing party. A social networking service is identified that the borrowing party is associated with. The borrowing party is verified on the social networking service. A web page component is provided for installation on the borrowing party s user profile of the identified social networking service. Borrower data is received comprising borrowing party s user profile data and social networking connection data identifying additional user profiles linked to the borrowing party s user profile collected using the web page component. The social networking connection data of the received borrowing party s data is analyzed to determine a respective assessment score and length of time and level of activity of each first level connection of additional user profiles linked directly to the borrowing party s user profile on the social networking service to provide an assigned weighting for each first level connection to the respective assessment score. A base score is calculated for the borrowing party s profile based on the received borrower data. The borrowing party s user profile data and base score are stored in a user profile datastore. An assessment score is determined for the borrowing party using the base score and assessment scores and assigned weightings of the first level connections having assessment scores. The determined assessment score is stored in the user profile datastore.

In accordance with the present disclosure there is also provided a system for assessing credit risk in an on line lending environment. The system comprises a communication network a social networking service coupled to the communication network the social network service providing social structures between a plurality of user and a lending facilitation service coupled to the communication network for facilitating a financial loan transaction between a lending party and a borrowing party accessing the lending facilitation service through the network the lending facilitation service providing loan management facilities for enabling lending party and borrowing party to initiate verify and manage financial loans. A borrower assessment system coupled to the communication network the borrower assessment system for determining characteristics of the borrowing party to generate characterization information including an assessment score based retrieved borrowings party s profile information and based upon information retrieved from a subset of interconnected user profiles linked directly to the borrowing party s user profile on the social networking service the borrower assessment system providing the characterization information and the assessment score based upon the information retrieved from the social networking service to the lending facilitation service wherein lending facilitation service provides the characterisation information and the assessment score to the lending party prior to lending to the borrowing party to better assess risk in providing a financial loan.

In accordance with another aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a computer readable memory containing instructions for performing a method of assessing credit risk of a borrowing party in an on line lending environment when executed by a processor the instructions comprising receiving a request from a lending facilitation service to determine an assessment score for the borrowing party identifying a social networking service that the borrowing party is associated with verifying the borrowing party on the social networking service providing a web page component for installation on the borrowing party s user profile of the identified social networking service receiving borrower data comprising borrowing party s user profile data and social networking connection data identifying additional user profiles linked to the borrowing party s user profile collected using the web page component analyzing the social networking connection data of the received borrowing party s data to determine age and activity of each first level connection of additional user profiles linked directly to the borrowing party s user profile on the social networking service calculating a base assessment score for the borrowing party s profile storing the borrowing party s user profile data and base assessment score in a user profile datastore determining an assessment score for the borrowing party based on the base assessment score and the base score weightings of the first level connections and storing the assessment score in the borrowing party s profile.

Although the figures and following descriptions contain many specifics for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the following embodiments are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed subject matter.

It will be noted that throughout the appended drawings like features are identified by like reference numerals.

The client devices A N comprise one or more computing devices that receive user input as well as transmit and or receive data through the network . For example client devices A N can be desktop computers laptop computers smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs mobile computing devices or any other device that has computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The client devices facilitate interaction between users and the host site server as well as the third party social networks A N via the network .

A third party social network comprises a database of personal information on individuals and their connections to each other. For example a third party social network can be a website such as Facebook a genealogy database or any other data store that contains information on individuals and their relationships to one another.

The host site server comprises a system that provides a front end user interface of a lending facilitation service such as an on line lending service or a peer to peer P2P lending facilitation service. The lending facilitation service may communicate with a plurality of banking institutions A N in order to facilitate transactions such as transferring funds from an account of a user as well as deposit funds into an account of a user.

The lending facilitation service may communicate with an assessment system in order to assess the trustworthiness and character of users of the lending service. The assessment system uses information retrieved from the social networks A D in order to generate an assessment score of a user that can be used in evaluating the suitability of the user for lending money to or borrowing money from. The assessment score may also be used to evaluate or determine loan terms of possible loans.

The assessment system may be used by the P2P lending facilitation system in order to generate the assessment score for the borrower . The assessment system receives information about the borrower from one or more social networking services that the borrower uses. The assessment system uses the received information to determine the assessment score of the borrower which it may communicate to the lending facilitation system for use in facilitating loans.

The memory stores instructions for execution by the processor . When the instructions are executed by the processor they configure the assessment system to provide a communication module a third party social network identifier module an event store a user profile and connection store and a score calculation module . In other embodiments the assessment system may include different and or additional modules.

In an alternative embodiment the instructions may be stored on a computer readable medium such as but not limited to an optical disc a hard disk drive a solid state memory device or any other suitable random access memory or read only memory known to one skilled in the art.

The communication module is the outward facing module that provides an interface for the communicating with the assessment system. It receives requests to perform various actions including requesting that an assessment score be determined for a user.

The third party social network interface module comprises a module for identifying the social network to which a user belongs and connecting with that social network via its established application programming interface API to gather information about the user and possibly install a web page component. For example for the social networking website Facebook.com the module can provide the backend of a Facebook application that would retrieve store and analyze the user s personal details as well as walk the user through the steps of installing the application to his her Facebook profile.

The event store provides a database to store a log of all activity that occurs within the assessment system .

The user profile connection store provides a database to store information gathered from a third party social network. When an assessment score is requested to be determined for a user a permanent record for the user is generated and stored in this database. When the individual reveals a profile that he she has on a third party social network the assessment system makes a note of the profile on the individual s permanent record and retrieves and stores the profile s connections to other individuals on that social network in the user profile connection store and updates the user s assessment score accordingly.

The score calculation module comprises a module that calculates a user s score based on the information gathered from the third party social network and contained in the user profile connection store . Each time an assessment score is requested to be calculated for a new individual the score calculation module detects whether that individual has an existing connection to another person in the user profile connection store expands that database of known connections and fine tunes its ranking of both individuals based on their connections to each other.

Social network factors may include the number of friends or other connections to user s in the social networking service A and information from friends registered with the assessment system B. The social network factors may be modified by a weighting factor B to contribute to the assessment score .

User history information may include loan payment history A verified bank account information B and email payment history C. The user history information may be modified by a weighting factor C to contribute to the assessment score .

Endorsements may include email endorsements A endorsements from social networks B and endorsements from ID verified users of social networks and the assessment system C. The endorsements may be modified by a weighting factor D to contribute to the assessment score .

The web page component may also comprise an endorsement collector module that provides a mechanism for other user s of the third part social network to provide an endorsement of the user which can affect the assessment score of the user. The web page component may also display the user s assessment score and possibly the endorsement mechanism to all visitors to the user s profile page on the third party social network . The assessment system may communicate with the web page component to update what the web page component displays on the user s profile page for example the user s current assessment score.

The assessment score can then be transmitted to the third party social network where the information may be displayed via the web page component. If the web component includes an endorsement module an endorsement may be received for example a visitor to the user s profile page clicks on an Endorse Me link. When an endorsement is received it can be transmitted to the assessment system and the user s assessment score recalculate .

Once the base score is calculated it and all profile data is stored into the User Profile Connection Store. Once this is complete the calculation module then analyzes the User Profile Connection Store to see if any of the profile s connections have also undergone the process of obtaining an assessment score. If such data exists the assessment scores of these connections are retrieved and weightings determined with this data being factored into the calculation of the user s assessment score .

One embodiment of the present method of calculating a score can be described in the example social network illustrated in . A social network can be represented as a graph of N nodes where each node correlates to a user profile belonging to a person and where the connections between the nodes correlate to connections that the users have established between each other to denote a real life relationship. It will be appreciated that the graph can either be directed or undirected depending on whether or not the particular social network allows one way relationships the method of trust ranking described in the present disclosure will work with both. A given profile is connected to a plurality of other profiles which in turn are connected to a plurality of yet more profiles.

where n is the number of friends in profile A s immediate circle b n is a function calculating A s base score B . . . Bare friends of A s B . . . s B are their scores and is a scaling constant in the interval 0 1 .

In addition to the method of scoring based on the scores of connected individuals the present disclosure may take into account the weighting that each connected individual has to the individual being evaluated. Specifically if two individuals share one or more common connections it is an indicator that they are part of a more closely knit network of friends and thus it can be inferred that they have a stronger bond. It also follows that the more common friends that two individuals share the more weight they carry in affecting each other s score.

In one embodiment of the present method the weight assigned to a connection between individual A and individual B can be described as . . . 

where n is the number of friends in profile A s immediate circle b n is a function calculating A s base score B . . . Bare friends of A s B . . . s B are their scores w A B . . . w A B is a function representing weighting based on the number of shared connections of A and B and is a scaling constant in the interval 0 1 .

The present disclosure the weight attributed to a connection between two individuals can also be affected by a manually assigned score or in other words an endorsement by one individual to another. By allowing a user to give an opinion of his her peers overall trustworthiness a more accurate judgment can be rendered and reflected in an individual s assessment score. illustrates an example of this endorsement mechanism in this example endorsements are given on a scale of 0 to 5 with 5 being the highest endorsement and 0 being the lowest. Because individual B has given a score of 5 out of 5 to individual A to indicate that he feels that A is extremely trustworthy the weighting that B has on A s score will be higher than that of A s other connections.

In addition to the aforementioned the present disclosure also allows individuals to build their score by soliciting endorsements from others in their social circle. This can be done either actively by sending email or other forms of electronic messages to a friend or passively by posting the web page component to places where others would be likely to see it such as on a blog or personal page on a social network such as Facebook or LinkedIn .

A user referred to as an inviter might build his her score through the proliferation of the web page component and may also solicit endorsements through feedback. The inviter may select the website to which he or she would like to install the web page endorsement component for the purpose of soliciting endorsements. The user may actively solicit endorsements from selected friends within that social network using the web page component by sending invitations via a form of electronic message to friends whom the user has selected to receive said invitations.

The invitee s receives the endorsement invitation and if he or she elects to respond to the request he or she may click a link embedded in the invitation and be directed to the assessment system or web page component where he or she is asked whether or not to endorse the inviter. If he or she elects to endorse the inviter he or she is asked to rate the inviter s perceived trustworthiness for example on a numerical scale. Because the invitee is a known entity with a unique identifier on a third party social network the assessment system can track his or her endorsement to ensure that that particular user can only endorse the inviter once. The endorsement of the invitee may also be weighted according to the his or her perceived trustworthiness based on as many of the aforementioned base scoring factors as are available including number of first level connections how long the profile has existed and an assessment score if the invitee has signed up for one.

To further enable an individual to enhance their assessment score the present disclosure also includes a mechanism of validating the identity of the individual over the Internet by asking personal questions to which only the individual would have the answer. An individual can further enhance their assessment score by uploading photos videos and personal information to show to potential transaction partners to enrich their knowledge of each other.

When used in a lending facilitation system the assessment system described herein helps users to gain insight into the character and trustworthiness of an entity when face to face contact and character evaluation would not be feasible. In today s highly mobile society it is advantageous to have a system that represents the strength of an individual s reputation as measured by their peers. Even without personal knowledge the present disclosure allows users to measure otherwise intangible and obscure qualities such as reputation and character. This information may be particularly useful to online lenders. The assessment score can be used to assess risk as well as determine appropriate terms for a loan negotiated online between borrowers and lenders with fewer intermediaries and therefore lower cost.

The assessment system facilitates direct lending between borrowers and lenders. The current state of the art favors one or the other which creates credit supply and demand imbalances. Current implementations of lending systems and processes have not achieved their potential because they appeal primarily to borrowers and make lenders compete which tends to attract a surplus of borrowers and suppresses lender interest. The present disclosure caters equally to borrowers and lenders providing greater flexibility for lenders to make loans on their terms while also benefiting borrowers by helping to ensure that there will be a larger supply of credit available for them to borrow.

Using the assessment system a lender can assess a borrower s trustworthiness which facilitates direct loans between the lender and borrower instead of requiring lenders to have multiple small loans in order to mitigate the risk of default associated with the loan. The present disclosure simplifies and facilitates collections for lenders since the loans may be direct one to one loans. The present disclosure may create a separate loan agreement for each loan transaction whereas the prior state of the art utilizes a syndication or many to one model to mitigate the risk of default which confuses and complicates collections if a loan goes into default. The present disclosure simplifies collections because if a loan goes into default the lender is provided full recourse to collect directly from the borrower or engage a third party of their own choosing to do so for them.

As described above the assessment system may be used advantageously in a lending system. The lending system may provide one to one loans between a borrower and a lender. A lending facilitation service using an assessment system is described further below.

Once the user is signed up the user may register as one or more types of users. The user may register as a lender a co signor or a borrower . If registered as a borrower a user may bid on a lender listing which may require adding a co signor or create a borrower listing which may include a co signor . After a loan has been accepted either through a bid on a lender listing or through acceptance of the borrower listing the user s bank account is verified the loan finalized and the funds transferred to a pre paid card or to a bank account .

When the user registers as a co signor they may offer co signing service or receive a request for co signing . A registered co signor may be added as a co signor on a loan.

When a user registers as a lender their bank account is verified the funds that the lender wishes to loan through the lending facilitation service are transferred and the lender can either bid on a borrower listing or create a lender listing . After a loan to a borrower has been selected it is finalized .

Upon user validation a request is sent to the credit bureau for the user s credit file . The credit bureau s system determines whether or not the user s credit file is available . If the credit file is unavailable No at the system displays an appropriate message explaining why the file is unavailable and the process ends although the user may attempt this process again at any time. If the credit file is available Yes at the system parses the user s credit file to compute a grading based on their credit score which places the user in one of a number of risk classifications AA BB CC DD EE FF HR in addition the system generates a summary of the key points of the user s credit history which can be displayed to prospective Lenders within the system. The system displays a screen to inform the user of the Grading and the information that will comprise their credit summary. This grade classification and credit history summary are then stored in the database .

Once the user proceeds to the next screen by clicking the Next button the system displays a screen to allow the user to enter information to form a summary of their financial situation including employment and other income and principal expenses including housing fuel loans food and other categories all on a monthly basis . Once the user submits the financial information it is stored in the database . The system then processes the financial information entered by the user in conjunction with their credit grading and credit summary information to determine whether the user is required to submit any supporting documentation and what types of documentation prior to being able to obtain a loan. These requirements for supporting documentation are displayed to the user on a screen. The process may then calculate and store an assessment score using the assessment system . The method ends with marking the user as a borrower .

The user first elects to begin the process of adding a bank account by clicking a link labeled Add Bank Account . The system then displays a screen to allow the user to enter the unique information that identifies their account for example a bank identifier transit code and account number . Once the user submits this account information the system stores it in the database . The system then generates two random numbers in the range 1 to 100 which are then used generate two deposits in the range 1 cent to 1 dollar . These two deposit amounts are stored in the database as deposit transactions which are stored in the queue of pending transactions to be processed and submitted to the bank for processing.

At a later time for batch based EFT processing this may be the next day the deposit transactions are submitted to the bank along with all other pending transactions .

The process displays a user s home page including a confirmation message of the process of adding their bank account being completed pending verification of the account by confirming the amounts deposited

To verify the added bank account and complete the addition process the user elects to begin the verification process by clicking a link labeled Verify Bank Account . The system then displays a screen to allow the user to select the bank account they wish to verify from a list of all those they have registered with the system . Once the user has selected an account they enter the two random deposit amounts for verification . When the user submits the amounts the system compares them with the amounts contained in the transaction history in the database . If they are incorrect No at the system displays an appropriate message offering the user a chance to try again to enter these amounts . If the user does not wish to try again No at the process ends. If the user does wish to try again Yes at the user may enter the deposit amounts again .

If the amounts entered are correct Yes at the system displays a message confirming this and informing the user that the account is now available for use . The system records the verified status of the account in the database . The process ends with the user s home page being displayed this user being free to invoke further actions from here.

Once the user has entered the listing components the user submits the listing to the system . The system stores the details of the user s listing in the database along with a status flag that indicates the listing is in an initial state and not yet finalized . The system displays a page allowing the user to link a co signer to their requested loan as a co guarantor . If the user elects to add a co signer Yes at the process to add a Co Signer is invoked .

Once the user either adds or declines No at to link a co signer to their listing the system computes whether the parameters of the sought loan are within the system wide or individual limits for the user . If the loan is not within permitted limits No at the process returns to step to allow the user to modify their listing or start again. This validation includes any amount the user currently has outstanding on any existing loans in computing the limits on loan amount.

The system then presents the user with a screen previewing their listing and asking them to confirm it before it becomes active in the system . Once the user indicates that they wish to submit their listing the system updates the listing stored in the database with any amendments the user made and marks the listing as active . The process then terminates with the system displaying user s home page along with a message that the listing was successfully posted the user being free to invoke further actions from the home page.

The user elects to begin the process of entering a bid within the system by clicking a button link to view listings created by users who are Borrower s. The system displays a page containing a listing partial if necessary of Borrower Listings including summary details of the loan terms sought and possibly the borrower s assessment score . The user is able to select an individual listing for further examination or review by clicking on any part of the text of the listing summary . When the user selects an individual listing the system displays a page presenting full details of that listing including the assessment score of the user that created the listing.

If the user viewing the listing is registered in the system as a Lender the detailed listing page includes a button allowing the user to place a Bid on that listing. The user can invoke this feature by clicking on for example a Bid button . When a user registered as a Lender selects the Bid option the system evaluates whether that user has sufficient funds available to place a Bid equal to the loan s amount . If the user does not have sufficient funds to fund the loan No at the system returns the display to the detailed listing page .

If the lender has sufficient funds to fund the loan Yes at the system displays a screen allowing the user to enter the parameters of the Loan they are wishing to offer as their Bid . The lender can adjust the terms of the offered loan based on the user s assessment score and other personal information provided. The system records the details of the user s Bid in the database with a status of Initial . The system presents the user with a screen summarizing the user s Bid and asking them to confirm before it is placed . Once the user confirms their Bid the system revalidates the availability of sufficient funds in their clearing balance before finalizing the Bid . If the funds are no longer available No at processing returns to the bid confirmation .

If the funds are still available Yes at the user s cleared funds are debited for an amount equal to the loan amount plus any applicable fees such as a Loan Arrangement fees . These funds are assigned to a committed funds record attached to the user s Bid. The system records the debit to the user s cleared funds and creation of the committed funds record in the database .

The system upgrades the user s Bid from Initial to Active this is then recorded in the database by the system . The process ends with the system displaying confirmation to the user that the Bid was successfully placed and reporting the funds assigned to the Bid and moved to the user s committed balance.

When the user selects an individual listing the system displays a page presenting full details of that listing . If the user meets the eligibility criteria defined by the Lender the standard Bid option is available by default. The Instant Loan option is enabled if it was elected by the Lender. The user is presented with a choice of one or both of these options as appropriate. The system displays a screen for the user to enter the details of the Bid they wish to place . This can include loan amount length of loan as well as the interest rate and instant loan if available depending on the parameters defined by the user who created the listing. If the user selects the instant loan option the bid details may be automatically entered for the user.

If the auction bid option is selected for example by the user clicking the Bid button the system re computes the Borrower s eligibility to reconfirm that they are eligible to place a bid. If the user is not eligible No at the process may return to select the bid option or alternatively end or select another option. If user is still eligible Yes at the user s Bid is placed and if there are other Bids the ranking of Bids is recomputed. If there are more bids than loans available one or more bids will become outbid. The system records the user s bid and updates the Bid rankings in the database . The process ends with the system displaying confirmation to the user that their Bid has been placed.

If the instant loan option is selected for example by the user clicking the Instant Loan button the system re computes the Borrower s eligibility to reconfirm that they are eligible to place a bid. If the user is not eligible for the loan No at processing returns to selecting the instant loan option or alternatively the processing may return to selecting the bid option or the process may end. The system then creates a loan that is marked as Pending and the Lender s funds that are assigned to the listing are debited to the amount of the loan being granted plus the arrangement fee applicable to the loan . The system creates the loan record and adjusts the funding record associated with the listing in the database . The system then invokes the Loan Finalization process for the user to conclude their loan .

The process is initiated by a background process on the system that monitors the scheduled ending times of all active user listings. When the system process identifies a listing that is due to be closed the listing is closed which may include updating the status of the listing in the database to indicate it has closed . No further bids are permitted after a listing is closed. The system computes whether there were any Bids placed on the listing and determines the winning bid. If there were no bids the listing has been unsuccessful. If there were Bids the highest ranked will have been ranked as the winners prior to the listing closing . If there were no Bids No at the process may end with an email sent to the user who created the listing notifying them of the outcome

If there were one or more bids Yes at the current highest ranking Bid is the winning bid and the funds attached to the listing will fund the resulting loans. These funds are debited from the listing funding record . The funds assigned to the funding record in the database for the Bid are debited by the system .

The system initiates new loans in a pending status for each winning bid this is recorded by the system in the database with a loan record for each new loan . The funds debited from the Lender s listing are assigned to each new Loan . The system creates a funding record in the database which is associated with the Pending Loan record for each loan being created recording the assignment of the Lenders funds to that loan. The process terminates with the system sending emails to the Lender and each successful Borrower notifying them of the outcome of the listing.

The lending facilitation service including the assessment system described herein is applicable to individuals and businesses who interact on the internet as well as those who want to borrow or lend money. It is also applicable to financial institutions and businesses that may want to borrow or lend more conveniently quickly and efficiently than through traditional means. The larger the number of borrowers and lenders the more efficiently the market and pricing mechanisms will work. Subject only to the regulatory requirements wherein the present disclosure is deployed loans and funds transfers may be of any amount and may originate in any country wherever there exists computers and Internet access.

The wide spread use of the P2P model may bring about wide ranging economic benefits for individuals and entities using the P2P model by reducing the time and cost of transferring funds finding and funding loans and compliance with an ever expanding and highly fragmented set of regulatory requirements.

The present disclosure might also be used internationally and or domestically for electronic bill payments invoicing merchant payments person to person money transfer person to business money transfer business to person money transfer recurring payments gift giving collection of dues and membership fees.

Loan types and financial transactions may include student loans business loans mortgages secured loans unsecured loans asset purchase loans letters of credit factoring revolving credit and installment loans again subject only to the regulatory scheme dictated by jurisdiction and transaction type.

Although the figures and description have described many specifics for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the present disclosure. Accordingly the following embodiments are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed subject matter.

