---

title: Alternative pixel shape for uncooled micro-bolometer
abstract: An infrared imaging system including a substrate, a plurality of hexagonal shaped micro-bolometer pixels combined to define a focal plane array. Each pixel is electrically connected to the substrate with a pair of opposing isolation legs. One end of the isolation leg is attached to the pixel's periphery while the other is fixed to that substrate so that the focal plane array and a plane containing the substrate have a parallel, spaced-apart relationship. In this manner, the isolation legs provides an electrical communication path from each pixel to the substrate as each pixel undergoes an internal change in resistance due to absorption of infrared energy. At the same time, the legs separate the pixels from the substrate so that there is no heat transfer between the pixel and the substrate due to direct contact. The hexagonal shape arrangement also allows for a staggered arrangement of adjacent rows in the array, thereby increasing the fill factor for the focal plane array of the device. The addition of stepped areas to the hexagonal pixel provides for improved energy absorption through increase in area and multiple coupling of resonant cavities between the pixel and the substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08309928&OS=08309928&RS=08309928
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08309928
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100402
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America.

The present invention relates in general to imaging devices and more particularly to infrared imaging devices.

Known infrared imaging systems typically include a planar detector area known as the focal plane array which consists of a plurality of planar detector pixels on a planar substrate that typically includes a read out integrated circuit. The pixels are thermally isolated from but electrically connected to the substrate by way of mechanical isolation legs. The pixels act as micro bolometers in that infrared energy from the scene changes the pixel temperature which further changes the pixel resistance. For each pixel the change in resistance across the isolation legs is detected measured and represented by support circuitry both in the substrate and other support circuit boards to generate an infrared image.

For most infrared imaging systems there are several characteristics that are extremely desirable. Specifically it is desired that the systems have the best sensitivity achievable. It is also desirable that the infrared images generated have a high resolution for any given field of view. It is also generally desirable that infrared imaging systems have a larger field of view if task required resolution can be retained. The shape of the pixels as well as the arrangement thereof within the focal plane array can affect these attributes in that a field of view increase requires an increase in the number of pixels in the focal plane array and their closer location to each other if resolution and performance are to be retained.

The focal plane array unit cell fill factor is the ratio of active absorption area to unit pixel cell size. Unit cell fill factor can influence how the detector pixels are arranged on the focal plane array and the number of pixels per unit area. Different pixel shapes and different pixel arrangements could increase the unit cell fill factor and also fill some of the non imaging real estate of the focal plane array with active absorption area. Such arrangements would provide increased resolution for the imaging device and would improve infrared imaging performance in micro bolometer based systems using single or multiple layer pixel designs.

In known infrared devices the micro bolometer pixels usually have a rectangular planar absorption area and are arranged in straight perpendicular rows and columns. Further the isolation legs typically extend outwardly from the pixel perimeter for a single layer structure or are folded under the absorption area in right angle traces for a multiple layer structure. The rectangular shape of the current pixel and isolation leg structure would not greatly benefit from a staggered pixel arrangement in terms of focal plane array fill percentage. Although a staggered row or column design might help infrared imaging system performance with rectangular pixels in terms of image sampling it would be of further benefit to change the shape of the pixel and allow them to be placed more closely together on the focal plane array.

In some instances it is desirable to have an increased field of view for the infrared imaging system which could result in increased angles of incidence for the incoming infrared radiation energy from the scene depending on the system front end optics. Absorption and therefore sensitivity could be improved if the incoming radiation is as orthogonal as possible to the pixel surface.

Superimposed over these considerations is the fact that micro bolometer pixels are coincident with spaced apart parallel planes which establishes a tuned resonant cavity for the wavelength of interest between the focal plane array and the substrate for the device. During operation a portion of the incoming infrared radiation passes through the pixel absorption surface and reflects off of the substrate to be absorbed again by the pixel. If pixel shapes are changed then the resonant cavity efficiency of operation could be changed accordingly and perhaps adversely.

One way to increase pixel absorption especially at increased angles of incident radiation would be to step the absorption surface area of each micro bolometer pixel in one or both directions. A method of decreasing the distance between pixels on the focal plane array would be to maximize the unit cell fill factor and pursue alternative shapes to the current rectangles.

Accordingly one object of the present disclosure is to provide infrared imaging device with pixels whose absorption area shapes allow for a different pixel arrangement on the substrate to create more densely packed focal plane arrays.

It is another object of the present disclosure to provide an infrared imaging device with a higher fill factor per unit area.

Another object of the present disclosure is to provide an infrared imaging device whose absorption surface shape improves the absorption of the device.

Yet another object of the present disclosure is to provide an infrared imaging device capable of maintaining sensitivity with an increased field of view.

Another object of the present disclosure is to provide an infrared imaging device that is relatively easy to manufacture in a cost effective manner.

These and other objects of the invention are achieved in one aspect by an infrared imaging system comprising a substrate a plurality of hexagonally shaped micro bolometer pixels that combine to define a focal plane array and means for thermally isolating but electrically connecting the pixels to the substrate.

Another aspect of the disclosure involves a method for obtaining an infrared image comprising the steps of providing a plurality of micro bolometer pixels each of the pixels having an absorption surface with a hexagonal periphery and electrically connecting each pixel to a substrate with an isolation leg having one end connected to the periphery and the other end connected to the substrate so that each pixel is spaced apart from the substrate for isolation and the formation of a resonant cavity to improve absorption coupling.

The hexagonal shape arrangement allows for a staggered arrangement of adjacent rows in the array thereby increasing the fill factor for the focal plane array of the device. The addition of stepped areas to the hexagonal pixel provides for improved energy absorption through increase in area and multiple coupling of resonant cavities between the pixel and the substrate.

Additional advantages and features will become apparent as the subject invention becomes better understood by reference to the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein 

In the detailed description that follows identical components have been given the same reference numerals.

Referring now to show a single micro bolometer pixel for the infrared imaging device. The pixel has a multiple layer stepped concave shape defined by a plurality of hexagonal absorption surfaces of which surface in is representative. The hexagonal absorption surfaces are arranged around a central absorption surface so that they are concentric when viewed in top plan See and so that the surfaces are co incident with respective planes that are parallel and spaced apart from each other. With this configuration any infrared energy which passes through micro bolometer pixel II could be reflected and minimally diffused by the bottom of the pixel and produce constructive interference in the resonant cavity for further absorption. The stepped or terraced concave configuration provides the further advantage of increased efficiency for the pixel. Specifically the various absorption surfaces have different dimensions allowing the pixel to be tuned for different infrared wavelengths corresponding to the geometry of the absorption surface. Additionally the number of absorption surfaces could be varied from device to device with increasing numbers of surfaces approaching a bowl shape. It is to be further appreciated that the infrared surface could also be convex as shown in so that the cavity surface would extend away from the substrate if design considerations for the application warrant.

Referring to the embodiments of a pair of isolation legs interconnects each pixel with a substrate . For example is an exemplary side elevational view of a single pixel along with part of the substrate in which the plurality of hexagonal absorption surfaces are stepped up as multiple layers. Alternatively is another exemplary side elevational view of a single pixel along with part of the substrate in which the plurality of hexagonal absorption surfaces are stepped down as multiple layers. As variously exemplified in a periphery end of each isolation leg is connected to the periphery of the pixel while the opposing substrate end is fixed to the substrate under the pixel absorption area for maximum fill factor. is an exemplary bottom plan view of the pixel of in which each isolation leg can have semi spiraling bends. Alternatively is another exemplary bottom plan view of the pixel of in which each isolation leg can have a patterned rectilinear shape. Such variously exemplified isolation legs can function as means for thermally isolating but electrically connecting the pixels to the substrate. Such means can somewhat thermally isolate the micro bolometer pixel from the substrate while at the same time providing an electrical path from the micro bolometer pixel to the substrate when the pixel undergoes a change in resistance in response to detection of infrared energy. Stated differently for each pixel the pair of isolation legs establishes an electrical microcircuit between the pixel and the substrate.

Preferably the pixel and isolation legs are an integral structure and are made from a silicon silicon dioxide vanadium oxide or related material with a suitable thermal coefficient of resistance. The pixel is preferably manufactured with current manufacturing techniques such as those used for manufacturing Micro Electro Mechanical Systems MEMS except that the masking patterns lithography and deposition steps would be slightly changed to yield the geometric shapes for the pixels and isolation legs discussed above. Any material used for manufacturing a known micro bolometer pixel could also be appropriate for the pixel.

In the operation of the present disclosure a plurality of pixels is arranged in a focal plane array so that the pixels in adjacent rows are staggered as shown in . Infrared energy from a scene is received by the pixels and thereby absorbed. In response the affected micro bolometer pixel s changes resistance according to the amount of infrared energy absorbed. Since each pixel is actually a microcircuit resistor the resistance change across the pixel is detected by read only integrated circuits which are placed in the substrate prior to the MEMS process in a manner known in the art. The read only integrated circuit converts the change in resistance for each pixel into a proportional voltage for digitization and pixel non uniformity correction which is then formatted in a video signal for observation by the user.

It is obvious that many modifications and variations of the present invention are possible in light of the above teachings. It is therefore to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as described.

