---

title: System and method for display device character input
abstract: Methods and apparatus are provided for providing character input to a display device. In one embodiment, a method includes detecting a user selection of an application which allows for character input by a user, launching a receiver application by the display device, and detecting a transmission from a user device by a messenger application of the display device, the transmission identifying at least one graphical character based on user operation of a user device. The method may further include displaying the at least one graphical character.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635306&OS=08635306&RS=08635306
owner: Sony Corporation
number: 08635306
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100921
---
The present invention relates generally to display devices and more particularly to device interoperation with network services and management of device connectivity.

Network based applications provide many services including media sharing social networking entertainment etc. With the development of web based applications devices have been developed for network connectivity. For example many manufactures market display devices e.g. TV s as enabled for network connectivity. As such users may desire to utilize devices for networked activities such as email browsing for content and third party applications. One inconvenience users have is the lack of a convenient keyboard. Many display devices and user interfaces employ a software keyboard such as a displayed character set for selection of one or more characters. However this method of providing characters is inconvenient as it requires a user to navigate to each character. Another option is to employ a Bluetooth keyboard. This however requires a Bluetooth capability for the display device and results in added cost. What is desired is a solution that allows for providing character input via a communication network employing network capability functions of a display device.

Disclosed and claimed herein are methods and apparatus for providing character input to a display device. In one embodiment a method includes detecting by the display device a user selection of an application which allows for character input by a user launching a receiver application by the display device detecting a transmission from a user device by a messenger application of the display device the transmission indentifying at least one graphical character based on user operation of a user device and displaying by the display device the at least one graphical character.

Other aspects features and techniques of the invention will be apparent to one skilled in the relevant art in view of the following detailed description of the invention.

One aspect of the present invention relates to providing character input to a display device. In one embodiment a system and methods are provided for a user to communication with a display device via a communication network. A system may be provided that allows a user to provide character input via a communication network employing network capability functions of a display device. In one embodiment the system may include a display device configured to provide a receiver application and messenger application. The receiver application may be configured to interface with one or more applications of the display device. The messenger application may be configured to receive character or text data from a source application executed by a user device via a communication network.

According to another embodiment a process is provided for providing character input from a user device to a display device via a communication network. The process may include launching a receiver application and displaying a graphical representation of graphical characters received from a user device.

As used herein the terms a or an shall mean one or more than one. The term plurality shall mean two or more than two. The term another is defined as a second or more. The terms including and or having are open ended e.g. comprising . The term or as used herein is to be interpreted as inclusive or meaning any one or any combination. Therefore A B or C means any of the following A B C A and B A and C B and C A B and C . An exception to this definition will occur only when a combination of elements functions steps or acts are in some way inherently mutually exclusive.

Reference throughout this document to one embodiment certain embodiments an embodiment or similar term means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of such phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner on one or more embodiments without limitation.

In accordance with the practices of persons skilled in the art of computer programming the invention is described below with reference to operations that are performed by a computer system or a like electronic system. Such operations are sometimes referred to as being computer executed. It will be appreciated that operations that are symbolically represented include the manipulation by a processor such as a central processing unit of electrical signals representing data bits and the maintenance of data bits at memory locations such as in system memory as well as other processing of signals. The memory locations where data bits are maintained are physical locations that have particular electrical magnetic optical or organic properties corresponding to the data bits.

When implemented in software the elements of the invention are essentially the code segments to perform the necessary tasks. The code segments can be stored in a processor readable medium which may include any medium that can store or transfer information. Examples of the processor readable mediums include an electronic circuit a semiconductor memory device a read only memory ROM a flash memory or other non volatile memory a floppy diskette a CD ROM an optical disk a hard disk etc.

Referring now to the figures depicts a simplified system diagram according to one or more embodiments of the invention. In one embodiment system may be provided for providing character input to a display device. In particular system may be employed to provide one or more characters to a display device via a user device e.g. computer smart phone etc. . In particular the buttons or keypad of a user device may be employed for providing one or more characters. According to one embodiment characters may be provided to a display device via a communication network. As depicted in system includes display device communication network and user device .

Display device may be configured to provide one or more of audio and video output based on data received from a broadcast source and or input terminal of the device. According to one embodiment display device may be configured for communication via network . For example display device may be configured to transmit and request data to one or more network addressable locations. As will be discussed in more detail with respect to below display device may include a processor configured to execute one or more applications.

As depicted in display device includes a plurality of applications shown as . Applications may relate to one or more of programs for providing network based services. For example an application may allow for one or more of internet browsing internet searching social networking media viewing news entertainment and network based applications in general. One advantage of system may be provided by allowing a user to enter text and or character input for operation of applications via device and communication network . In that fashion short range wireless communication capabilities of the display device with peripheral controllers e.g. Bluetooth infrared etc. may be avoided. Moreover network capabilities of a device may be employed. In one embodiment user selection of an application such as application may result in display device launching a receiver application shown as . Receiver application may be configured to communicate with messenger application to provide text and or character information to application based on data transmitted by source application .

According to one embodiment messenger application may provide an interface for source application and one or more destination applications . Messenger application may provide an application programming interface API for source application to send characters to display device . The messenger application of the display device may be associated with a network address of a communication network. According to another embodiment messenger application may relate to a server which processes incoming traffic via communication network for display device .

Source application may reside on user device . User device may include one or more buttons e.g. keypad keyboard soft keys etc. that may be configured for a user to enter characters. Based on characters selected by a user source application may be configured to transmit a single character a series of characters and or words to messenger application via communication network . In one embodiment messenger application may provide character data to receiver application only when the receiver application is active. For example receiver application may only be active that is willing to accept character data when an application such as application has called the receiver application to launch.

Communication network may allow for one or more of wired and wireless communication. For example communication network may allow for network based communications including but not limited to LAN WAN WI FI etc.

User device may relate to personal computer or device configured to execute an application and communicate via communication network . In one embodiment user device may include or be configured to receive character data from a user via an attached keyboard or keypad. Source application may be configured to detect user selection of character input and one or more buttons for transmitting character input to display device .

Referring now to a process is depicted for providing character input to the display device of according to one or more embodiments of the invention. Process may be employed for providing a graphical display of one or more characters based on a user transmission via a communication network to a display device. Process may be initiated by detecting a user selection of the display device at block . The user selection may relate to selection of an application associated with one or more of electronic mail internet searching social networking searching a network site and entertainment. In one embodiment one or more or a graphical menu displayed element launching of an application or even selection of an interface of an application provided by the display device may be selected by a user for entering text. The selection may be performed by a user operating one or more of a remote control button of the display device and in certain instances via a user device e.g. user device .

Based on the user selection the display device may launch a receiver application at block . The receiver application may relate to an application that provides graphical character data to the user selected application. The display device may then detect a user transmission at block . User transmissions may be detected by a messenger application e.g. messenger application of the display device. The transmission received by the messenger application may be detected based on an application programming interface established between a source application of the user device and the messenger application of the display device. Based on detected user transmission at block the display device may display a graphical presentation of the characters at block . The graphical display of at least one graphical character may be based on decoding of the transmission by the receiver application for at least one application associated with the user selection.

In one embodiment the receiver application of a display device may be configured to convert data received by a messenger application into a format that may be employed by an application e.g. application for display of the character s . Display of the at least one graphical character may relate to displaying one or more characters received from the user device via a communication network. In certain embodiments the user transmission may relate to a single character. In other embodiments a user transmission may relate to a plurality of characters including a string of words and or characters. In certain embodiments the receiver application may be configured to instruct the messenger application to listen for user transmissions while an application is being operated by a user. Process may further include detecting additional transmissions from the user device and displaying graphical character data based on the at least one additional transmission.

Although process has been described above with reference to character and text input it should be appreciated that other types of data and or files may be transmitted by a device based on process .

I O interface may include one or more buttons for user input such as a numerical keypad volume control channel control menu controls pointing device track ball mode selection buttons and playback functionality e.g. play stop pause forward reverse slow motion etc . Buttons of I O interface may include hard and soft buttons wherein functionality of the soft buttons may be based on one or more applications running on device . I O interface may be configured to allow for one or more devices to communicate with device via wired or wireless communication. I O interface may include one or more ports for receiving data including ports for removable memory.

Network communication interface may be configured to allow for network based communications including but not limited to LAN WAN Wi Fi etc. In one embodiment communication interface may be configured to provide a messenger application e.g. messenger application . Display may be employed to display video data and display one or more applications executed by processor .

Referring now to a process is depicted for providing character input for a display device. In one embodiment process may be performed by a user device in communication with a display device via a communication network. Although network communication may be typically performed for communication of data over a distance it may be appreciated that a users home network may be employed for transmitting data relative to a display device and a user device. Process may be initiated at block based on a user launching a search application e.g. application on a display device. The user may launch the search application using controls of the display device. According to another embodiment a user device may include a terminal or button which may selected by the user to initiate communication of character or text data the communication device with the display device. At block the search application may launch a receiver application. Launch of the receiver application may be performed when a particular application allows for text to be entered by the user.

At block a user may operate a device having a source application e.g. source application . For example the user may type on a key pad of a user device having the source application. The source application may be configured to transmit one or more characters to a messenger application of the display device at block . The messenger application may be configured to provide the identified character data to a receiver application at block . In certain embodiments data provided to the receiver application is provided only when the receiver application has been called by another application such as a search application. The receiver application may provide data to a search application at block . The display device may then display the received characters by providing a graphical display of the characters at block .

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user interface of a an application provided by a display device. User interface relates to a interne browsing application according to one or more embodiments of the invention. User interface may be displayed by a display device e.g. display device . As shown user interface includes address bar and one or more selectable windows depicted as . The browser application may include display panel including one or more areas in which a user may enter text. As depicted window includes text box and text box . Layout of the browser application may be based on the browser however providing input to a browser such as characters to type may be provided by a user device via a network communication.

Referring now to a graphical representation is depicted of a user device according to one embodiment of the invention. User device includes display and may be configured to provide graphical display of one or more characters. In one embodiment display may be configured to display one or more characters selected by a user for a source application to transmit shown via text box . According to another embodiment user device includes alpha numeric keypad . Keypad may include one or more buttons such as send button for transmitting user selected characters. In that fashion a user may transmit characters to a display device.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

