---

title: Risk scoring system and method for risk-based data assessment
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer program products are provided for determining risk. In one exemplary embodiment, there is provided a method for determining risk. The method may include receiving historical information relating to tax return data of a taxpayer. The method may also include updating one or more profiles associated with the historical information. The method may also include receiving current information relating to tax return data of the taxpayer. The method may also include querying the updated historical information based on the received current information. The method may further include processing historical information, received in response to the querying, together with the current information to generate one or more risk scores.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489479&OS=08489479&RS=08489479
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08489479
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100729
---
The present disclosure generally relates to systems and methods for determining and scoring risk associated with fraud. More particularly the present disclosure relates to systems and methods for receiving and processing tax return data and comparing current tax return data to historical tax return data to determine potential fraud.

Taxpayers such as for example individuals and companies may file income tax returns yearly. Based on a taxpayer s gross income and possible deductions and exemptions available a taxpayer may either owe taxes or receive a refund for taxes paid during the year. Accordingly it is common for a taxpayer to attempt to reduce his taxable income and associated income tax liability to either pay as little tax as possible or receive as large a tax refund as possible.

In order to reduce the amount of income tax liability a taxpayer may for example deduct expenses that are not legally available claim more dependents than allowed by law fail to report all earned income etc. These are examples of fraudulent actions that a taxpayer may take to reduce income tax liability. In addition a taxpayer may purchase or steal one or more false identities and file fraudulent tax returns in an effort to receive a tax refund. These are other examples of fraudulent activity.

Such examples are prevalent and are increasingly common and difficult to catch by the tax receiving agency. For example over 130 million tax returns were filed with the Internal Revenue Service IRS in 2007. A corresponding number of tax returns were also filed in the corresponding state s of residence for each taxpayer. Therefore the large volume of filed tax returns results in a large number of fraudulent tax returns that either improperly reduce the correct amount of taxes owed or improperly increase the amount of refunds owed.

One way to identify a fraudulent tax return would be to audit the return e.g. by comparing it to previously filed returns historical data and other relevant information. When applying analytics to determine a fraud risk of a particular transaction e.g. tax return processing it is desirable to apply one or more risk rules to data contained in the transaction and or a broad range of stored historical data. Current systems typically conduct all calculations required for risk scoring at the time of a transaction e.g. when a tax return is received or when a batch of returns are audited.

In current systems there is a need to employ increasingly sophisticated analytics as part of transaction processing to detect and prevent possible fraud. However the ability to employ analytic techniques is often limited by the need to maintain very high standards of performance and reliability in the transaction processing system because sophisticated analytics require substantial processing power and add substantial complexity if executed in real time as a part of the transaction processing.

In one exemplary embodiment there is provided a method for determining risk. The method may include receiving historical information relating to tax return data of a taxpayer. The method may also include updating one or more profiles associated with the historical information. The method may also include receiving current information relating to tax return data of the taxpayer. The method may also include querying the updated historical information based on the received current information. The method may further include processing historical information received in response to the querying together with the current information to generate one or more risk scores.

In another exemplary embodiment there is provided a computer readable recording medium storing a computer executable program which when executed by a processor performs a method for determining risk. The method may include receiving historical information relating to tax return data of a taxpayer. The method may also include updating one or more profiles associated with the historical information. The method may also include receiving current information relating to tax return data of the taxpayer. The method may also include querying the updated historical information based on the received current information. The method may further include processing historical information received in response to the querying together with the current information to generate one or more risk scores.

In another exemplary embodiment there is provided a computer system for determining risk including a computer having memory and a processor. The computer system may include one or more systems that may include data and a risk scoring center in communication with the one or more systems. The risk scoring center may receive historical information relating to tax return data of a taxpayer. The risk scoring center may update one or more profiles associated with the historical information. The risk scoring center may receive current information relating to tax return data of the taxpayer. The risk scoring center may query the updated historical information based on the received current information. The risk scoring center may also process historical information received in response to the querying together with the current information to generate one or more risk scores.

In another exemplary embodiment there is provided a method for determining risk. The method may include receiving historical information relating to tax return data of a taxpayer. The method may also include updating one or more profiles associated with the historical information. The method may also include receiving current information relating to tax return data of the taxpayer. The method may also include querying the updated historical information based on the received current information. The method may also include processing historical information received in response to the querying together with the current information to generate one or more risk scores. The method may further include determining one or more profiles that are relevant to the current information based on the querying. The one or more profiles may include at least one of either a client profile a preparer profile an employer profile a payment distribution profile and a transaction segment profile or any combination thereof and the historical information may include tax return data associated with one or more previously filed tax returns.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory only and are not restrictive of the disclosed systems and methods.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawings and the following description to refer to the same or similar parts. While several exemplary embodiments and features are described herein modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the components illustrated in the drawings and the exemplary methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding steps to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the disclosure. Instead the proper scope of the disclosure is defined by the appended claims.

Systems and methods consistent with the present disclosure move complexity from the time of transaction processing to a preprocessing stage which simplifies transaction processing thus improving performance and reliability. Further certain embodiments use a series of data structures or risk profiles corresponding to one or more entities to allow pre calculated risk relevant information to be stored and used to determine a risk score for a particular transaction. When a transaction requires risk scoring a risk scoring engine may determine the particular profile s related to the transaction and gather the profiles and transaction together to provide the necessary data to risk scoring rules.

In this way systems consistent with the present disclosure may reduce complexity thereby improving performance and reliability in risk scoring that occurs at the time a transaction is received without reducing the ability to apply sophisticated analytic techniques to detect fraud.

By way of a non limiting example illustrates a system in which the features and principles of the present disclosure may be implemented. The number of components in system is not limited to what is shown and other variations in the number of arrangements of components are possible consistent with embodiments of the disclosure. The components of may be implemented through hardware software firmware etc. System may include clients through risk scoring center network and administrators through

As illustrated in clients may store tax return data and may communicate the data to risk scoring center via network . Risk scoring center may receive the data from clients process the received data generate one or more alerts regarding potential fraud associated with the received data and send the processed data and one or more alerts to administrators . Administrators may review the one or more alerts regarding the potential risk of fraud in the tax return conduct a more detailed analysis of the identified risk determine if the taxpayer is attempting to fraudulently file the tax return and perform other tasks related to reviewing the tax returns.

Network provides communications between or among the various entities depicted in system . Network may be a shared public or private network and may encompass a wide area network WAN or local area network LAN . Network may be implemented through any suitable combination of wired and or wireless communication networks including Wi Fi networks GSM GPRS networks TDMA networks CDMA networks Bluetooth networks or any other wireless networks . By way of example network may be implemented through a wide area network WAN local area network LAN an intranet and or the Internet. Further the entities of system may be connected to multiple networks such as for example to a wireless carrier network a private data network and the public Internet.

Clients may include one or more processors such as for example computing devices. In an embodiment clients may each include one or more databases that store data. The data may include for example tax return data for the current tax year. The tax return data may include for example a taxpayer s name address social security number tax ID number taxable income number of exemptions deductions tax credits etc. In addition to storing data regarding a taxpayer s tax return one of ordinary skill would appreciate that clients may also store data regarding a joint tax return tax returns for a company and other such data.

Risk scoring center may provide a platform for receiving data from clients and communicating with administrators . Risk scoring center may be implemented using a combination of hardware software firmware etc. and may be operable to receive and store data from various clients . For example in an embodiment risk scoring center may receive data from clients regarding tax information.

Risk scoring center may include one or more processors such as for example computing devices. In an embodiment risk scoring center may contain one or more databases that store one or more tables of data. The data may include for example a taxpayer s name address social security number tax ID number taxable income number of exemptions deductions tax credits and other such data.

Risk scoring center may also be operable to respond to requests for data. For example administrator may be a user that enters a request for data stored at risk scoring center . The request may include one or more triggering parameters which can be used to find the requested data. When risk scoring center receives a request for data from administrators risk scoring center may search a database for risk scoring center and return the requested data if found.

Risk scoring center may also generate one or more alerts regarding possible fraud. For example a taxpayer may attempt to fraudulently claim more dependents lower taxable income or more itemized deductions than appropriate. If the taxpayer s current tax return claims for example more dependents than previous tax returns risk scoring center may analyze the difference and determine if there is a risk of fraud associated with this difference. In an embodiment risk scoring center may generate one or more alerts based on the data received from clients 

Furthermore risk scoring center may employ a fast scalable service to provide the requested data to administrators . The risk scoring center may include a multi data center fault tolerance service that may be available for query even during large loads within system . In addition or in an alternative embodiment this service may be called by an application running on administrators instead of being integrated with a relational database.

Clients may provide users with an interface to network . By way of example clients may be implemented using any device capable of accessing a data network such as a general purpose computer or personal computer equipped with a modem or other network interface. Clients may also be implemented in other devices such as a Blackberry Ergo Audrey mobile phones with data access functions Personal Digital Assistant PDA with a network connection IP telephony phone or generally any device capable of communicating over a data network.

Users may use clients to transmit data to risk scoring center . In order to transmit data the user may enter information on client indicative of for example tax return data. After the user enters this information client may transmit the data to risk scoring center which in turn may receive store and analyze the data in its database.

Index processor may be one or more known processing devices such as for example a microprocessor from the Pentium family manufactured by Intel or a mainframe class processor. In an embodiment index processor may receive data from clients process the received data and may send the processed data to administrators etc.

Communication server may be a web server that provides functionality for receiving traffic over a network such as the Internet. For example communication server may be a web server that a user may access at client or administrator using a web browser program such as Safari Internet Explorer or Netscape Communicator. In an embodiment communication server is operable to receive data and requests for data pass the requested data to the appropriate party and provide other features.

In an embodiment historical data database may receive and store historical data regarding tax returns. For example a taxpayer may file tax returns for one or more years. The tax return information filed in the past may be stored and used to determine possible fraud when compared to a current year tax return. The tax return information may include for example a taxpayer s name address social security number tax ID number taxable income number of exemptions deductions tax credits and other such data. By way of example database may be an Oracle database a Sybase database or other relational database.

Risk scoring engine may query historical data database to receive historical data for a taxpayer or from a plurality of taxpayers. For example when a taxpayer files a tax return during the current tax year risk scoring engine may query historical data database to receive the taxpayer s tax information from one or more previous tax returns.

This information may be useful to determine if a taxpayer is attempting to fraudulently claim for example more dependents lower taxable income or more itemized deductions than appropriate. For example if the taxpayer s current tax return claims more dependents than previous tax returns risk scoring engine may analyze the difference and determine if there is a risk of fraud associated with this difference. Based on the identified risk risk scoring engine may determine a risk score indicating potential risk.

A plurality of risk scores may exist and these risks scores may be stored in risk scoring engine . Furthermore different types of risk may have different risk scores depending on the identified risk. In addition each risk score may be compared with a risk score threshold that may be predetermined or customized. For example each tax season different risk score thresholds may be determined. Conversely risk score thresholds may be used unchanged between tax seasons.

Depending on the risk score determined by risk scoring engine risk scoring engine may determine if the score exceeds the threshold score. If the score exceeds the threshold score risk scoring engine may flag the tax return and send one or more alerts to entities such as for example one or more administrators . Administrators may review the one or more alerts regarding the potential risk of fraud in the tax return conduct a more detailed analysis of the identified risk determine if the taxpayer is attempting to fraudulently file the tax return and perform other tasks related to reviewing the tax returns.

Risk profile database may contain detailed information regarding tax returns and the historical information associated with taxpayers that file tax returns with the IRS. In the embodiment shown in risk profile database is separate from historical data database . However one of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that risk profile database may be contained within historical data database . Conversely historical data database may be contained within risk profile database .

As previously stated risk profile database may include client profile preparer profile employer profile payment distribution profile and transaction segment profile .

Client profile may include for example information regarding the taxpayer who filed the tax return such as the taxpayer s name social security number average income over past years historically declared number of dependents and other related data.

Preparer profile may include for example summarized risk information regarding the potential tax preparers identified based on the historical data stored in historical data database such as for example an individual preparer H R Block Liberty Tax Service etc. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that if the taxpayer did not use an outside entity to assist in preparing the tax return the preparer profile would not apply during risk scoring.

Employer profile may include for example summarized risk information regarding the potential employers identified based on the historical data stored in historical data database . Payment distribution profile may include for example summarized risk information regarding the potential bank accounts and mailing addresses for a refund check if appropriate. Transaction segment profile may include for example summarized risk information for potential tax payment amounts refund amounts or income details. Risk scores may relate to potentially risky characteristics such as for example tax returns with a high number of deductions a high number of exemptions a high number of credits or a reduced amount of taxable income.

For example client may include components such as a central processing unit CPU a memory an input output I O device s an application programming interface API and a database that can be implemented in various ways. For example an integrated platform such as a workstation personal computer laptop etc. may comprise CPU memory I O devices API and database interconnected by a local bus . In such a configuration components and may connect through a local bus interface.

CPU may be one or more known processing devices such as a microprocessor from the Pentium family manufactured by Intel or a mainframe class processor. Memory may be one or more storage devices configured to store information used by CPU to perform certain functions operations and steps related to embodiments of the present disclosure. Memory may be a magnetic semiconductor tape optical or other type of storage device. In one embodiment memory includes one or more software application programs that when executed by CPU perform various processes consistent with the present disclosure.

Methods systems and articles of manufacture consistent with the present disclosure are not limited to programs configured to perform dedicated tasks. For example memory may be configured with a program that performs several functions consistent with the disclosure when executed by CPU . Alternatively CPU may execute one or more programs located remotely from client . For example client may access one or more remote programs that when executed perform functions related to embodiments of the present disclosure. The configuration and number of programs implementing processes consistent with the disclosure are not critical to the disclosure.

Memory may be also be configured with an operating system not shown that performs several functions well known in the art when executed by CPU . By way of example the operating system may be Microsoft Windows Unix Linux an Apple operating system such as MAC OSX Personal Digital Assistant operating system such as Microsoft CE or any other operating system. The choice of operating system and even the use of an operating system is not critical to the disclosure.

I O device s may comprise one or more input output devices that allow data to be received and or transmitted by client . For example I O device may include one or more input devices such as a network connection keyboard touch screen mouse microphone disk reader and the like that enable data to be input or received from a user. Further I O device may include one or more output devices such as a network connection display screen printer speaker devices and the like that enable data to be output or presented to a user. The configuration and number of input and or output devices incorporated in I O device are not critical to the disclosure.

API is an interface used by client to execute user requests. In an embodiment API may be used in conjunction with I O device to define for example monitoring parameters events and notifications with respect to tax returns. In addition API may query and receive information regarding tax returns in response to information received at I O device . API may also update information stored in databases and .

Database may comprise one or more databases that store information and are accessed and managed through system . By way of example database may be an Oracle database a Sybase database or any other relational database.

Risk scoring center may receive information from one or more clients . The information received by risk scoring center may include for example a taxpayer s name address social security number tax ID number taxable income number of exemptions deductions tax credits and other such data.

Risk scoring center may receive tax return information for each year a taxpayer files a tax return step . The tax return information from previous years may be viewed as historical tax return information. This historical tax return information may be used by risk scoring engine to determine the risk of fraud associated with information contained in the current tax return.

Based on the historical tax return information associated with a taxpayer risk scoring engine may update the client profile in risk profile database based on the historical tax return information from each of the previous tax returns that the taxpayer filed step . For example risk scoring engine may update client profile by storing for example the taxpayer s name address es and social security number associated with previous tax returns.

Risk scoring engine may also update the preparer profile in risk profile database with the appropriate preparer if any who assisted the taxpayer with preparing the tax return information from previous tax returns that the taxpayer filed step . Risk scoring engine may also update the employer profile in risk profile database with the one or more employers that employed the taxpayer during previous tax returns that the taxpayer filed step .

Risk scoring engine may also update the payment distribution profile in risk profile database with the taxpayer s bank account s information and mailing address es if any that the taxpayer listed for receiving a refund check via mail or electronic deposit or for paying taxes due based on the one or more historical tax returns step . Risk scoring engine may also update the transaction segment profile in risk profile database with the tax payment amount refund amount income details exemption s details standard deductions and itemized deductions associated with previous tax returns step .

Risk scoring center may receive information from one or more clients step . The information received by risk scoring center may include for example a taxpayer s name address social security number tax ID number taxable income number of exemptions deductions tax credits and other such data. This information may be associated with a current tax return for example.

After receiving the information regarding a current tax return risk scoring center may query the information contained in risk profile database associated with the taxpayer who filed the current tax return step .

Risk scoring engine may receive the current tax return information and analyze the information to determine the relevant profile s step . Risk scoring engine may determine for example that a client profile preparer profile employer profile payment distribution profile and transaction segment profile are relevant to the information contained in the current tax return. Alternatively risk scoring engine may determine that the current tax return did not list a preparer. Accordingly risk scoring engine may determine that preparer profile is not relevant to the current tax return. One of ordinary skill in the art would appreciate that any combination of one or more profiles may be relevant to the current tax return.

After determining relevant profiles risk scoring engine may compare the information in the current tax return with the historical information contained in one or more relevant profiles step .

After comparing the current tax return information with the associated historical tax return information risk scoring engine may generate one or more risk scores based on the comparison of the current tax return information and the historical information step . This information may be useful to determine if the taxpayer is attempting to fraudulently claim for example more dependents lower taxable income or more itemized deductions than appropriate. If the taxpayer s current tax return claims more dependents than previous tax returns risk scoring engine may analyze the difference and determine if there is a risk of fraud associated with this difference. Based on the identified risk risk scoring engine may determine a risk score.

It addition to the above examples it is common for individuals to obtain through purchase or theft names and social security numbers of other people and file tax returns for these false identities. For example when using a stolen identity tax return data such as an address employer and refund destination may be different than the stored historical data. Risk scoring engine may detect the changes and may determine a risk score that may indicate a risk of for example identity fraud.

A plurality of risk scores may exist and different types of risk may have different risk scores depending on the identified risk. Each risk score may be compared with a risk score threshold that may be predetermined or customized. For example each tax season different risk score thresholds may be determined. Conversely risk score thresholds may be used unchanged between tax seasons.

Depending on the risk score determined by risk scoring engine risk scoring engine may determine if the score exceeds the threshold score step . If the score does exceed the threshold score risk scoring engine may flag the tax return and send one or more alerts to one or more administrators step . Administrators may review the one or more alerts regarding the potential risk of fraud in the tax return conduct a more detailed analysis of the identified risk and determine if the taxpayer is attempting to fraudulently file the tax return step .

For example an average value of income for a taxpayer over a period of five years and an average value of income for all taxpayers who have used a particular preparer over a period of five years may be relevant for determining a risk associated with a particular tax return. The average income values may be calculated and stored in the appropriate risk profile s in risk profile database for the taxpayer and preparer before the current tax return is filed. Based on the calculated values risk scoring engine may look up the values and use them to calculate a corresponding risk score.

While certain features and embodiments of the disclosure have been described other embodiments of the disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the embodiments of the disclosure disclosed herein. Furthermore although aspects of embodiments of the present disclosure have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums one skilled in the art will appreciate that these aspects can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the steps of the disclosed methods may be modified in various ways including by reordering steps and or inserting or deleting steps without departing from the principles of the disclosure.

Moreover one of ordinary skill would appreciate that the disclosure may be used in other fields in addition to tax returns such as for example insurance claims visas immigration etc.

It is intended therefore that the specification and examples be considered as exemplary only with a true scope and spirit of the disclosure being indicated by the following claims and their full scope of equivalents.

