---

title: Release mechanism apparatus
abstract: An exemplary firing pin with a release mechanism apparatus at least partially composed of an elastic thermoplastic material. The apparatus includes a rod with a first end portion, a middle portion, and a second end portion. The first end portion includes an integral cage-like element with a plurality of restraining wall elements, which, interiorly, are undercut defining an interior chamber with a volume sufficient to accommodate a cable stop element and define an aperture in communication with the chamber. The aperture is sized to accommodate a cable or the like, but small enough to prevent the stop element seated in the chamber from moving, so long as the restraining wall elements are constrained. The restraining wall elements are generally constrained by a substantially rigid element, such that they cannot deform, flaring open, even if the cable is under tension.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08250980&OS=08250980&RS=08250980
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08250980
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100520
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to release mechanisms and in particular to apparatus where normally metal materials are required to achieve the desired level of performance where the invented apparatus may be composed entirely of an elastic thermoplastic material.

Release mechanism apparatus in firing pins are designed to safely deliver the fire energy to the primer in an energetic device such as a shell or a mine. The release mechanism apparatus must not fire or release under no fire conditions and must reliably work in all environmental conditions and in the case of military devices the environmental conditions may be very extreme.

Release mechanism apparatus and in particular traditional firing pin have been made of various metals most notably aluminum and stainless steel. Some examples include shear sear or three ball release systems. All three systems have trouble with friction in the axial direction because metal to metal contact occurs. To reduce the friction high surface finishes or post manufacturing lubrication is required such as dry film lube. Extra material finishing and complexity greatly increases cost of manufacturing as well as inspection and rework. These features are critical to the successful functioning of the end item. Friction causes gouging and may result in release failure.

The shear mechanisms use a shear pin that must be broken upon the specified load. While simple in design the shear pin is strongly affected by the variance in the strength of materials of the pin and its geometry. The shear pin may also bind or press against an inner bore of the device creating energy loss in the firing pin action.

In an exemplary embodiment of the invention the invention is a release mechanism apparatus that is at least partially composed of an elastic thermoplastic material. The apparatus includes a rod with a first end portion a middle portion and a second end portion. The first end portion has an integral cage like element that includes a plurality of restraining wall elements which interiorly are undercut defining an interior chamber with a volume sufficient to accommodate a cable stop element and define an aperture in communication with the interior chamber. The aperture is sized such that it can accommodate a cable or the like but small enough to prevent the cable stop element in the chamber from passing past the aperture while the plurality of restraining wall elements are constrained. The restraining wall elements are generally constrained by a substantially rigid element such that they cannot deform flaring open even if the cable is under tension.

Generally the rod is seated in a restraining element having an axial bore which provides the substantially rigid element. The bore has at least two regions a first region that constrains the restraining wall elements of the cage like element to a closed position non releasing and a second region having an enlarged geometry where the restraining wall elements may elastically deform to an open position releasing position . Upon deformation the volume of the chamber and the size of the aperture is increased sufficiently to release a connected cable terminated with an attached stop element.

Exemplary applications include lanyards which may be released under a variety of operating adverse conditions firing pins for mines quick release lines and parachute harnesses.

The disclosed invention reduces the cost of fabrication of most release mechanisms and may be fabricated using materials known to have excellent weathering properties.

The illustrated invention is a release mechanism apparatus that is at least partially composed of an elastic thermoplastic material that desirably has good weathering properties and does not creep. An exemplary suitable thermoplastic is polyetheretherketone better known as PEEK . The thermoplastic is generally selected to have a relatively low coefficient of friction such that gouging does not occur as observed with metals and is relatively inexpensive to mold and machine. Applications for the release mechanism apparatus include lanyards which may be released under a variety of operating adverse conditions firing pins for mines quick release lines and parachute harnesses. In the exemplary embodiment the release mechanism apparatus is an integral component of a firing pin but could be adapted for other devices.

Referring to which is a side view of the release mechanism apparatus that is an integral component of a firing pin as illustrated in and . The apparatus includes a rod with a first end portion a middle portion and a second end portion . The first end portion has an integral cage like element that include a plurality of restraining wall elements which interiorly are undercut defining an interior chamber cage with a volume sufficient to accommodate a cable stop element and define an aperture which is in communication with the cage like element . The aperture is sized such that it can accommodate a cable or the like but small enough to prevent the cable stop element in the chamber from passing past the aperture while the plurality of restraining wall elements are constrained. Three restraining wall elements are illustrated but in an exemplary embodiment as little as two may also work and the upper limit is defined by the practical limitations of exceeding three or more restraining wall elements . The restraining wall elements are generally constrained by a substantially rigid element such that they cannot deform flaring open even if the cable is under tension.

Referring to which is an enlarged overhead view of a first end portion of the release mechanism apparatus. The three restraining wall elements are substantially identical and substantially symmetrical. They come close together at the apex of the cage like element their tops are beveled so that cumulatively they form an aperture .

Deviating temporarily from the sequence the reader is referred to . is a longitudinal cross sectional view of the firing pin with the invented release mechanism apparatus where the first end portion of the release mechanism apparatus is partially cut away to illustrate a variation of the geometry of release mechanism apparatus. This geometry is suited for the illustrated cable and an attached stop element. As depicted the cage like element has a substantially cylindrical shape with an attenuated top and bottom. The cage like element looks more like a blood pressure pump bulb than a cage when one envisions a conventional cage. The stop element on a cable varies in shape with a rounded element being the more common shape. Accordingly the functionality of the release mechanism apparatus not limited to a specific shape of the stop element. The shape of the stop element is offset by having an aperture with a longer channel in communication with the cavity of the cage like element as the plurality of restraining wall elements have greater leverage.

Referring to which is a longitudinal cross sectional view of the firing pin with an invented release mechanism apparatus seated in a restraining element the apparatus has a cable with an attached stop element . The cable with an attached stop element is secured and the firing pin is positioned in a pre released unloaded position. The rod is seated in a restraining element having an axial bore . The bore has at least two regions. A first region constrains the restraining wall elements of the cage like element to a closed position non releasing . A second region has an enlarged geometry where the restraining wall elements may elastically deform to an open position releasing position where upon deformation the volume of the chamber and the size of the aperture is increased sufficiently to release a connected cable terminated with the attached stop element . In the exemplary embodiment the restraining element also is threaded for quick connection. Further the restraining element has a third region which is an axial bearing for the depending coaxial vented plate of the firing pin . The space between the rod and the third region is occupied by a spring . The illustrated spring is a compression spring and as shown in the spring is in a no low load position.

Referring to the release mechanism apparatus illustrated in is shown with the firing pin cocked and at the instant the firing pin is released. The compression spring is fully compressed. The rod has been moved to the second region by pulling on the cable which compresses the spring as well as sliding the firing pin into the release position. In the second region there is no support for the restraining wall elements and the cage like element opens when the plurality of restraining wall elements elastically deform flexing outward as shown by the arrows . Upon deformation the volume of the cage like element chamber and the size of the aperture is increased sufficiently to release the connected cable terminated with the attached stop element . Unless otherwise restrained and when the cable is released nothing restrains the firing pin. Accordingly the spring accelerates the firing pin through the third region stopping only upon impact of the pin with a primer and the like of an energetic device.

In the case of use with an explosive device for instance with a mine there is no need to reset the releasing apparatus as everything is destroyed. In other applications where the releasing apparatus is used over and over again the cable may be reconnected by moving the rod to the second region pushing the cable and the attached stop back into the cage like element and sliding the rod back to the first region. Accordingly the plurality of restraining wall elements form the closed cage like element and the process is repeated over and over. Variations of the steps of positioning the cable in the releasing apparatus are anticipated.

A method for using a firing pin having an integral release mechanism apparatus as follows. Initially there is a step of positioning a cable with a stop element in the release mechanism apparatus of the firing pin such that the stop element is seated in cage like element in a first end portion of the integral to the release mechanism apparatus. The firing pin is slid through an axial bore of a restraining element to a first region where the first region constrains a plurality of restraining wall elements of the cage like element therein anchoring the cable in a no release position. Next the firing pin is fitted with the restraining element to an energetic device such as an explosive device. The cable is pulled at a desired time therein sliding the firing pin to a second region of the restraining element characterized in that the axial bore has an enlarged geometry. The sliding compresses a spring and moves the cage like element to an unconstrained position where the restraining wall elements may elastically deform to an open position releasing the cable and substantially simultaneously releasing the firing pin. The firing pin is accelerated through a third region which houses the spring that now pushes the firing pin. The firing pin stops only upon impact of the pin with an ignition cap and the like.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

