---

title: Radar system and antenna with delay lines and method thereof
abstract: A radar system, apparatus, and method includes at least one radar transmitter for transmitting an electromagnetic waveform; a receiving antenna comprising a plurality of receiving antenna elements and delay lines, each of the plurality of receiving antenna elements receiving the return signal operatively associated with a predetermined delay line; each delay line having a delay length which produces a different phase delay in the return signal; the different phase delays producing substantially different antenna patterns for the received signal at a given frequency; at least one processor operatively connected to receive data from the plurality of delay lines; the at least one processor operating to analyze the substantially different beam patterns for a given frequency; whereby the processing of the data produces results indicating the presence and location of a target.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08330650&OS=08330650&RS=08330650
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08330650
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100507
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Moving target indicator radars have been used to detect and track targets since World War II. In searching for targets a narrow beam is typically scanned through a large area of interest. Radar searches in years after WWII were mechanically performed by rotating an antenna on a gimbal. For more recently developed systems the beam is scanned electronically with a phased array antenna using switches ferroelectric or other active devices. Phased array antennas can be expensive and consume large amounts of power. Another less expensive approach for scanning a radar beam is to use a frequency scanning antenna. In systems using frequency scanning antennas there is a trade off between generally good angular resolution in exchange for poor range resolution. Frequency scanning antennas however do not typically support 2 D scanning and high range resolution system requirements. Consequently radars using frequency scanning antennas have poor range resolution but good angular resolution.

Numerous techniques have been developed to reduce the cost size and power requirements of electronically scanning antennas ESA . One technique to reduce the cost is to aperiodically place a smaller number of antenna elements across an aperture as described in more detail in J. T. Bernhard et al Wideband random phased arrays theory and design Wideband and Multi band Antennas and Arrays 2005 hereby incorporated by reference. This technique that has been shown to be feasible based upon performance metrics such as peak sidelobe level as described in Y. T. Lo A mathematical theory of antenna arrays with randomly spaced elements IEEE Trans. on Antennas and Prot. vol. 12 pp. 257 268 March 1964 hereby incorporated by reference hereinafter Lo Mathematical Theory Article . The Lo Mathematical Theory Article explores the possibility of a large antenna array with randomly spaced elements and finds the required number of elements is closely related to the desired sidelobe level and is almost independent of the aperture dimension the resolution or the beam width depends mainly on the aperture dimension and the directive gain is proportional to the number of elements used if the average spacing is large. The Lo Mathematical Theory Article points to then recent advances in space exploration as having shown a great need for antennas with high resolution high gain and low sidelobe level. Although the Lo Mathematical Theory Article touches upon the use of high speed computers the focus is on a technique for optimizing the design of phased arrays.

In the radar system disclosed in Statutory Invention Registration No. H1773 entitled Ultra wideband Active Electronically Scanned Antenna the elements are spaced by 2 and the maximum delay corresponds to 360 of phaseshift. The various lines feeding the elements of the array at the aperture have bias delays that make them all equal in length thereby giving a broadside beam.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a radar system with both good range and angular resolution at low cost and low power while having Electronically Scanning Array ESA capability without requiring elaborate phase shifters or other high cost precision active elements. A preferred embodiment is a radar system architecture comprising a plurality of receiving frequency scanning antenna elements operatively connected to delay lines whose lengths are somewhat randomly selected. The inputted received signal data is processed using digital signal processing algorithms. This architecture uses temporal diversity rather than spatial diversity to reduce the cost and improve the performance on the system.

Conceptually substantially orthogonal beam patterns at the receive antenna are generated at each frequency with varying levels of energy spread spatially across the single element antenna pattern. Then signal processing algorithms based upon techniques such as least squares and maximum likelihood can be used to detect and track the targets of interest. From information theory the maximum information content of a signal is obtained when the data has a uniform distribution and minimum information content when the data has a delta like distribution. See C. E. Shannon A Mathematical Theory of Communication Bell System Technical Journal vol. 27 pp. 379 423 623 656 July October 1948 for a detailed description hereby incorporated by reference as though fully rewritten herein. Traditionally antenna patterns are delta like functions which are scanned across a field of view. More information about the targets is obtainable using a series of patterns that have distributions more closely resembling a uniform distribution.

A preferred embodiment architecture is based upon a 1 D linear array feed with predetermined fixed length lines producing phase shifts preferably selected with uniform distribution . The major advantages of a preferred embodiment architecture are a simple radar RF design an antenna with no active elements and a data acquisition system may be comprised of a single analog to digital converter ADC . Previously disadvantages associated with systems of this nature included the drawbacks of more complicated signal processing reduction of the effective signal processing gain associated with the antenna system relative to a similar sized antenna and increased potential ambiguities associated with target localization.

The radar system of a preferred embodiment comprises input and output developed with the goal of having near orthogonal beams as a function of frequency in the receiving antenna subsystem. Orthogonal beam patterns are illustrated in . The inventive concept embodied in a preferred embodiment supports arbitrary waveforms and arbitrary antenna placement. Unlike the electronically scanned antenna disclosed Statutory Registration No. H1773 there is no need make the elements of the array with bias delays all equal in length. Instead the antenna element placement does not require positioning in an symmetrical equally spaced array as set forth in Statutory Registration No. H1773 but instead enables irregular nonplanar or arbitrary placement of the antenna elements on objects which are irregular or atypical radar supporting positions. The preferred waveform generator generates a continuous wave CW stepped frequency waveform as depicted in the block diagram in . In the radar signal is transmitted through a single antenna and received with an array of antenna elements that are combined with feed lines of somewhat random length relative to conventional systems . The received signal is amplified down converted then smoothed with a band pass filter BPF . A preferred embodiment can be provided such that only signals from targets moving at a sufficient velocity will pass to the ADC. The element antenna patterns for both transmit and receive antenna elements are substantially identical with the system processing enough information to track moving targets in stationary clutter.

The velocity of the targets can be determined by performing a discrete Fourier transform DFT on the time samples collected at each frequency. Conceptually the range information on moving targets can be obtained by performing a DFT across the Doppler processed results after motion compensation and windowing. Conceptually the angle of the targets can be determined using techniques such as matched filter processing or least squares estimation. To estimate target parameters stochastic optimization techniques can be developed. The feasibility of estimating the target parameters is determined by analyzing a cost function based upon the Euclidian norm.

The radar system comprises a receiving antenna array comprising a plurality of receiving antenna elements for receiving previously transmitted electromagnetic waves reflected from targets and a plurality delay lines the plurality of delay lines and antenna elements may be equal in number and coupled together each delay line may be of random length each of the plurality of receiving antenna elements being operatively associated with a predetermined delay line each delay line having a delay length which produces a different phase delay the different phase delays producing substantially orthogonal waveform data. Optimally the waveform data from each delay line is substantially orthogonal to the waveform data from each other delay line. Accordingly a preferred embodiment set of delay lines provide delays or phase shifts in the range of 20 with intervals of delays between the delay lines being substantially uniform. For example in the case of 40 antenna elements each delay line would have a delay of at least 2 from each other delay line.

A preferred embodiment radar system may further comprise an amplifier coupled to the plurality of delay lines for amplifying the antenna signal data a down converter coupled to the amplifier which down converts the amplified antenna signal data a data acquisition system coupled to the down converter for detecting the targets and a processing system. The data acquisition system may comprise an analog to digital converter which converts the down converted antenna signal data to digital antenna signal data. The processing system coupled to the data acquisition system detects and localizes the targets and estimates a position and velocity of the targets.

The system may include a band pass filter coupled to the amplifier and the down converter for filtering inter alia the amplified antenna signal data. The down converter down converts at least one of filtered antenna signal data and amplified antenna signal data. In addition the data acquisition system may further comprise a digital signal processor coupled to the analog to digital converter wherein the digital signal processor detects and localizes the targets from the digital antenna signal data.

In a preferred embodiment at least one processor or processing system may estimate angle range and velocity of the targets. The angle of the targets may be estimated by a matched filter and or minimizing a weighted square error. Furthermore at least one processor or processing system may estimate at least one of a velocity and a position of the detected targets. In addition at least one processor or processing system may calculate a statistical optimization to determine at least one of a velocity and a position of a target and the statistical optimization may be used to calculate a minimum value to a cost function formulation. Optionally at least one processor or processing system may comprise a digital signal processor.

Another embodiment comprises an antenna array fed with randomly selected delay lines comprising a plurality of antenna elements a plurality of delay lines which may be of random length each operatively connected to an antenna element a data acquisition system coupled to the plurality of delay lines comprising an analog to digital converter and a digital signal processor processing the electromagnetic wave data and a processing system coupled to the data acquisition system wherein the processing system detects the target and outputs location information of the target. The plurality of antenna elements may comprise a linear array or be positioned in a nonplanar configuration. Moreover there may be non linear or different spacing between the plurality of antenna elements. Additionally at least one processor or e processing system may estimate an angle of the target by at least one of a matched filter and minimizing a weighted square error. In addition at least one processor or processing system may estimate at least one of a velocity and a position of the target. Additionally the analog to digital converter of the data acquisition system may comprise a single slow speed analog to digital converter.

An amplifier may be utilized to amplify the gathered electromagnetic wave data. The processing system may be remotely located from the antenna array.

A preferred methodology comprises determining location information of a target from electromagnetic wave data comprising receiving the electromagnetic wave data from a antenna array with randomly selected delay lines amplifying the received electromagnetic wave data down converting the received electromagnetic wave data filtering the received electromagnetic wave data and processing the received electromagnetic wave data to determine the location information. The processing step may comprise performing a discrete Fourier Transform on time samples of the received electromagnetic wave data.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments of the invention and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. It should be noted that the features illustrated in the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments of the invention. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments of the invention may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments of the invention. Rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. In the drawings the dimensions of objects and regions may be exaggerated for clarity. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the full scope of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

It will be understood that although the terms first second etc. may be used herein to describe various ranges elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. For example when referring first and second ranges these terms are only used to distinguish one range from another range. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the present invention.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

The embodiments herein provide a cost efficient radar system with both good range and angular resolution in addition to simultaneously searching for multiple targets. Referring now to the drawings where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

As noted above embodiments described herein are cost efficient and have both good range and angular resolution in addition to simultaneously searching for multiple targets. The embodiments described below may utilize RF waveforms and may be constructed with no active elements and the data acquisition system that may include a single slow speed analog to digital converter.

To facilitate signal processing a preferred embodiment radar system may be based upon a CW stepped frequency waveform e.g. generated from CW waveform generator . The generated signal is then transmitted through an antenna e.g. transmitting antenna and received with a plurality of antenna elements e.g. receiving antenna array that are combined with delay lines e.g. delay lines of varying length. The received signal may be amplified e.g. via receiving amplifier down converted e.g. via digital down converter then smoothed with a band pass filter e.g. band pass filter . After the received signal is amplified down converted and smoothed excessive noise is removed and only signals reflected from moving targets will pass to an analog to digital converter e.g. analog to digital converter and processed to obtain location information. Location information may include but is not limited to the latitude longitude elevation velocity and or acceleration etc. of a target or targets.

The performance of radar system may be improved in a number of different ways which includes increases in the percent bandwidth of the waveform the length of the time delays attributable delay lines as described in further detail below and the number of antenna elements in antenna array for example 64 receiving antenna elements. In addition performance improvements may be achieved by incorporating multiple subarrays where each subarray includes its own antenna array with a dedicated ADC . In addition processing subsystem may be remotely located from antenna array . For example while not shown Doppler detections as discussed in further detail below that exceed an adaptive threshold could be wirelessly transmitted to a central computer not shown in for further processing. Transmitting to a central computer not shown in may reduce the cost size and power requirements of radar system and allow lightweight antenna arrays to be widely distributed without requiring extensive possessing capabilities at each antenna array site. Although the power size and cost of the central computer system not shown in are unconventional compared to traditional radar systems and may be larger than traditional radar systems such a central computer system could serve multiple roles and be located in a secure and remote location with adequate resources.

As described in further detail below radar system captures enough information for processing subsystem to track moving targets in stationary clutter. In addition as described in further detail below embodiments of the data acquisition system described herein may also determine the velocity of the targets by performing a discrete Fourier transform DFT on the time samples collected at each frequency. The range information on moving targets may be obtained by performing a DFT across the Doppler processed results. Various unconventional effects such as aliasing quadratic errors and large amplitude modulations on the Doppler processed data limit the use of DFT processing techniques in the embodiment shown in . In addition as described in further detail below the angle of the targets can be determined using various estimation techniques for example matched filter processing and least squares estimation. Moreover stochastic optimization techniques are described below to simultaneously estimate various target parameters using a cost function based upon the Euclidian norm. Embodiments described herein however are not limited to the optimization techniques described below and other optimization techniques are known to those skilled in the art and can be utilized without undue experimentation.

In operation the continuous waveform generator that is stepped in frequency transmits a beam pattern through the transmitting antenna . Upon striking a target or the like the return of the varying frequency beam pattern to array A D will give antenna patterns at different frequencies. Although 4 antenna elements are shown in the present invention is not limited to 4 antenna elements and may comprise for example 64 antenna elements. illustrates the transmitted radar beam Rand the beam Rreflected from the pth target. Conceptually orthogonal beam patterns at the receiver antenna will be generated at each frequency with varying levels of energy spread spatially. When adding up signals from targets at different angles the data will experience random constructive and destructive interference. In theory if a target is present and the waveforms are orthogonal then a maximum will be produced indicating the presence of a target. Conversely in theory the orthogonal waveforms will sum to zero when a target is not present. The orthogonal feature is derived from the long delay lines. Each delay line puts a different phase shift on the signal. In a preferred embodiment the delay lines are structured such that there is a variance from 10 to 30 each being 360 . The delay lines can be varied to produce varying delays for example by varying the length of the lines. The delay lines produce a phase shift which changes as a function of frequency. In addition each antenna element A D will receive data at a multiplicity of angles depending on the location of the target s . The data in essence presents a nonlinear problem to be solved to resolve target presence and or location. A preferred embodiment may use a cost function analysis to derive or substantiate the target presence and or location.

Elements used to produce the delay may include ferroelectric phase shift elements. For example a delay may be produced by applying a voltage to a ferroelectric material. As to the number of delay lines and elements A X there could be 64 delay lines and antenna elements uniformly varied from ten to thirty .

As used herein the terminology nonlinear problem solving or nonlinear programming in the context of mathematical solutions is the process of solving a system of equalities and inequalities collectively termed constraints over a set of unknown real variables along with an objective function to be maximized or minimized where some of the constraints or the objective function are nonlinear.

As used herein the terminology cost function analysis or function value analysis means the derivation of a solution using nonlinear problem solving for the purpose of optimizing a parity between system s functions or properties also known as value and costs associated with those functions or properties. In for example the X velocity and Y velocity are plotted on the x and y axis. The color range is shown to the right where the target is set to 0 dB corresponding to red to over 5.5 dB corresponding to the color dark blue . The target appears in in red at a location corresponding to a target having and x and y velocity of 15 m sec.

Analysis of the 1 D antenna patterns provide insight into more complicated system identification problems. 1 D antenna patterns were simulated and analyzed for a radar system similar to the block diagram shown in . For stationary targets the bandpass filter shown in was removed. The geometry associated with a 1 D array with N antenna elements for the pth target is shown in .

For a step frequency waveform the returned normalized electric field from P stationary point scatter targets in the x y plane is given by Equation 1 

From measurements of E m an estimate is obtained of the angle of arrival p for each target. A standard approach to estimate p is to use a bank of matched filters. The matched filter output can be described as an inner product between the measured data and the selected matched filter as shown below 3 where w m is the normalized electric field for a single point target at an angle of range of zero calculated using Equation 1 . It is desired to have the maximum response in Equation 3 when the data and the matched filter are at the same angles and zero when they are at significantly different angles. The response of the match filter calculate for the pth target before the summation over frequency is given by

Ideally one would like the terms on the left hand side of Equation 5 to add to zero or near zero for . This would result in a beam pattern with no or small sidelobes. It is desirable to select optimal lengths for the delay lines to minimize the sidelobes calculated from Equation 5 . Obtaining this goal is a complex nonlinear problem. One preferred embodiment approach is to use delay lines with a random statistical distribution then find solutions that minimize the expected value of a cost function. Using this preferred embodiment approach it is observed that the first term in Equation 5 is independent of the delay line length so it s expected value cannot be set to zero by randomly varying the lengths of the delay line. An unbiased solution can be obtained by selecting the probability distributions of the delay lines so that the bias from the remaining terms in Equation 5 cancels the first term. However the realization is subject to difficulties. Another solution is to ignore the bias created by the first term and then statistically minimize the contributions from the remaining terms which is examined further herein.

A preferred embodiment way to optimize the length of the delay lines is to minimize the expected value of the power in the side lobes from the matched filter processing. The expected value of the contributions from all the terms except the first will be zero if the probability distributions of the phase differences caused by the random delays are uniformly distributed from 0 to 2 for all combinations. However this distribution is not realizable in hardware. If the delay lines are very long the distributions will be approximately uniformly distributed due to the modulation of the phase by 2 . This occurs when the length of the delay lines satisfy the equation 1 6 where n 0 . . . N 1 and m 0 . . . N 1 for all m and n except when m n. This is not a requirement but should provide a best case scenario for an approach based upon statistical optimization. This will result in sidelobe levels SL proportional to

Specifically Monte Carlo simulations were conducted to investigate the impact of the line lengths on the 1 D antenna pattern using two approaches. The first approach is based upon match filter processing as previously described. The second approach for estimating the angle of a target is based upon minimizing the weighted squared error between a desired response and a calculated response. The weighted squared error in integral form is given by

Simulations were run to investigate the 1 D antenna patterns of stationary targets and the cost function of moving targets. The parameters for the simulation were selected with the competing goals of having a low cost system and having near orthogonal antenna patters. Simulations were performed with a carrier frequency of 10 GHz bandwidth of 1 GHz 64 frequency steps 64 antenna elements with 2 antenna element spacing and Gaussian beam patterns centered at broadside with 1 way 3 dB beamwidths of 120 degrees and delay lines lengths that were randomly selected with a uniform distribution between 0 and 20 . shows the antenna patterns for the first frequency at 10 GHz the second frequency which is incremented by 15.6 MHz and the fifth frequency which is incremented by 4 times 15.6 MHz.

The orthogonality of the antenna patterns can be analyzed by performing a single value decomposition SVD on the observation matrix calculated in Equation 12 . show the eigenvalues associated with the simulation parameters. The results indicate that eigenvalues are near zero around the 30eigenvalue. Clearly the antenna patterns are not orthogonal. The rank of the matrix can be improved by using more elements longer delay lines and more bandwidth but it is never full rank for a realizable system.

1 D antenna patterns were simulated using algorithms based upon matched filter processing and weighted least squares WSLQ . The matrices required for the WLSQ fit were generated by sampling the array manifold vector in angle every 512 radians and the matrix inverse was computed in Matlab using the pseudo inverse function. The results are shown in . The red curve shows the results for a WSLQ fit to the desired antenna pattern shown by the blue curve and the black curve is generated using conventional or a matched filter approach. As expected the sidelobes are high.

The sidelobes levels in the antenna patterns can be reduced using adaptive digital signal processing techniques that do not distort the desired signal response while minimizing the signals from another direction. Mathematically these conditions are described using

1 D antenna patterns were simulated for signal to noise ratios SNR of 10 20 and 25 dB as shown in . The SNRs were calculated for a single antenna element. The array of null angles went from 2 to 2 in 256 increments with the region at the desired angle 128 excluded. The antenna patterns were calculated at angles going from 2 to 2 in 256 increments but were offset by 512.

The results indicate that the maximum peak sidelobe level is approximately 15 dB below the signal of interest for an SNR of 10 dB. The performance improves with increasing SNR. The Rayleigh criterion for angular resolution for a linear array at broadside is given by

The simulation results indicate that reasonable 1 D patterns can be generated for stationary targets. The sidelobe levels in the 1 D patterns improve as the number of elements and the fractional bandwidth is increased. The performance also improved as the number of frequencies is increased but levels off as it approaches the number of antenna elements. For the parameters selected reasonable sidelobe levels required a relatively high SNR.

A radar system based upon a preferred embodiment architecture detects then estimates the location and velocity of targets in its field of view. The relationship between the parameters required for tracking and the target returns is complex and cannot be estimated using conventional radar signal processing algorithm. However the estimation problem can be formulated as a nonlinear optimization problem of a cost function. The cost function can be minimized using a variety of techniques depending upon the application. Genetic algorithms simulated annealing or particle swarm algorithms can be used to minimize cost functions with multiple local minimums. Reference is made to Mordecai Avriel Nonlinear Programming Analysis and Methods Dover Publishing. 2003 for further explanation hereby incorporated by reference . These techniques can be combined with traditional approaches such as gradient descent Newton s method or Nelder Mead method once the global minimum is located. Reference is made to J. A. Nelder and R. Mead Computer Journal 1965 vol 7 pp 308 313 hereby incorporated by reference.

2 D slices of the cost function described in Equation 19 were generated for a target with an initial position of 5 0 m and a velocity of 15 15 m s in the x y plane with no phase offset acceleration or noise using the same radar parameters as previously described for the 1 D antenna simulation. 2 D slices of the cost functions were plotted in as a function of position and velocity while the other parameters were fixed at their correct values. The plot increments are at 0.8 of the theoretical range and velocity resolution derived from the Rayleigh criterion.

For these simulated parameters the target is clearly localized in velocity and downrange with resolution equal to the Rayleigh criteria but the minimum associated with the crossrange position of the target has a relatively low separation between competing local minimums. The localization of the crossrange position will be more sensitive to noise but the global minimum is centered around the correct value and is slightly wider than the value predicted by the Rayleigh criteria. This result is expected since the stationary 1 d antenna patterns also had large sidelobes. The sidelobes of the cost function plots can be improved by changing the radar and waveform parameters. Increases in the percent bandwidth of the waveform the length of the time delays and the number of elements will reduce the sidelobes in the plots of the cost functions. Also performance improvements can be achieved by extended this concept from a single array with one ADC to multiple subarrays with a dedicated ADC for each subarray. These results indicate that it is possible to estimate the position and velocity of a point scatter target from 2 D slices of the proposed cost function with resolution close to the Rayleigh criterion.

As described herein a preferred embodiment radar architecture comprises a single input and single output that supports 3 d electronically scanning of moving targets with high spatial resolution. The architecture is based upon a frequency scanning antenna with random length feed lines. The feasibility of the architecture to perform target localization in position and velocity was confirmed by analyzing 1 D antenna patterns and a cost function based upon an L norm. As described above a single realization of the system was selected simulated and analyzed. The results indicate that the concept is feasible but require a high SNR and complex signal processing.

For the selected parameters the 1 D antenna patterns generated using matched filter and weighted least squares processing had high sidelobe levels. To improve the results the sidelobes were nulled over all angles except the desired angular region. A final antenna pattern was formed by taking the minimum value of each antenna pattern at every angle. This resulted in antenna patterns with resolution predicted by classical array theory but it required increased signal processing and it is susceptible to interference by other targets. Although 1 D antenna patterns were described in the foregoing description 2 D patterns can be generated using the same techniques.

Target localization will require nonlinear optimization of a cost function. 2 D slices of a cost function base upon Lnorm indicate that global minimum exist for localizing simple targets. However the y position estimate had a relatively small separation between other competing local minimum. The range and velocity resolution seen in the plots of the cost function are consistent with the range and velocity resolution calculated from the Rayleigh criterion.

Generally the solution to the localization algorithm may be calculated off the radar platform. Doppler detections that exceed a given threshold could be wirelessly transmitted to a central computer for more processing. This will reduce the cost size and power requirements of the radar front end. The power size and cost of the central computer system would be larger than traditional radar systems but it could serve multiple roles and be located in a secure location with adequate resources.

Radar system shown in can also detect and then estimate the location and velocity of targets in its field of view. The relationship between these parameters and the target returns is can be viewed as a nonlinear optimization problem of a cost function.

As explained above a cost function for a non linear optimization problem can be minimized using a variety of techniques. For example genetic algorithms simulated annealing or particle swarm algorithms may be used to minimize cost functions with multiple local minimums. These techniques can be combined with traditional approaches such as gradient descent Newton s method or Nelder Mead method once the global minimum is located.

For example one possible cost function to minimize the Euclidian or L norm of the cost function given by Equation 18 

The techniques provided by the embodiments herein may be implemented on an integrated circuit chip not shown .

The embodiments herein can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment or a combination of software and hardware embodiment i.e. an embodiment including both hardware and software elements . The embodiments that are implemented in software include but are not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the software described herein can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code may include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers. Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Moderns cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

A more general representation of the hardware environment for practicing the embodiments herein is depicted in . This schematic drawing illustrates hardware configuration of an information handling computer system in accordance with the embodiments herein. Hardware configuration comprises at least one processor or central processing unit CPU . The CPUs are interconnected via system bus to various devices such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and an input output I O adapter . The I O adapter can connect to peripheral devices such as disk units and tape drives or other program storage devices that are readable by the system. The system can read the inventive instructions on the program storage devices and follow these instructions to execute the methodology of the embodiments herein. The system further includes a user interface adapter that connects a keyboard mouse speaker microphone and or other user interface devices such as a touch screen device not shown to the bus to gather user input. Additionally a communication adapter connects the bus to a data processing network and a display adapter connects the bus to a display device that may be embodied as an output device such as a monitor printer or transmitter for example.

A preferred embodiment of the present invention provides a large trade space for optimizing the radar configuration bandwidth number of antenna elements number of frequencies angular and range resolution equal to Rayleigh criterion and the concept is feasible for short range Doppler radar.

As used herein the terminology resolving power relates to the ability of the imaging system to measure the angular separation of the points. The terminology resolution or minimum resolvable distance is the minimum distance between distinguishable objects in an image.

As used herein the terminology Rayleigh Criterion means the standard criterion used to characterize the spatial resolution of an imaging system based upon the minimum resolvable detail for an imaging system i.e. how close two points can be to each other before they become indistinguishable. The criterion is satisfied when the central maximum of the Airy Disk of one imaged point falls below the first minimum of the other. Resolution of images are limited by diffraction when the first diffraction minimum of the image of one source point coincides with the maximum of another. In the case of a single slit the wavelength is equal to the slit width and the angle for the first diffraction minimum is 90 . The criterion relates to how finely an optical system is able to distinguish the location of objects that are near each other. The criterion for resolution is that the central ring in the diffraction pattern of one image should fall on the first dark interval between the Airy disk of the other and its first diffraction ring. For an objective lens of diameter d circular aperture utilizing light with a wavelength the formula for the criterion is approximated by 1.22 d.

As used herein the terminology processor means CPU computer PC laptop computer notebook computer microprocessor multiprocessor minicomputer main frame computer or a combination thereof.

As used herein orthogonality is defined as occurring when two vectors in space are at right angles their dot product is zero. The condition of orthogonality is when x y 0.

As used herein the terminology down converted refers to the definition know in the art of signal processing. For example down conversion results when a digital down converter DDC converts a digitized real signal centered at an intermediate frequency IF to a basebanded complex signal centered at zero frequency.

As used herein the terminology unequal spacing between antenna elements means that the distances between the antenna elements is not equal.

As used herein the terminology nonplanar antenna elements means that the antenna elements are not positioned in a single plane.

As used herein the terminology stepped frequency refers to the application of a waveform at each frequency step or hop . Stepped frequency includes the stepped change of radiated signal frequency over a range of defined discrete frequencies frequency changing with random frequency steps periodically in time . Stepped frequency includes changing of the spectrum central frequency of radiated narrow band signals in successive times periodically over the range of discrete frequencies and or discrete changing of the spectrum central frequency of radiated narrow band signals over the defined group or range of discrete frequencies according to a random low in successive times.

As used herein the terminology norm of a mathematical object is a quantity that in some possibly abstract sense describes the length size or extent of the object. A norm is a function that assigns a strictly positive length or size to all vectors in a vector space other than the zero vector. normalx square root x x. . . x .

As used herein the terminology Euclidian norm relates to the magnitude assigned in a 2 dimensional Euclidean space R. Where elements in this vector space are usually drawn as arrows in a 2 dimensional Cartesian coordinate system starting at the origin 0 0 the length of the vector arrow is the Euclidean norm. On Rn the intuitive notion of length of the vector x x x . . . xn is captured using the Pythagorean Theorem.

As used herein the terminology optimization means choosing the best value or values from some set of available alternatives.

As used herein the terminology optimization of a function means finding best available values of the function given a defined domain.

As used herein the terminology optimization problem refers to a problem of finding the best solution from all feasible solutions. In mathematical terms an optimization problem A is a quadruple I f m g where I is a set of instances given an instance f x is the set of feasible solutions given an instance x and a feasible solution y of x m x y denotes the measure of y which is usually a positive real. g is the goal function and is either min or max. The objective is then to find for some instance x an optimal solution a feasible solution y with M x y gm x y y f x .

As used herein the terminology delay line or delay lines means any sort of transmission line or circuit device or an electric network approximation of a delay line which if terminated in its characteristic impedance will reproduce at its output a waveform applied to its input terminals with known distortion but delayed in time by an amount dependent upon the electrical length or electrical characteristics of the circuit device or network of the line.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

