---

title: Unified online conversation application and platform
abstract: A user interface is provided for conducting online conversations that span asynchronous and synchronous modes of communications. Users can initiate a new conversation or find existing conversations by choosing images of friends from a drop down list based on text input of friends' names. Conversations are represented in a tree-branch configuration such that new comments added to a conversation are associated directly to the existing comments to which they respond. Branches can be opened or collapsed automatically or at the users' option, allowing the user focus his attention on part(s) of the conversation. Content from the web can be searched and found content can be included into the body of a comment. All participants in a conversation see the same representation of the conversation and links to referenced Web content are maintained in tact regardless of the length and complexity of the conversation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09450769&OS=09450769&RS=09450769
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09450769
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100524
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 216 936 filed May 22 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates generally to creating delivering reading and responding to on screen conversations over a distributed computer network.

Online communications typically involve a person initiating a text message with one or more other person s on a subject of common interest by using a software application on a computer or other network connected device. Recipients of the message are notified of the communication and can respond through a compatible software application on a computer or device connected to a common network. Whether or not an online communication has a designated subject or topic the subject matter may change in the course of communications and so may the participants. Changing topics and or participants in the course of interpersonal communications is a natural and common attribute of conversation regardless of the medium be it in person via voice communications or through textual online communication applications.

Examples of existing online communications include electronic mail email instant messaging IM and short messaging services SMS aka texting . Currently online communications are hindered by segregated platforms and applications for different modes of communication. For example email is optimized for asynchronous online messaging while instant messaging is optimized for synchronous online communications and SMS is optimized for mobile messaging. Even within the same online communications channel e.g. email different human interfaces and different methods of storing and transmitting data result in different views of the communications among participants in the same conversation. Indeed the view of a given participant may change depending on which type of network connect device and what network s she is using to conduct an ongoing communication. All of these factors result in discontinuous and disjointed conversations even without changes in the participants or initial topic. In the absence of a unified online application and platform for online communications each participant is effectively required to reconstruct a multi channel conversation in his or her own imagination.

Furthermore the lack of rich content integration by text oriented online communications applications limits the ability of people to express their thoughts. If the adage that a picture is worth a thousand words is true then trillions of words are forgone every day by the inability of current online communication to convey images or audio or video. Even as the World Wide Web has transformed from a text and page oriented medium into a highly expressive and dynamic environment rich with images audio and video online communications have remained largely textual and static in nature. In the cases of email and instant messaging rich content has to be either attached as a separate file or inserted as a hypertext link links that are often broken in the transmission process. Where file attachments are involved each recipient must store a separate copy of the file sometimes multiple copies if more than one application client is used. As for SMS it simply does not support images audio or video which has forced the advent of yet another segmented online communication application to accommodate rich media in the mobile environment namely Multimedia Messaging Service or MMS.

While some so called social networks are to some limited extent more compatible with rich Web content they are also are much more oriented to multicast or broadcast communications and not to private communications among a select group of participants.

In addition to being limited in support for rich content and media today s online communication applications and platforms are limited in their ability to support model the natural flow of human conversation. Email IM and SMS are appropriately described as messaging applications and platforms indicative of their inherent design bias toward terse and task oriented communications. This bias is evidenced by the user interface metaphor of email an office memorandum complete with the anachronistic term of carbon copy. An office memo may be a good model for communications with a specific purpose e.g. the time and location of a staff meeting but the structure and layout of email does not lend itself to the natural flow of conversation and the same is true of IM and SMS. For instance email instant messaging and SMS applications all show messages in chronological sequence rather than by topical or logical relationship. Simple threading or grouping of messages by topic is sometimes offered by email applications as a visual aid to help users to follow the flow of a conversation. But threading is at best a superficial solution to a fundamental deficiency in today s online communications.

Finally online communications applications are not well integrated with the rapidly evolving category of online social networks. For example online communications applications generally use a separate a static database of contacts requiring input and maintenance by each user. While there are services that synchronize contact lists among different online communications applications and different computers and devices used to interface with these applications these services are often costly and they still require each user to maintain her set of contacts independently. By contrast social networks offer a much more dynamic approach to contact or friend management. Each member of the social network provides and maintains his own profile including images and contact information which is then shared with and automatically updated for all of his friends. While some social networks have started to provide simple email like and IM like online communication applications for communication between select friends rather than the more typical mode of social network communication to all friends these have more limited functionality than dedicated online communication applications of email and IM.

Embodiments disclosed herein include a software application including a graphical user interface and underlying server technologies designed to support online conversations that for example 

 a are conducted both asynchronously i.e. where two or more participants respond to each other at different times and synchronously i.e. where participants respond simultaneously 

 b seamlessly integrate rich content from the web including images audio and video without leaving the user interface 

 c accommodate the natural flow of topics within a single continuous conversation through novel methods relating to the insertion and representation of new comments 

 d leverage the presence of social networks integrating profiles images and contact information of friends in a way that is continuously and automatically updated for all users.

Various embodiments span different modes of communications. In some embodiments the user interface and underlying technology is designed with the expectation that a single conversation among the same participants can be conducted both asynchronously i.e. where two or more participants respond to each other at different times and synchronously i.e. where participants respond simultaneously . These different uses cases are addressed for example through stored and real time notifications of conversation updates.

While there are current examples of email and instant messaging applications that are bundled by a service provider on a single home screen these applications remain segregated in function and content. And while use cases of email and instant messaging and texting sometimes overlap for instance email messages are sometimes exchanged so quickly that they feel like instant messages and instant messages are sometimes posted knowing that the other party is not present these use cases are outside the design boundaries of current online communications applications driving users back to multi modal online conversations.

Various embodiments support the seamless integration of rich content from the web including images audio and video. For example a search function is integrated within the conversation editor allowing users to find insert and view relevant web content without leaving the application or the conversation flow. Search results are presented in a consistent graphical form including a representative image where possible rather than a hypertext link. Search results that refer to specific media types e.g. audio or video content are recognized by the application allowing users to play the content before adding it to the conversation and allowing recipients to play the content within the conversation view. All participants in the conversation see exactly the same representation of web content and links back to the content s site of origin are maintained intact no matter how long or complex the conversation.

In contrast to this integrated approach existing online communications of email instant messaging and SMS treat web content as separate foreign objects. Perhaps this is because the invention of email predated the advent of the World Wide Web by over a decade. But for whatever reasons email instant messaging and SMS all force users to 1 leave the respective communications application 2 find the content to be shared in a web browser through a search or otherwise 3 copy the URL from the browser and 4 paste the URL of the web content into the conversation editor. In the best case scenario the reverse process occurs upon receipt of the message that is the recipient clicks the link in the message which automatically the link in a web browser. However this often fails because many URLs are so long and complex they span more than one line in a message such as with Google Map URLs so that the links are broken by the time they are received. In addition to frustrating recipients the presence of URL strings clutters the messages and disrupts the natural flow of the conversation.

In some embodiments the user interface uniquely embraces and models the natural flow of conversations. Conversations can start with one topic but wander to others and then circle back. The user interface and the underlying content messaging system is designed with this these characteristics in mind. It is simple to respond to a specific comment in a conversation regardless of its chronological order and to make that intent is clear to all participants in the conversation. Conversations are represented in a tree like structure in comments and their respective responses are shown as branches. These branches can be expanded or collapsed either automatically or at the user s option making it easier to follow and contribute to long and complex conversations.

By contrast conventional online communications applications simply present a stream of messages in the chronological order they were posted. While some email clients offer the option to thread conversations these are superficial groupings of message with the same topic. Thus unrelated messages that happen to have the same topic are erroneously grouped in the same thread. Like email instant messaging and SMS applications simply show posts in the sequence they were received by the server. If more than one participant is typing at the same time a common occurrence comments and responses often appear as non sequiturs. This situation is exacerbated by differences in the speeds of network connections computers and typing among different participants.

Finally various embodiments leverage the existence and contents of rapidly evolving social networks. For instance the user interface provides access to existing friend lists from Facebook including their friends pictures profiles phone numbers and other information . This not only saves users the tasks of setting up and maintaining individual address books it also creates a richer and friendlier online communications environment. Users see images of their friends throughout the application interface and these images are used to facilitate starting filtering and adding to conversations. Other social networks in addition to Facebook can be integrated in the same way through a platform designed to support automated application programming interfaces APIs and to accommodate a wide range of heterogeneous data schema across these various social networks.

Existing online communications applications take a very different approach to personal contacts and friend lists. Separate contacts list are entered and stored in each different application one for email another for instant messaging and so on. While there are services that synchronize contact lists among these disparate applications their use is limited by their complexity and cost. And while most instant messaging applications allow users to post personal images this feature is commonly overlooked or ignored in contrast to social networks where posting a personal image is much more the norm .

Various embodiments described herein provide a method apparatus and a computer readable storage medium including executable computer instructions for initiating delivering viewing and contributing to private online conversations over a distributed computer network. Using an online application within common Internet browser using standard Internet protocols a user can initiate a conversation or view and contribute to ongoing conversations. A user interface is provided that provides a rich and graphical user experience including the ability to see images of participants in the initiation filtering and viewing of conversations. These images are in part acquired and updated through automated application programming interfaces or APIs between the unified online conversation application platform and external online social networks. The user interface is designed to accommodate a natural flow of conversation topics with the contents of the conversation being presented in a visual tree and branch configuration which presents comments in their logical relationship not just their chronological sequence. In addition within the user interface a user can search the World Wide Web for rich content including formatted text images audio and video and include that content seamlessly into a comment in an online conversation.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

In some embodiments a consumer software application that is hosted within a common Internet browser is provided. As such the user is not required to install any software on to her computer rather she has access to the software application simply to directing the browser to a specified web address. represents the core components of the home screen of the application with an image of the user prominently displayed. This image is the same representation of the user seen by others participants in the user s conversations. The home screen shows short summaries of all conversations in which the user is a participant. For each conversation summary there is a notification of new comments since the last visit to the site . In the event that a participant in one of the conversations is currently adding a comment to a conversation such conversation summary ies will be positioned at the top of the page and a real time notification message will be shown . All participants in each conversation are shown with an image whenever available. When an image is not available the name in text is shown instead . A consistent visual indicator shows that certain participants are currently online and logged into the application presumably available for real time conversation.

Note that the person by whom the conversations were filtered appears in all of the filtered conversations .

Expanding and collapsing branches of the conversation tree can be done in an automated fashion as well. shows an expanded conversation that goes beyond the length of user s screen. As the user scrolls down the page details at the top of the page are automatically collapsed and summarized in the hierarchical fashion described above. shows the conversation view after this collapsing of details above has occurred. shows the conversation detail screen after the collapsing of a comment or branch as described above in . As the user moves her cursor over the conversation detail screen highlighted lines appear where a new comment can be inserted within the conversation. Along with this insertion line indicator the preexisting comment or paragraph within a comment to which the new comment will be related is automatically highlighted . Note that in the cased shown a new comment is being inserted within an existing comment suggesting a response to a specific statement or question in the form of a paragraph.

Thus embodiments disclosed herein provide an improved online communications by allowing continuous conversations spanning asynchronous and synchronous modes of communication. These techniques also improve on the graphical representation of conversations supporting a more natural flow of topics and participants. These techniques also provide improved methods of finding and seamlessly integrating rich content from the Web into online conversations. And these techniques integrate content and profiles from social networks into conversations as well.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions which may be coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to a product that is produced by a computing process described herein. Such a product may comprise information resulting from a computing process where the information is stored on a non transitory tangible computer readable storage medium and may include any embodiment of a computer program product or other data combination described herein.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

