---

title: Enhanced ocular neuroprotection and neurostimulation
abstract: Use of topically applied cyclosporine to enhance corneal sensitivity restoration rate in an eye of an individual after ocular surgery such as laser-assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK) in which nerves are severed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08202840&OS=08202840&RS=08202840
owner: Optivue L.L.P.
number: 08202840
owner_city: Reading
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20101028
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 561 912 filed Nov. 21 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 833 966 which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 263 737 filed Nov. 1 2005 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 183 355 filed Jul. 18 2005 now abandoned each of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Methods to enhance corneal sensation and or reduce scarring after ocular surgery and to enhance ocular neuroprotection and or neurostimulation to reduce neurodegenerative changes that may be associated with glaucoma or other ocular diseases.

Methods and compositions that enhance a patient s condition prophylactically or therapeutically or after ocular surgery are desirable.

One embodiment is a composition comprising at least one neuro stimulatory factor in a pharmaceutically effective concentration and formulation for non systemic localized ocular administration and effect. The composition contains macrolides or may further be modified to contain one or more macrolides if not already present. It may be formulated with excipients for topical ocular administration administration in an ocular device or delayed release matrix administration by subconjunctival or intraocular injection etc. It may be contained in an intraocular implant an intraocular lens or a contact lens. The neuroprotective or neurostimulatory factor may be a macrolide which may be cyclosporine tacrolimus sirolimus everolimus pimocrolous or others macrolide analog neurotrophin and or a neuropoietic factor. In some embodiments one or more other agents may also be included for example an antioxidant steroid non steroidal anti inflammatory drug antibiotic anti proliferative agent anti cell migration agent anti prostaglandin anti angiogenic agent vitamin mineral growth factor or cytokine.

Another embodiment is an ocular method comprising administering to a patient after ocular surgery a composition comprising at least one neurostimulatory factor which also encompasses a macrolide or macrolide analog with neurostimulatory activity in a pharmaceutically effective concentration and formulation for non systemic localized ocular administration. The composition may be ocularly administered topically subconjunctivally intraocularly by implantation in a device or a lens or from a contact lens. The composition may be administered to the patient after corneal surgeries or procedures such as laser assisted in situ keratomileusis LASIK laser assisted in situ epithelial keratomileusis LASEK photorefractive keratectomy PRK keratoplasty total corneal transplant partial corneal transplant etc.

Another embodiment is an ocular method whereby a macrolide or macrolide analog is administered to a post ocular surgery patient to reduce or minimize ocular scarring. The macrolide may be present as a component in a composition administered to provide a neuroprotective and or neurostimulatory effect. Alternatively the macrolide may be administered to reduce or minimize scarring following any type of ocular surgery including but not limited to glaucoma surgery retinal detachment repair surgery and corneal surgery.

Another embodiment is a method for administering a macrolide macrolide analog neurotrophin and or neuropoietic agent prophylactically to patients having or at risk for developing an ocular neurologic or neurosensory disease or therapeutically to patients with an ocular neurologic or neurosensory disease either alone or in conjunction with other therapy. Glaucoma is a non limiting example of an ocular disease with a neuroassociated component. Retinitis pigmentosa is a non limiting example of an ocular disease with a neurosensory component.

Another embodiment discloses topical ocular cyclosporine to enhance recovery of corneal sensitivity in patients after corneal incisional or lamellar surgeries or procedures such as LASIK LASEK PRK etc. Topical ocular cyclosporine applied post LASIK surgery has reduced inflammatory processes and enhanced secretion of a tear film component thereby reducing symptoms of dry eye however topical ocular cyclosporine efficacy in enhancement of post LASIK corneal sensitivity recovery rate has not previously been demonstrated prior to the present invention. Topical ocular cyclosporine effect on enhancement in ocular nerve regeneration has not previously been suggested prior to the present invention.

These and other embodiments of the invention will be further appreciated in view of the following drawings detailed description and examples.

One embodiment is a method to enhance patient recovery after ocular surgery or other trauma by enhancing corneal sensation ocular nerve regeneration and or re enervation. The method enhances the restoration rate and restores at least partially the loss of corneal sensation that occurs following corneal procedures during which nerves are severed. The method also reduces or minimizes post surgical scarring that could lead to corneal opacification reduced vision and or other complications by compositions with a macrolide or macrolide analog component. For example it could be used to reduce or minimize scarring of the conjunctiva that occurs after glaucoma surgery or scarring that may lead to proliferative vitreal retinopathy PVR after retinal detachment repair surgery or scarring that occurs after corneal surgery. While not being bound by a specific theory a method to reduce or minimize post ocular surgery scarring may enhance ocular sensation nerve regeneration and or re enervation possibly by minimizing scar tissue that may impair nerve growth nerve cell connections etc. The method thus leads to enhanced recovery following ocular surgery.

One embodiment is a method to enhance ocular neuroprotection and or neurostimulation in or to an eye by locally administering to the eye in a non systemic manner a composition of at least one neuroprotective or neurostimulatory factor. The neuroprotective or neurostimulatory factor may be administered either alone or in combination with other agents such as neurotrophins neuropoietins etc. The neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective factor may be but is not limited to a macrolide a macrolide analog a neurotrophin and or a neuropoietic agent.

One embodiment provides localized ocular administration of macrolides and or macrolide analogs either alone or in combination with other neuro stimulatory agents such as neurotrophins neuropoietins etc. The macrolides and or macrolide analogs may or may not have neuro stimulatory activity.

 Corneal anesthesia is an unwanted consequence in some patients who have undergone an ocular surgical procedure. Such procedures include laser assisted in situ keratomileusis LASIK laser assisted in situ epithelial keratomileusis LASEK photorefractive keratectomy PRK and keratoplasty i.e. corneal transplant total or partial . In some of these types of procedures the surgeon creates a micro thin flap shown in in the cornea and stroma to access the cornea. For example LASIK is a refractive procedure in which a laser is used to both create the flap and then to sculpt the underlying corneal tissue to form a more effective shape. LASIK involves mechanical section of the corneal nerve during creation of the flap to expose the stromal bed for laser ablation.

The stromal corneal flap may be created using a femtosecond computer guided laser or a hand held microkeratome with an oscillating metal blade. The flap is then folded open to provide access to the cornea for the procedure after which the flap is then closed by returning to its original position. It seals without stitches and heals shut. The flap promotes post surgical healing patient comfort and improved vision. If the flap is not of the proper thickness e.g. too thick too thin or irregular the patient s healing and quality of vision may be compromised.

In creating the LASIK flap the nerves that enervate the surface of the cornea are mechanically dissected. This results in corneal nerve destruction and consequently reduced corneal sensitivity within the LASIK flap area. One study reported that the number of sub basal and stromal nerve fiber bundles in the corneal flap decreased 90 immediately following surgery. Although the sub basal nerve fiber bundles gradually returned their number remained less than half of the pre surgical number. The loss of corneal sensation caused by a decrease in the number of enervating nerves and or their function may last up to about six months after the original procedure. Diabetic patients are particularly prone to decreased corneal nerve function yet are a group of patients in frequent need of corneal transplants.

After surgery corneal nerve fibers gradually re innervate the cornea and corneal sensation is slowly restored. Complete corneal recovery after LASIK is a very slow process and compromised corneal sensitivity is a precarious situation. A low corneal sensitivity threshold is required for early detection of foreign bodies injury and or pathological changes. The loss of normal corneal sensation can compromise the protective blink reflex delay epithelial wound healing decrease tear flow and be associated with neurotrophic keratilis sterile corneal melts and or infectious keratides. At least six months is necessary for full restoration of corneal sensitivity even longer for patients with higher degrees of myopia. Complete nerve restoration i.e. re enervation to pre surgical density levels is not complete before five years post LASIK.

In general LASIK LASEK PRK and other types of corneal incisional or lamellar surgeries or procedures are performed on an outpatient basis. Prior to surgery a topical anesthesia is applied to the eye and a speculum is placed to separate the eyelids.

LASEK is similar to LASIK but in LASEK a corneal epithelial flap is cut and ablation is performed on the surface followed by repositioning of the epithelial flap.

In PRK the surface corneal epithelia are removed. Laser ablation to reshape the corneal surface commences with pre programmed parameters based upon specific patient vision characteristics e.g. myopia hyperopia astigmatism etc. .

Laser thermal keratoplasty LTK uses a holmium YAG laser energy to reshape the cornea. Laser energy is applied in a predetermined pattern to shrink collagen fibers and thus steepen the cornea. Ocular tissue is neither cut nor removed.

Conductive keratoplasty CK is a non laser based ocular procedure. It does not involve cutting the cornea and reshapes the cornea using low level radiofrequency RF energy administered through a fine probe. Using the probe RF energy is applied to specific sites in a pre set marked circular pattern e.g. using a dye on the outer cornea to shrink or ablate small areas of corneal tissue. The circular shrinkage pattern creates a constrictive band thus increasing the overall curvature of the cornea.

In keratoplasty or penetrating keratoplasty the cornea is either partially or totally replaced with donor cadevar corneal tissue. The surgery is typically performed on an outpatient basis under local injectable anesthesia. Although there is some risk of rejection the corenal is essentially avascular which reduces such risk. Candidates for keratoplasty or penetrating keratoplasty include patient with keratoconus inherited corneal thinning with visual distortion with Fuch s dystrophy corneal clouding either hereditary or acquired with vision loss and or corneal scarring e.g. due to injury . Full visual recovery takes up to a year post surgery.

Corneal sensation is reduced in each of the described procedures corneal sensation is reduced to a greater extent in procedures that involve cutting compared to procedures that do not involve cutting.

Upon completion of any of these procedure the duration typically being less than one minute medicaments typically anti inflammatory agents and or antibiotics are topically applied to the corneal surface. In procedures that involve cutting a contact lens is then placed on the eye.

An example of a medication administration protocol used in the inventive method follows. At the completion of the LASIK procedure one drop of cyclosporine 0.05 w v composition such as a liquid solution or emulsion was administered onto the corneal surface s of the eye s . After at least ten minutes one drop of an anti inflammatory agent e.g. prednisolone and one drop of an antibacterial agent e.g. moxifloxacin were administered to the eye. This administration protocol was followed hourly on the day of surgery while the patient was awake. An ocular lubricant was also administered to the corneal surface hourly after surgery and then as needed to alleviate dry eye sensation. Other suitable anti inflammatories antiirritants antibiotics and ocular lubricants may be used as known to one skilled in the art.

On the day after surgery one drop of cyclosporin 0.05 w v composition was administered to the eye twice a day at intervals of about 12 hours. Then for up to about six months or more depending upon the progress of recovery a drop of the antiinflammatory antiirritant and or antibiotic was administered to the eye four times daily for one week and then twice a day for two days and then once a day for two days. The medications were administered to the eye before a lens was placed in the eye. The eye lubricant was uses on an as needed basis. The protocol was varied according the progress of recovery the sensitivity of the patient to the medications and other factors as known to one skilled in the art.

One drop of drop of cyclosporine 0.05 w v composition liquid solution or emulsion has a volume of about 0.065 ml 65 l which would contain about 32.5 g cyclosporine. Solutions of cyclosporine may have concentrations ranging from about 0.01 w v to about 1.0 w v cyclosporine thus the amount of cyclosporine that can be administered in a drop of solution to enhance ocular neuroprotection ranges from about 6.5 g to about 650 g. In other embodiments the concentration of cyclosporine ranged from about 0.05 to about 0.5 and 0.05 to about 0.1 resulting in amounts of cyclosporine administered from about 6.5 g to about 325 g and from about 6.5 g to about 65 g. One skilled in the art will know the amount of cyclosporine delivered will vary with the volume size of the drop of solution which is determined by physiochemical factors such as the number of components in solution or emulsion i.e. excipients surfactants chelators etc. surface tension aperture size of delivery apparatus etc. Solutions of cyclosporine are commercially available e.g. RETASIS 0.05 cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion Allergen .

Patients were typically evaluated at post surgical intervals of one day three days one week one month two to three months and four to six months. The bandage contact lens was typically removed on the second or third post operative day when the epithelium had healed. Most patients required eye drops to control healing only during the first six to twelve weeks but other patients usually those with greater refractive error required topically applied medicaments for up to six months or more following surgery.

After any of these corneal surgeries patients may experience problems relating to the loss of ocular sensitivity or sensation. For example decreased ocular nerve function makes the cornea prone to trauma which in turn can lead to infection. It reduces the usual blink mechanism that is required to keep the corneal surface moist leading to drying and sloughing of the corneal epithelium. This in turn causes cloudiness of the flap prones the flap to infection by enteral pathogens because of loss of barrier and reduces vision.

One embodiment of the invention is a method for ameliorating or restoring loss of corneal sensation enhancing ocular nerve regeneration and or restoring nerve function re enervation in the eye of a patient by providing locally to the eye a composition comprising at least one neuroprotective and or neurostimulatory factor. Another embodiment is a method for prophylactically administering to an eye of a patient at risk for an ocular neurologic and or neurosensory pathology a neuroprotective and or neurostimulatory factor to ameliorate or restore loss of corneal sensation enhance ocular nerve regeneration and or provide reeneravation.

One embodiment of the invention locally administers one or more agents that enhance corneal sensation possibly by nerve regeneration and or enervation. In one embodiment one or a combination of macrolides including macrolide analogues is administered the macrolide and or analogue having neuro stimulatory activity. In another embodiment one or a combination of macrolides is administered with one or more agent s that enhance corneal nerve stimulation. Such neurostimulatory agents may increase nerve cell quantity functional quality or combinations of these. One skilled in the art will appreciate that enhancement refers to any qualitative and or quantitative improvement in corneal sensation and or ocular neurological function following surgery regardless of degree.

One embodiment of the invention is a composition containing a neurostimulatory or neuroprotective macrolide macrolide analog neurotrophin and or neuropoietic factor that may be administered prophylactically to patients having or at risk for developing glaucoma retinitis pigmentosa or other neurosensory or neurodegenerative disease or may be administered to patients with glaucoma or retinitis pigmentosa either alone or in conjunction with other therapy.

Glaucoma is a general term for several types of a painless ocular condition that left untreated can result in partial or complete vision loss. It is characterized by elevated intraocular pressure considered by one skilled in the art as a pressure greater than about 21.5 mm Hg. The higher the intraocular pressure the greater the likelihood of optic nerve damage and visual field loss. In glaucoma monitoring or therapy the neurodegenerative component should be considered in addition to therapy for increased intraocular pressure such as protection of retinal ganglion cells RGC .

Known risk factors for glaucoma include age elevated risk for individuals over age 60 race elevated risk for African Americans over age 40 a family history of glaucoma individuals with diabetes severe nearsightedness long term corticosteroid use previous eye injury and or increased intraocular pressure. One risk factor may suffice for prophylactic administration of a neuroprotective and or neurostimulatory agent as described herein and risk factors may alter over time as known to one skilled in the art.

In monitoring diagnosing and or treating patients with glaucoma attainment of decreased intraocular pressure is a necessary but insufficient goal. This is because a component of glaucoma is neurologic damage to the optic nerve and ganglion cell death so that its neurodegenerative aspects must be considered. Even patients with normal intraocular pressure may develop glaucoma like changes. Further retinal ganglion cells may be more sensitive to increased intraocular pressure whereas other ocular cells may be better able to withstand increased intraocular pressure.

Retinitis pigmentosa is a general term that encompasses a disparate group of disorders of rods and cones. Because retinitis pigmentosa affects these retinal sensory structures prophylactic or therapeutic administration of neuroprotective or neurostimulatory agents may reduce decreased visual field and other adverse effects.

In one embodiment a patient is prophylactically or therapeutically administered a neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective macrolide macrolide analog neurotrophin and or neuropoietic agent. The inventive method may prevent or delay an increase in intraocular pressure may reduce associated nerve loss may confer protection on retinal sensory cells etc. Administration may be by any ocular route. One example is topical application with the neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective agent s administered in a formulation of eye drops cream ointment gel salve etc. Another example is intraocular injection with the neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective agent administered subconjunctivally intravitreally retrobulbarly within the crystalline lens via piercing the lens capsule as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 103 283 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein etc. Another example provides the neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective agent to the eye on or in a formulation such as a liposome microsphere microcapsule biocompatible matrix gel polymer nanoparticle nanocapsule etc. Another example provides the neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective agent on or in a device such as a device for transscleral delivery as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 105 756 or another intraocular device using for example iontophoresis or another type of release mechanism controlled or not controlled as known by one skilled in the art. Another example provides the neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective agent in conjunction with gene therapy as known by one skilled in the art.

A topical formulation may be administered by any ophthalmogical vehicle as know to one skilled in the art. Examples include but are not limited to eye droppers satchels applicators etc. The amount and concentration of the formulation may depend upon the diluent delivery system or device selected clinical condition of the patient side effects expected stability of the compounds of the composition presence and severity of other pathology dosing frequency active agent etc.

For topical administration examples of concentrations that may be used include but are not limited to less than 1 g mL 1 g mL to 5 g mL 5 g mL to 10 g mL 10 g mL to 50 g mL 50 g mL to 100 g mL 100 g mL to 0.5 mg mL 0.5 mg mL to 2.5 mg mL 1 mg mL to 5 mg mL 5 mg mL to 10 mg mL 10 mg mL to 15 mg mL 15 mg mL to 30 mg mL and greater than 30 mg mL. For topical administration examples of dosing regimens that may be used include but are not limited to hourly half daily daily weekly biweekly monthly quarterly three times a year twice a year yearly every two years every three years etc. Intervals between doses may be regular or varied. As one example doses may be administered hourly or daily pre and post surgery for one week for several weeks or for several months then may be administered twice a year or once a year until the desired neurostimulation and or neuroprotection is achieved. As another example doses may be administered daily or weekly pre and or post surgery for one week for several weeks for several months or for several years until the desired neurostimulation and or neuroprotection is achieved.

Ganglion cells in the retina RGC that have been damaged e.g. by elevated intraocular pressure undergo apoptosis also referred to as programmed cell death. The macrolide tacrolimus systemically administered conferred neuroprotection on RGC by interfering with apoptotic mechanisms as disclosed in Freeman and Grosskreutz Investigative Ophthalmology Visual Science 41 1111 2000 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. As a result of programmed cell death RGC release compounds whose presence and or concentration may result in toxicity remove desirable agents and or alter cell signaling these compounds include cytokines the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate Ca binding proteins FK 506 tacrolimus binding proteins and others. Thus ocular administration of a neurostimulatory and or neuroprotective macrolide macrolide analog neurotrophin and or neuropoietic factor may reduce or inhibit subsequent effects of the released cytokines glutamate etc. that are part of the neurodegenerative processes associated with glaucoma and or retinitis pigmentosa. For example macrolides tacrolimus and cyclosporine are potent immunosuppresants that inhibit T cell activation by interfering with signal transduction. In vitro tacrolimus binds to and inhibits the activity of the immunophilin FK 506 binding protein FKBP an isomerase that functions in signal transduction and cell communication. Reducing apoptotic mechanisms would reduce such processes and thus protect or delay neurosensory impairment or neurodegenerative damage.

Such administration of macrolides may be alone or may be in conjunction with other agents used to reduce intraocular pressure in patients with elevated intraocular pressure due to ocular hypertension or open angle glaucoma. For example administration may be included with a current drug regimen or at different intervals than a current regimen or for a set duration etc all these are examples of administration in conjunction with other agent. Examples of known drugs include but are not limited to Diamox acetazolamide N 5 sulfamoyl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl acetamide an inhibitor of carbonic anhydrase Wyeth Madison N.J. Timoptic timolol maleate ophthalmic solution Merck Whitehouse Station N.J. Xalatan latanaprost ophthalmic solution Pfizer Groton Conn. Copaxone Teva Pharmaceuticals Petah Tiqva Israel Memantine Allergan Irvine Calif. Alphagan P brimonidine tartrate ophthalmic solution Allergan and others known to one skilled in the art. In this embodiment the inventive method may use macrolides to potentiate the action of current treatments. For example acetazolamide may assist in normal polarization of cell membranes so the effect of local ocular treatment with acetazolamide and a neuroprotective macrolide or agent is reduced apoptic effects and normalized polarization of sensory retinal ganglion cells. The dual action may be additive or synergistic.

Macrolides encompassed by the invention are those known by one skilled in the art as well as analogs and derivatives. These are disclosed in for example U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 667 161 and 10 752 124. Macrolides and their analogues that may be administered include the following.

Cyclosporine Cyclosporin A topical formulation Arrestase Allergan Inc. is a cyclic peptide produced by . It is available commercially for example from Sigma Aldrich St Louis Mo. . It is an immunosuppressant and acts in a particular subset of T lymphocytes the helper T cells. Cyclosporine exerts an immunosuppressant effect by inhibiting production of the cytokine interleukin 2. Each of cyclosporine and tacrolimus another immunosuppressant produces significant renal and hepatic toxicity when each is administered systemically because of this toxicity they are not administered together. The use of cyclosporine as a specific medicament for treatment of ocular disease with reduced toxicity is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 289 772. Cyclosporine is commercially available as a 0.05 emulsion for ophthalmic application under the trademark RESTASIS Allergan . Its indication is increased tear production in patients with ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca chronic dry eye .

Tacrolimus Prograf previously known as FK506 a macrolide immunosuppressant produced by is a tricyclo hydrophobic compound that is practically insoluble in water but is freely soluble in ethanol and is very soluble in methanol and chloroform. It is available under prescription as either capsules for oral administration or as a sterile solution for intravenous administration. The solution contains the equivalent of 5 mg anhydrous tacrolimus in 1 ml polyoxyl 60 hydrogenated castor oil HCO 60 200 mg and dehydrated alcohol USP 80.0 and must be diluted with a solution of 0.9 NaCl or 5 dextrose before use.

Sirolimus also known as rapamycin RAPA and Rapamune is a triene macrolide antibiotic derived from and originally developed as an antifungal agent. Subsequently it has shown anti inflammatory anti tumor and immunosuppressive properties. Pimecrolimus also known as ascomycin Immunomycin and FR 900520 is an ethyl analog of tacrolimus and has strong immunosuppressant properties. It inhibits Th1 and Th2 cytokines and preferentially inhibits activation of mast cells and is used to treat contact dermatitis and other dermatological conditions. Sirolimus and pimecrolimus are commercially available e.g. A.G. Scientific Inc. San Diego Calif. .

Regarding its immunosuppressive potential sirolimus has some synergetic effect with cyclosporine. It has been reported that sirolimus has a different mode of action compared to cyclosporine and tacrolimus. All three agents are immunosuppressants which affect the action of immune cell modulators cytokines but do not affect the immune cells themselves. However while all three agents affect immune cell modulators they do so differently cyclosporine and tacrolimus prevent synthesis of cytokine messengers specifically interleukin 2 while sirolimus acts on cytokine that has already been synthesized preventing it from reaching immune cells.

Sirolimus inhibits inflammation by acting on both T lymphocytes and dendritic cells. The latter are the first cells to recognize antigens. Sirolimus blocks the growth of dendritic cells and a number of other cells such as tumors and endothelial cells which are activated by the tumor cell releasing vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF . VEGF is a central regulator of angiogenesis formation of new blood vessels from pre exiting vessels and vasculogenesis development of embryonic vasculature through an influence on endothelial cell differentiation and organization . Diseases that are characterized by abnormal angiogenesis and vasculogenesis such as some cancers and some ocular diseases may show abnormal production of VEGF. Thus control of VEGF function may be one means to control or treat these diseases. Sirolimus has also been used in the prevention of smooth muscle hyperplasia after coronary stent surgery. The use of sirolimus and ascomycin as specific medicaments for treatment of ocular disease has been disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 631 143.

Everolimus also known as RAD 001 SCZ RAD Certican Novartis Basel Switzerland is an analog of sirolimus but is a new and distinct chemical entity. It is an oral immunosuppressant that inhibits growth factor induced cell proliferation and thus reduces acute organ rejection and vasculopathy the proliferation of smooth muscle cells in the innermost wall of grafts that restricts blood supply.

It will be appreciated that the invention encompasses the use of macrolides in addition to those previously described. These include for example clindamycin leucomycins zoatrolimus the known antibiotics erythromycin and its derivatives such as azithromycin and clarithromycin lincomycin dirithromycin josamycin spiramycin diacetyl midecamycin troleandomycin tylosin and roxithromycin and other macrolides such as biolimus ABT 578 methylrapamycin macrolide derivatives such as temsirolimus CCl 779 Wyeth and AP23573 Ariad both rapamycin derivatives . The invention also includes new macrolide antibiotic scaffolds and derivatives in development including but not limited to the ketolides ABT 773 and telithromycin as described by Schonfeld and Kirst Eds. in Macrolide Antibiotics Birkhauser Basel Switzerland 2002 macrolides derived from leucomycins as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 436 906 6 440 942 and 6 462 026 assigned to Enanta Pharmaceuticals Watertown Mass. and lincosamides each of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Any of the above described macrolides may be used in the invention. In one embodiment the total macrolide concentration ranges from less than 1 ng ml to about 10 mg ml. In another embodiment the total macrolide concentration ranges from about 1 ng ml to about 1 mg ml. In another embodiment the total macrolide concentration ranges from about 20 g ml to about 200 g m. In another embodiment the total macrolide concentration is below 5 mg ml. Formulations and doses of macrolides are described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 10 667 161 and 10 752 124 each of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Specific macrolide analogues accelerate nerve regeneration and functional recovery as disclosed in Revill et al. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Therap. 2002 302 1278 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. For example genetically engineered 13 and 15 desmethoxy analogs of ascomycin examples of macrolide analogs that contain hydrogen methyl or ethyl instead of methoxy at either the 13 the 15 or both the 13 and 15 positions enhanced neurite outgrowth in cultured SH SY5Y neuroblastoma cells at concentrations of 1 mg kg day and 5 mg kg day with nerve growth factor NGF at a concentration of 10 ng ml. The ascomycin analog 13 desmethoxy 13 methyl 18 hydroxy 13 Me 18 OH at concentrations of 1 mg kg day and 5 mg kg day was demonstrated to accelerate nerve regeneration and lead to full functional recovery walking in a rat sciatic nerve crush model.

The combination of a macrolide and another neurostimulatory or neuroprotective factor s such as neurotrophins or neuropoietins is used in one embodiment.

Neurotrophins are a family of polypeptides that enhance survival of nervous tissue by maintenance growth differentiation etc. They stimulate the growth of sympathetic and sensory nerve cells in both the central and peripheral nervous system. All neurotrophins have six conserved cysteine residues and share a 55 amino acid sequence identity. Some are in a pro neurotrophin form and are cleaved to produce a mature form. Examples of neurotrophins include nerve growth factor NGF brain derived neurotrophic factor BDNF neurotrophin 3 NT 3 neurotrophin 4 NT 4 neurotrophin 6 NT 6 . These are available commercially for example from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. Axxora San Diego Calif. mouse 2.5 S and 7 S components NGF human recombinant NGF and pro NGF. Further examples of neurotrophins are products of the neural regeneration protein NRP gene.

Different neuron types require different neurotrophins depending upon their receptor expression. All neurotrophins are capable of binding to p75 neurotrophin growth factor receptors which are low affinity receptors. Specific neurotrophins and mature neurotrophins bind to different tyrosine kinase trk receptors which are higher affinity receptors than p75 receptors. Tyrosine kinase receptors include types A trkA B trkB and C trkC .

NGF is a specific ligand for the trkA receptor and signals through trkA. It also signals through the low affinity p75 receptors. NGF is a secreted protein that helps to develop and maintain the sympathetic nervous system affecting sensory pain and sympathetic targets. It is required for survival of small peptide expressing neurons that express the trkA receptor and that project into the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn i.e. putative nociceptive neurons .

BDNF signals through trkB in addition to the low affinity p75 receptors. It is Ca dependent and may control synaptic transmission and long term synaptic plasticity affecting sensory and motor targets. It enhances survival and differentiation of several classes of neurons in vitro including neural crest and placode derived sensory neurons dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra basal forebrain cholinergic neurons hippocampal neurons and retinal ganglial cells. BDNF is expressed within peripheral ganglia and is not restricted to neuronal target fields so that it may have paracrine or autocrine actions on neurons as well as non neuronal cells.

Neurotrophin 3 NT 3 is part of the family of neurotrophic factors that control survival and differentiation of mammalian neurons. NT 3 is closely related to NGF and BDNF. The mature NT 3 peptide is identical in all mammals examined including human pig rat and mouse. NT 3 preferentially signals through trkC over trkA and trkB receptors and also utilizes the low affinity p75 receptors. It functions at the neuromuscular junction affecting large sensory and motor targets and regulating neurotransmitter release at neuromuscular synapses. It may be involved in maintenance of the adult nervous system and affect development of neurons in the embryo when it is expressed in human placenta.

Neurotrophin 4 NT 4 synonymous with NT 5 belongs to the NGF family and is a survival factor for peripheral sensory sympathetic neurons. NT 4 levels are highest in the prostate with lower levels in thymus placenta and skeletal muscle. NT 4 is also expressed in embryonic and adult tissues. It signals through trkB in addition to low affinity p75 receptors affecting sympathetic sensory and motor targets. Neurotrophin 6 has also been reported.

Ciliary neurotrophic factor CNTF is expressed in glial cells within the central and peripheral nervous systems. It stimulates gene expression cell survival or differentiation in a variety of neuronal cell types such as sensory sympathetic ciliary and motor neurons. CNTF itself lacks a classical signal peptide sequence of a secreted protein but is thought to convey its cytoprotective effects after release from adult glial cells by some mechanism induced by injury. In addition to its neuronal actions CNTF also acts on non neuronal cells such as glia hepatocytes skeletal muscle embryonic stem cells and bone marrow stromal cells.

Glial cell derived neurotrophic factor GDNF is a 20 kD glycosylated polypeptide that exists as a homodimer. It stimulates the growth of dopaminergic neurons and autonomic motor neurons.

Neuropoietic factors may be used in addition to or in place of neurotrophic factors. Neuropoietic factors regulate the properties of cells both in the peripheral and central nervous systems and both during development and in the mature nervous system. They regulate neuronal phenotype neurotransmitter and differentiation of neuronal precursor cells in peripheral and spinal cord neurons. They also regulate cell survival and development of astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. Neuropoietic factors are also trauma factors in rescuing sensory and motor neurons from axotomy induced cell death. They show temporal and spatial specific expression patterns and have specific roles in neural development and repair.

Neuropoietic factors include some cytokines different from cytokines associated with apoptosis induced neurodegenerative processes and hematopoietic factors that fulfill criteria for demonstrating a role in neuronal differentiation and survival. They include leukemia inhibitory factor LIF oncostatin M growth promoting activity and cardiotrophin 1. All of these factors activate a subfamily of class I cytokine receptors the interleukin 6 receptor family.

Any of the above described neurotrophins and or neuropoietic factors may be used in the invention. In one embodiment the total concentration of neurotrophins and or neuropoietic factors ranges from about 1 pM to about 100 pM. In another embodiment the total concentration of neurotrophins and or neuropoietic factors ranges from about 0.01 nM to about 1 M. In another embodiment the total concentration of neurotrophins and or neuropoietic factors is below 1 nM. The neurotrophin s and or neuropoietic factor s may be used singly or in combination.

The addition of a macrolide macrolide analog neurotrophin and or a neuropoietic factor alone or in combination in an ocular formulation provides beneficial results in enhancing corneal sensation nerve regeneration protection and or re enervation. In embodiments where a macrolide is present the composition also reduces post ocular surgical scarring provides anti inflammatory effects and may provide anti infective properties. It will be appreciated that various embodiments are contemplated. As one example a macrolide or macrolide analog with or without neurostimulatory activity may be used without a neurotrophin or neuropoietic factor. As another example a neurotrophin or neuropoietic factor or any other neuro stimulatory factor or factors may be used alone. As another example other agents may be included in the composition. Examples of these agents include but are not limited to steroids non steroidal anti inflammatory agents NSAIDS antibiotics antioxidants anti proliferative anti cell migration and or anti angiogenic agents.

Steroids for ocular administration include but are not limited to triamcinolone Aristocort Kenalog betamethasone Celestone budesonide cortisone dexamethasone Decadron LA Decadron phosphate Maxidex and Tobradex Alcon hydrocortisone methylprednisolone Depo Medrol Solu Medrol prednisolone prednisolone acetate e.g. Pred Forte Allergan Econopred and Econopred Plus Alcon AK Tate Akorn Pred Mild Allergan prednisone sodium phosphate Inflamase Mild and Inflamase Forte Ciba Metreton Schering AK Pred Akorn fluorometholone fluorometholone acetate Flarex Alcon Eflone fluorometholone alcohol FML and FML Mild Allergan FluorOP rimexolone Vexol Alcon medrysone alcohol HMS Allergan lotoprednol etabonate Lotemax and Alrex Bausch Lomb 11 desoxcortisol and anacortave acetate Alcon .

Antibiotics include but are not limited to doxycycline 4 dimethylamino 1 4 4a 5 5a 6 11 12a octahydro 3 5 10 12 12a pentahydroxy 6 methyl 1 11 dioxo 2 naphthacenecarboxamide monohydrate CHNO.HO aminoglycosides e.g. streptomycin amikacin gentamicin tobramycin cephalosporins e.g. beta lactams including penicillin tetracyclines acyclorvir amantadine polymyxin B amphtotericin B amoxicillin ampicillin atovaquone azithromycin azithromycin bacitracin cefazolin cefepime cefotaxime cefotetan cefpodoxime ceftazidime ceftizoxime ceftriaxone cefuroxime cephalexin chloramphenicol clotimazole ciprofloxacin clarithromycin clindamycin dapsone dicloxacillin erythromycin fluconazole foscarnet ganciclovir gatifloxacin griseofulvin isoniazid itraconazole ketoconazole metronidazole nafcillin neomycin nitrofurantoin nystatin pentamidine rifampin rifamycin valacyclovir vancomycin etc.

Anti proliferative agents include but are not limited to carboplatin 5 fluorouracil 5 FU thiotepa etoposide VP 16 doxorubicin ifosphophamide cyclophosphamide etc.

Anti prostaglandins include but are not limited to indomethacin ketorolac tromethamine 0.5 5 benzoyl 2 3 dihydro 1H pyrrolizine 1 carboxylic acid compound with 2 amino 2 hydroxymethyl 1 3 propanediol 1 1 ACULAR Allegan Irvine Calif. OCUFEN flurbiprofen sodium 0.03 meclofenamate flurbiprofen and compounds in the pyrrolo pyrrole group of non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs.

A matrix metalloproteinase inhibitor may be added. These include but are not limited to doxycycline TIMP 1 TIMP 2 TIMP 3 TIMP 4 MMP1 MMP2 MMP3 Batimastat or marimastat. Eight matrix metalloproteinase inhibitors have been identified in the cornea namely collagenases I and III MMP 1 and MMP 13 gelatinases A and B MMP 2 and MMP 9 stromelysin MMP 3 matrilysin MMP 7 and membrane type MMP MMP 14 .

Anti angiogenesis agents include but are not limited to antibodies to vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF such as bevacizumab AVASTIN and rhuFAb V2 ranibizumab Genentech and other anti VEGF compounds MACUGEN pegaptanim sodium anti VEGF aptamer or EYE001 Eyetech Pharmaceuticals pigment epithelium derived factor s PEDF CELEBREX VIOXX interferon alpha interleukin 12 IL 12 thalidomide and derivatives such as REVIMID CC 5013 Celgene Corporation squalamine endostatin angiostatin the ribozyme inhibitor ANGIOZYME Sirna Therapeutics multifunctional antiangiogenic agents such as NEOVASTAT AE 941 Aeterna Laboratories Quebec City Canada etc. as known to one skilled in the art.

Other agents may also be added such as NSAIDS vitamins minerals cytokines growth factors etc. Examples of the above include but are not limited to colchicine naproxen sodium ANAPROX and ANAPROX DS Roche flurbiprofen ANSAID Pharmacia Pfizer diclofenac sodium and misoprostil ARTHROTEC Searle Monsanto valdecoxib BEXTRA Pfizer diclofenac potassium CATAFLAM Novartis celecoxib CELEBREX Searle Monsanto sulindac CLINORIL Merck oxaprozin DAYPRO Pharmacia Pfizer salsalate DISALCID 3M salicylate DOLOBID Merck naproxen sodium EC NAPROSYN Roche piroxicam FELDENE Pfizer indomethacin INDOCIN Merck etodolac LODINE Wyeth meloxicam MOBIC Boehringer Ingelheim ibuprofen MOTRIN Pharmacia Pfizer naproxen NAPRELAN Elan naproxen NAPROSYN Roche ketoprofen ORUDIS ORUVAIL Wyeth nabumetone RELAFEN SmithKline tolmetin sodium TOLECTIN McNeil choline magnesium trisalicylate TRILISATE Purdue Fredrick rofecoxib VIOXX Merck vitamins A B thiamine B pyridoxine B cobalamine C ascorbic acid D D ergocalciferol D cholcalciferol E K phytonadione K phytylmenaquinone K multiprenylmenaquinone carotenoids such as lutein and zeaxanthin macrominerals and trace minerals including but not limited to calcium magnesium iron iodine zinc copper chromium selenium manganese molybdenum fluoride boron etc. Commercially available supplements are also included such as high potency zinc commercially available as OCUVITE PRESERVISION Bausch Lomb Rochester N.Y. or high potency antioxidants zinc lutein zeaxanthin commercially available as ICAPS Dietary Supplement Alcon Fort Worth Tex. .

It will be appreciated that the above agents include pharmaceutically acceptable salts and derivatives e.g. sodium potassium bicarbonate sulfate etc. and are representative but not exclusive. The duration over which any of the formulation will dwell in the ocular environment will depend on factors that include but are not limited to compound s pharmacological properties concentrations and or bioavailability disease mode of administration desired longevity of therapy etc. Formulations of embodiment may have dwell times of hours days weeks months or years.

In one example rabbits are administered neurostimulatory or neuroprotective macrolides macrolide analogs neurotrophins and or neuropoietic factors treated or vehicle alone control . To generate damage to retinal sensory or ganglion cells anesthetized rabbits may be subjected to a sever crush injury of the optic nerve or may be treated to induce increased intraocular pressure or may be treated to induce retinal ischemic reperfusion injury or may be subject to other methods known to one skilled in the art.

As an example of one embodiment after excising the conjunctiva and exposing the optic nerve with the aid of a binocular operating microscope with care not to interfere with the blood supply the nerve can be mechanically crushed for a defined period using forceps or other instruments as described in Schori et al. PNAS 98 3398 2001 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As an example of another embodiment rabbits may be treated to result in intraocular pressure greater than 17 mm Hg. This may be done by negative pressure applied to a corneoscleral ring fixed to the sclera and connected to a vacuum source as known to one skilled in the art. This may also be done by positive pressure applied through a cannula connected to the interior chamber. This may also be done by blocking aqueous outflow using 80 120 applications of blue green argon laser as described in Bakalash et al. Investigative Ophthalmology Visual Science 44 3374 2003 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

As an example of another embodiment the central and choroidal arteries may be surgically closed. Deprivation of blood flow to the retina would result in ischemia due to lack of oxygen and nutrients while reperfusion would result in free radical injury this type of ischemia reperfusion injury is known to one skilled in the art.

One or a combination of the macrolides macrolide analogues neurotrophins and neuropoietic factors in different combinations of agent dose route of administration intervals etc. as described herein may be used and administered as previously described.

Assessment of retinal damage in control and treated animals may be by applying dextran tetramethylrhodamine a hydrophilic neurotracer Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. into the intraorbital portion of the optic nerve with only functional axons capable of dye uptake. Rabbits are sacrificed twenty four hours after dye administration retinas excised wholemounted and preserved in 4 paraformaldehyde. Retinal ganglial cells are counted under 800 magnification using a fluorescence microscope. Four fields from each retina are counted with the same diameter and located the same distance from the optic disc. Eyes from untreated rabbits are used as controls.

Other dyes or markers for viable ganglion cells can be introduced and the number of cells can be counted in treated groups versus control groups. In addition factors other than dye uptake can be used as an indicator of neuroprotection and or neurostimulation. These factors include retinal ganglial and or sensory cell morphology from treated versus control groups assays of cellular function conductivity etc. Conversely apoptosis may be assayed in retinal ganglial and or sensory cells from treated versus control groups. For example Annexin V binding is known by one skilled in the art as an indirect indicator of apoptosis and binding can be assayed in treated versus control cells. A clonagenic assay is known by one skilled in the art as a direct indicator of apoptosis and can be performed with the results compared from both treated and control cells.

It will be appreciated that the agents include pharmaceutically acceptable salts and derivatives thereof e.g. sodium potassium bicarbonate sulfate etc . It will also be appreciated that the above lists are representative only and are not exclusive. The indications effective doses formulations including buffers salts and other excipients contraindications vendors etc. of each of the above are known to one skilled in the art.

In one embodiment the composition is formulated for topical application. In another embodiment the composition is formulated for intraocular application. In another embodiment the composition is formulated for subconjunctival or intravitreal application. In another embodiment the composition is in a delayed or extend release formulation. In another embodiment the composition is formulated on or in an intraocular lens e.g. implanted lens contact lens . In another embodiment the composition is formulated on or in an implanted ocular device. None of these formulations result in significant systemic absorption so that there are no detrimental effects that may result with systemically administered macrolides and or neurostimulatory factor s .

The formulation may be a slow extended or time release formulation a carrier formulation such as microspheres microcapsules liposomes etc. as known to one skilled in the art. Any of the above mentioned delayed release delivery systems may be administered topically intraocularly subconjunctivally or by implant to result in sustained release of the agent over a period of time. The formulation may be in the form of a vehicle such as a micro or macro capsule or matrix of biocompatible polymers such as polycaprolactone polyglycolic acid polylactic acid polyanhydrides polylactide co glycolides polyamino acids polyethylene oxide acrylic terminated polyethylene oxide polyamides polyethylenes polyacrylonitriles polyphosphazenes poly ortho esters sucrose acetate isobutyrate SAIB and other polymers such as those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 667 371 6 613 355 6 596 296 6 413 536 5 968 543 4 079 038 4 093 709 4 131 648 4 138 344 4 180 646 4 304 767 4 946 931 each of which is expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety or lipids that may be formulated as microspheres or liposomes. A microscopic or macroscopic formulation may be administered topically or through a needle or may be implanted. Delayed or extended release properties may be provided through various formulations of the vehicle coated or uncoated microsphere coated or uncoated capsule lipid or polymer components unilamellar or multilamellar structure and combinations of the above etc. . The formulation and loading of microspheres microcapsules liposomes etc. and their ocular implantation are standard techniques known by one skilled in the art for example the use a ganciclovir sustained release implant to treat cytomegalovirus retinitis disclosed in Vitreoretinal Surgical Techniques Peyman et al. Eds. Martin Dunitz London 2001 chapter 45 Handbook of Pharmaceutical Controlled Release Technology Wise Ed. Marcel Dekker New York 2000 the relevant sections of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety. For example a sustained release intraocular implant may be inserted through the pars plana for implantation in the vitreous cavity. An intraocular injection may be into the vitreous intravitreal or under the conjunctiva subconjunctival or behind the eye retrobulbar or under the Capsule of Tenon sub Tenon and may be in a depot form. The composition may be administered via a contact lens applied to the exterior surface of an eye with the composition incorporated into the lens material e.g. at manufacture or contained in a lens solution . The composition may be administered via an intraocular lens IOL that is implanted in the eye. Implantable lenses include any IOL used to replace a patient s diseased lens following cataract surgery including but not limited to those manufactured by Bausch and Lomb Rochester N.Y. Alcon Fort Worth Tex. Allergan Irvine Calif. and Advanced Medical Optics Santa Ana Calif. . When the lens is implanted within the lens capsule the composition provides the desired effect to the eye. Concentrations suitable for implants lenses and other types and by contact lens administration may vary as will be appreciated by one skilled in the art. For example an implant may be loaded with a high amount of agent but formulated or regulated so that a required concentration within the above described ranges is sustainedly released e.g. slow release formulation .

In various embodiments the composition is administered up to four times a day. In embodiments where the composition is administered after surgery administration may commence following surgery on the same day or the day after surgery or a few days after surgery or any time after surgery. The composition may be self administered or administered by another for example if visual acuity is poor or if the patient is uncomfortable with self administration. The patient is periodically evaluated e.g. daily every other day etc. using assessment methods known to one skilled in the art. In embodiments where the composition is used to assess corneal sensation these include assessment of corneal clarity corneal sensation e.g. using a Cochet Bonnet filament type aesthesiometer corneal enervation etc. In embodiments where the composition is used to enhance ocular neuroprotection and or neurostimulation these may include one or more of the following assessments retinal ganglial cell viability quantitation of ocular glutamate levels visual field and visual acuity determinations assessment of visual evoked potential VEP to evaluate visual neural pathways via electrode measurement of brain electrical activity while watching a moving pattern on a video monitor electroretinogram ERG to evaluate the ocular electrical responses to a flash of light using an electrode placed on the surface of the eye e.g. cornea electrooculargram EOG critical flicker fusion CFF test that measures a sensitivity threshold to provide information about the temporal responsiveness of visual pathways etc. These assessments are known to one skilled in the art.

LASIK surgery was performed on each eye of twenty two patients. Each patient was enrolled in a single center clinical trial.

In this surgery corneal nerves in the hinge region remained unaffected i.e. they remained both present and intact . Corneal nerves in the remainder of the flap however were mechanically dissected during surgery to mobilize the flap but remained structurally present i.e. they remained present but not intact .

It is known that after this type of surgery nerves that have been severed gradually and over the course of months reenervate the cornea. Corneal sensation is thus gradually restored at a slow rate during normal post surgical recovery.

The rate of corneal sensation restoration by a commercially available 0.05 cyclosporine emulsion applied to an eye after LASIK surgery was assessed. Twenty two patients underwent LASIK surgery using a combined Excimer laser with a lamellar corneal flap technique as known to one skilled the art and as discussed in e.g. Linna et al. Exp. Eye Res. 1998 66 755 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein. One eye was randomly assigned as a study eye and the other eye was the control eye. The surgeon was instructed to ensure that the hinge position of the LASIK flap was the same for both eyes of the patient because this affected corneal sensation in that the loss of corneal sensation was known to be greater in eyes with a superior hinge flap than in eyes with a nasal hinge flap.

At the completion of the LASIK surgery one drop of cyclosporine 0.05 ophthalmic emulsion was topically applied to one eye study eye of the patient. After at least ten minutes one drop of each of prednisolone acetate ECONOPRED Alcon Ft. Worth Tex. and moxifloxacin VIGAMOX . Alcon were topically applied to the same study eye. One drop of each of prednisolone acetate and moxifloxacin were topically applied to the control eye of the same patient. Cyclosporine was not applied to the control eye.

Patients were instructed to administer the following medicaments to the study eye starting on the day of surgery one drop of cyclosporine 0.05 at about twelve hour intervals and one drop of each of prednisolone acetate and moxifloxacin four times a day waiting at least ten minutes after cyclosporine administration. Patients were instructed to administer the following medicaments to the control eye starting on the day of surgery one drop of each of prednisolone acetate and moxifloxacin four times a day 

The cyclosporine administration regimen to the study eye continued until the three month post surgical evaluation. The prednisolone acetate and moxifloxacin regimen administration to the study eye continued until a one week post surgical evaluation then changed to twice a day administration for two days then once a day for two days. An ocular lubricant SYSTANE Alcon was administered to both study and control eyes once on the day of surgery and thereafter as needed.

Patients were evaluated for corneal sensitivity pre surgery and immediately post surgery then at one and three months post surgery. Nineteen patients thirty eight eyes were evaluated at the three month examination the remaining patients did not report. Post surgical corneal sensitivity recovery of the 19 study eyes and 19 control eyes was compared.

Corneal sensitivity was measured using the Cochet Bonnet esthesiometer in accord with the manufacturer s instructions. The instrument is a nylon filament 60.0 mm long and 0.12 mm diameter. The force exerted by the filament when it touches the cornea is inversely proportional to its length. The same experienced examiner made all measurements whenever possible.

Measurements were obtained at nine different areas of the cornea as diagrammed in also showing location of the surgically created corneal flap where the continuous line shows the hinge of the flap that is attached to the rest of the cornea and the dashed line shows the extent of the flap. As shown in corneal sensitivity measurements were taken at the four quadrants of untreated cornea areas 1 2 8 and 9 the four peripheral quadrants of the flap areas 3 4 6 and 7 and the center of the flap area 5 .

For post surgical examination the examiner was unaware of which patient eye was the study eye and which eye was the control eye. The patient in a supine position looking straight ahead was asked to indicate to the examiner when the stimulus was felt positive response . The filament was moved toward the cornea smoothly at a perpendicular angle guided by its corneal reflex. Contact was detected by a slight bending in the filament. If the patient did not respond to the first contact the length of the filament was decreased by 5.0 mm and the procedure was repeated until the patient reported feeling corneal contact. The longest filament length at which a minimum of three stimulus applications produced a positive response from the patient was recorded. This was considered the corneal touch threshold.

Data were statistically evaluated using the Wilcoxon Sum Rank Test. Statistical significance of differences in corneal sensitivity was determined by comparing the two eyes of each patient one study eye and one control eye in each patient using statistical significance at p 0.05.

Data for each of the nine areas of the eye in which corneal sensitivity was assessed in each of the 19 control and 19 study eyes are shown in . shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 1 one of the four quadrants of untreated cornea for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.272. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 2 a second of the four quadrants of untreated cornea for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.685. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 3 one of the four peripheral quadrants for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.049. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 4 a second of the four peripheral quadrants for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.020. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 5 center of the flap for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.009. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 6 a third of the four peripheral quadrants for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.013. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 7 the fourth of the four peripheral quadrants for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.013. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 8 a third of the four quadrants of untreated cornea for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.175. shows pre and post LASIK surgery corneal sensitivity data from area 9 the fourth of the four quadrants of untreated cornea for each study and control eye at three months post LASIK surgery p 0.774.

Corneal sensitivity at each of the four peripheral quadrants of untreated cornea shown in over three months post surgery was as follows area 1 p 0.272 area 2 p 0.685 area 8 p 0.175 and area 9 p 0.774. These data indicated that all evaluated sites peripheral to outside of the flap area areas 1 2 8 and 9 in the study eyes had no significant difference in corneal sensitivity p 0.05 compared to the control eyes at all time points. Corneal sensitivity at each of the four peripheral quadrants shown in over three months post surgery was as follows area 3 p 0.049 area 4 p 0.020 area 6 p 0.013 and area 7 p 0.013. These data indicated that all evaluated sites within the flap area areas 3 4 6 and 7 had statistically significant enhanced corneal sensitivity p

Patients were also evaluated by slit lamp examination. The eyelid margin conjunctiva cornea and anterior segment were thoroughly examined. For each examination at all time points pre surgery and post surgery one day one week one month and three months there were no statistically significant differences between the study and control eyes. Patient subjective responses pre surgery and post surgery one week one month and three months to a questionnaire were evaluated. For each eye patients were asked to rate never rarely sometimes often all of the time sensation dry sticky gritty sore watery burning foreign body vision blurred appearance red crusting or discharge on lashes and sensitivity to light and wind air conditioning. At all time points there were no statistically significant differences between the study and control eyes with the exception of foreign body sensation . This was more noticeable in the study eye one week post surgery p 0.047 although at one and three months post surgery there was no significant difference between the study and control eyes p 0.102 and p 0.317 respectively .

These data demonstrated efficacy of topically applied cyclosporine 0.05 ophthalmic solution in significantly improved corneal sensitivity within three months post LASIK. This provided strong evidence that cyclosporine 0.05 ophthalmic solution promoted corneal nerve recovery.

Photorefractive keratectomy PRK surgery is performed on at least one eye of a patient. In PRK the corneal surface is reshaped using an Excimer laser for surface ablation and removal of the epithelium and stroma it can also be performed under an epithelial flap. The protective superficial layers of the cornea heal post operatively. Patients who have undergone PRK will typically require more time than patients who have undergone LASIK to achieve their best vision and restore corneal sensitivity. Outcomes of PRK and LASIK are comparable at the sixth postsurgical month. There may be a greater risk of scarring haze and unpredictable healing of the cornea with PRK. The risk of infection is also slightly higher with PRK than with LASIK although infections following either procedure are rare.

After surgery 0.05 cyclosporine is provided to the affected eye. Dosing intervals assessment techniques etc. are the same as in Example 1. Enhanced recovery rate of corneal sensitivity is provided.

Laser thermal keratoplasty LTK is performed on at least one eye of a patient. Energy from a holmium YAG laser is applied in a predetermined pattern to shrink collagen fibers and thus steepen the cornea. After the procedure 0.05 cyclosporine is provided to the affected eye. Dosing intervals assessment techniques etc. are the same as in Example 1. Enhanced recovery rate of corneal sensitivity is provided.

Conductive keratoplasty CK is performed on at least one eye of a patient. Low level radiofrequency RF energy is administered through a fine probe. Using the probe RF energy is applied to specific sites in a pre set marked circular pattern e.g. using a dye on the outer cornea to shrink or ablate small areas of corneal tissue. The circular shrinkage pattern creates a constrictive band thus increasing the overall curvature of the cornea.

After the procedure 0.05 cyclosporine is provided to the affected eye. Dosing intervals assessment techniques etc. are the same as in Example 1. Enhanced recovery rate of corneal sensitivity is provided.

Laser assisted in situ epithelial keratomileusis LASEK is performed on at least one eye of a patient. After surgery 0.05 cyclosporine is provided to the affected eye. Dosing intervals assessment techniques etc. are the same as in Example 1. Enhanced recovery rate of corneal sensitivity is provided. Other variations or embodiments of the invention will also be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the above description. As one example the invention may be used to facilitate growth of transplanted neuronal cells either mature or immature and or stem cells in the eye or brain. As another example other ocular routes of administration and injection sites and forms are also contemplated. As another example the invention may be used in patients who have experienced ocular trauma ischemia inflammation etc. Thus the forgoing embodiments are not to be construed as limiting the scope of this invention.

