---

title: Document management systems, apparatuses and methods configured to provide user interface customized for specific user
abstract: Apparatuses, systems and methods are provided for accessing a document management application through a network, wherein user interface information comprising one or more of a plurality of user interfaces customized for a specific user is maintained, and upon successful login of the specific user, said one or more of the plurality of user interfaces are provided for display to the specific user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047282&OS=09047282&RS=09047282
owner: RICOH COMPANY, LTD.
number: 09047282
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100311
---
This disclosure relates to systems apparatuses and methodologies for managing and exchanging documents and files.

In the current information age information technology IT tools for managing files and data are extensively used in enterprises and other organizations in order to store and transfer electronic documents and data over a network.

A document management system for example DocumentMall can provide users with remote access that is through a network to software applications and related services that would otherwise have to be installed on the user s local computer. For example such a document management system may be configured to store documents as electronic files in a network connected and secure document storage device in order to protect the documents from theft or loss and to avoid unnecessarily occupying storage space local to the user computer or local computing environment while making such files available on demand. The documents may include voluminous and or sensitive material and may be configured to provide searchable databases of all forms of legal medical financial educational scientific and marketing documents for individuals and or companies via a network.

Typically when a conventional document management system receives user input of a request to retrieve a specific document from document storage of the document management system the document management system transmits an instruction to the document storage based on the user input and receives data for the requested document from the document storage in response to the instruction. The document management system then transmits the data returned from the document storage part to the user. depicts an example of such a system where client terminals through may upload and download documents to from a document storage part of the document management system .

There is a drawback however in that a user interface of such a conventional document management system is often static and inflexible with the same set of rigid options presented to all users. This is despite the fact that certain groups of users may be interested in consistently accessing a specific group of services or documents through the document management system.

Further a drawback arises when there is a need or desire to change some aspect of the operation of the document management system or the user interface of the document management system. In such a case the document management system may need to be taken offline in order to effect the necessary changes thereby causing great inconvenience to those who wish to but cannot use the document management system while the system is offline.

There exists a need for an improved document management system which is not as difficult and time consuming to use.

This disclosure provides tools in the form of systems apparatuses methodologies computer program products etc. for managing and accessing documents or files.

In an aspect of this disclosure the tools can make available any of plural user interfaces and for each of plural registered users user access information is maintained and for each of the registered users such user access information includes user interface information that identifies one or more of the plural user interfaces that would be suitable for the registered user. Such user interface information is preferably retrieved upon login by the user for example user information from user login is utilized to retrieve the user interface information registered for the specific user and an appropriate user interface that is suitable to the user is presented to the user without requiring the user to select the user interface he or she wishes to use.

In another aspect of this disclosure one or more user interfaces provided for display on a client terminal communicate when user input is received through the one or more of the user interfaces with an application program interface of a document management application and send a command corresponding to the user input and acceptable to the document management application to the document management application to access one or more corresponding application functionalities of the document management application corresponding to the user input.

In another aspect of this disclosure at least one of document and other information is received from an application program interface of a document management application in response to a command transmitted from an application interface part to the document management application and the document or other information is provided for access by a specific user.

In another aspect of this disclosure a user interface part is distinct from a document management application and the user interface part is reconfigurable without taking the document management application offline.

In another aspect of this disclosure user access information includes business relevancy information indicating a specific business relevancy field pertinent to a registered user and one or more user interfaces provided for display on a client terminal display information corresponding to the specific business relevancy field pertinent to the specific user. Further the user interface may include user interface activators to access application functionalities corresponding to a specific business relevancy field pertinent to the specific user.

In describing preferred embodiments illustrated in the drawings specific terminology is employed for the sake of clarity. However the disclosure of this patent specification is not intended to be limited to the specific terminology so selected and it is to be understood that each specific element includes all technical equivalents that operate in a similar manner. In addition a detailed description of known functions and configurations have been omitted when it may obscure the subject matter of the present invention.

Referring now to the drawings wherein like reference numerals designate identical or corresponding parts throughout the several views shows schematically a system for managing and exchanging documents and files according to an exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

System includes a plurality of client terminals through a document management apparatus and a document access apparatus or also referenced herein as application user interface apparatus all of which are interconnected by a network .

The plurality of client terminals through may be substantially similar to those depicted in . In particular the client terminals through are configured with software allowing the client terminals to communicate through the network with at least the document access apparatus and preferably also the document management apparatus . In particular the client terminals through may transmit data to and receive data from the document access apparatus .

The document management apparatus may be configured to execute a document management application having a plurality of application functionalities the plurality of application functionalities including a document registration function to register a specified document in a document database and a search function to search the document database based on specified terms. The document management apparatus may be also referenced herein as document management application .

The user information maintenance part is configured to maintain user access information for a plurality of registered users. depicts an example of user access information and it is discussed in greater detail infra. The user access information for each registered user may include user interface information registering one or more of a plurality of user interfaces for each registered user.

The term user interface is used to refer to the type of interface that is provided for display to a user to allow the user to access the application functionalities of the document management apparatus . Examples of user interfaces are depicted in which are discussed in greater detail infra and may include a medical user interface legal user interface scientific user interface financial user interface accounting user interface general user interface custom user interface and so on. Note that one or more of the user interfaces may be provided as web services through the network to the client terminal.

The user interface part is configured to receive user information from a specific user of a client terminal when that user logs into the document access apparatus . The user information may be any information transmitted by a user to the document access apparatus for the purposes of login and authentication such as a username and password. User information is not limited to usernames and passwords but may also include information such as email addresses screen names telephone numbers facsimile numbers and biometric information fingerprints palm prints voice or speech retinas or irises facial expressions or features signature etc. .

The user interface part is also configured to retrieve the user interface information registered for the specific user. With reference to the user interface part refers to the user access information for the specific user maintained by the user information maintenance part and determines the user interface information registered for the specific user. In this way the user interface information registered for the specific user is retrieved from the user access information maintained by the user information maintenance part

Further the user interface part is also configured to determine the user interface s registered for the specific user based on the retrieved user interface information. The user interface part provides the user interface s registered for the specific user for display on a client terminal.

Referring to the user access information of if the user interface part receives user information indicating the username John.Smith then the user interface part refers to the user access information for the username John.Smith and retrieves the respective user interface information for the username John.Smith which in this case identifies the medical user interface. Thereafter the user interface part provides the respective user interface i.e. the medical user interface for display on a client terminal for the registered user John Smith to view.

Thus according to this exemplary embodiment of the present invention there is provided the tools for the efficient exchange and management of documents and files. Whereas conventional techniques typically only provide a single interface for all users of a document management apparatus the system of the present application automatically determines a user interface most appropriate for a logged in user and provides the user interface for display to the user. Hence the operational convenience to users of the present invention is greatly increased.

For example medical professionals may wish to upload and access documents such as patient records patient billing medical procedure manuals test results and so forth. On the other hand legal professionals may wish to access information such as memorandums briefs case law client records client billing and so forth. Accordingly this disclosure allows a different user interface such as a medical user interface or a legal user interface to be made available for each particular user. Further the user interface for each user can change over time without affecting the operation of the document management apparatus with respect to other users. Each user interface may be one of a plurality of pre defined types may be modifiable based on a general template or may be completely customized.

The document access apparatus may be embodied as a server that is separated and physically distinct from the document management apparatus . In this way the document access apparatus may correspond to a first server and the document management apparatus may correspond to a second server separate and distinct from the first server. Hence while conventional document management systems typically have an integrated user interface such that any modification of the user interface would require taking the document management system offline the document access apparatus of this disclosure is configured for modification without taking the document management apparatus offline.

In a flow chart is shown illustrating an example of a workflow on a document access apparatus side such as the document access apparatus in .

Firstly in S the document access apparatus maintains user access information for a plurality of registered users. The user access information for each registered user may include user interface information registering one or more of a plurality of user interfaces for the registered user. depicts an example of user access information as discussed earlier.

Then in S the document access apparatus provides a login interface through a network to a client terminal for user login. The document access apparatus also receives user information when a specific client user logs into the document access apparatus. User information may include information such as usernames email addresses passwords screen names telephone numbers facsimile numbers and biometric information fingerprints palm prints voice or speech retinas or irises facial expressions or features signature etc. .

Thereafter the document access apparatus attempts to authenticate the user based on the received user information and determines whether the user has been properly authenticated S . If the user has been properly authenticated S yes than processing proceeds to S. If the user has not been properly authenticated S No then the document access apparatus waits for another attempt by a user to login.

In S the document access apparatus analyzes the user information and determines the corresponding user interface for the user based on the user information received in S and the maintained user access information. Specifically the document access apparatus utilizes the user information to retrieve the user interface information registered in the user access information for the specific user. The document access apparatus then provides the corresponding user interface registered for the specific user for display on a client terminal.

As discussed earlier shows an example of user access information for each one of a plurality of registered users such as users of client terminals through . The user access information includes a plurality of usernames representing the users of the plurality of client terminals and user interface information identifying user interfaces corresponding to the respective usernames.

For example for the username John.Smith the corresponding user interface is the medical user interface and for the username James.Sample the corresponding user interface is the legal user interface. Other available user interfaces may include a scientific user interface a financial user interface an accounting user interface a marketing user interface and so forth. Also note that various modifications and subtypes are available for each of these broad user interfaces. For example while there is a legal user interface it is also possible to have a legal patent user interface as shown in as well as legal real estate user interface legal labor user interface legal litigation user interface etc. . . . . Further there may be a general or default user interface with basic functionality and a custom or personalized user interface.

It is possible for more than one user interface to correspond to a user. For example two or more user interfaces may be registered for a user e.g. in the case of Jeffrey Oscar a scientific user interface and a financial user interface .

As shown in the user access information may also include business relevancy information indicating a specific business relevancy field pertinent to the registered user and the user interfaces may display information corresponding to the specific business relevancy field pertinent to the specific user.

The user access information contained within the user access information table is not limited to that shown in which merely presents an example. In particular while the user access information shown includes usernames business relevancy information and user interface information the user access information can instead or in addition store various other information including information that may be used to identify a user of a client terminal that may be in communication with a document management apparatus. For example the user access information can include a plurality of names and or screen names email addresses telephone numbers facsimile numbers etc. The user access information may include biometric information such as fingerprints palm prints voice or speech retinas or irises facial expressions or features signature etc .

Further depicts some of the customizable user interface options or user interface activators that are presented when a user clicks on the Download Document button. The activators may be unique to the medical user interface and may include options for downloading patient medical records patient billing records pathology test results medical reference texts on call duty roster and so forth. It should be understood that such options are merely exemplary and these options may be customized according to this disclosure.

Thus the user interfaces provided for display on the client terminal include one or more user interface activators configured to transmit when the activator is selected or activated by the user a corresponding command to the document management apparatus to access one or more corresponding application functionalities of the document management apparatus.

Many of the options in the legal user interface are similar to those in the medical user interface including User Profile Edit Current User Interface Switch User Interface Create New User Interface Logout Upload Document Browse Documents and Download Document.

Further depicts some of the customizable user interface activators that are presented when a user clicks on the Browse Documents button. The user interface activators may be unique to the legal user interface and include options for downloading client records billing records legal case law calendar entries discovery material petitions and briefs and sample affidavits. It should be understood that such options are merely exemplary and these options may be customized according to this disclosure. Further even the layout background button sizes etc. . . . differ between user interfaces and can be customizable.

Similarly depicts another example of a user interface screen provided when a user clicks a search button such as the search button shown in . The user interface allows the user to search for documents by key terms such as document name and also control the type of the search i.e. a document type search involves a search for only documents a folder type search involves a search for only folders etc. .

Turning now to there is shown schematically a system for providing document management services to a client terminal over a network according to another exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

System includes a plurality of client terminals through a document management apparatus and a document access apparatus .

The document management apparatus may execute a document management application substantially similar to a document management application operating on the document management apparatus of .

The application program interface is configured to specify a format of communication with the document management apparatus .

Hence the application program interface is similar to the application programming interfaces APIs known in the art which are interfaces often implemented in software that specify the commands and instructions that an application or device may be configured to accept. In this way the application program interface of the document management apparatus may include specifications for routines and protocols that are to be used when communicating with the document management apparatus or requesting the application functionalities of the document management apparatus such as uploading accessing and downloading documents .

The user information maintenance part of the document access apparatus is configured to maintain user access information for a plurality of registered users.

The user interface part is configured to provide a login interface through the network to one of the client terminals receive user information from login of a specific user of the client terminal utilize the user information to retrieve the user interface information registered for the specific user and provide the user interfaces registered for the specific user for display on the client terminal.

In particular the user interface part refers to the user access information for the specific user maintained by the user information maintenance part and determines the user interface information registered for the specific user. In this way the user interface information registered for the specific user is retrieved from the user access information maintained by the user information maintenance part

The document access apparatus is further configured to communicate when user input is received through the one or more of the user interfaces with the application program interface of the document management apparatus receive information from the application program interface specifying the format of communication with the document management application and send a command corresponding to the user input and in the format specified by the application program interface to the document management application to access one or more corresponding application functionalities of the document management application.

The document access apparatus receives in response to the command transmitted to the document management application at least one document or other information from document management application and provides the document or other information for access by the specific user on the client terminal.

Recall that system in shows the plurality of client terminals through the document access apparatus and the document management apparatus all directly connected to the network . In contrast system shows that the plurality of client terminals are directly connected to a first network which may be a local area network LAN or intranet internal to an enterprise organization. This first network is then connected to the document access apparatus via a second network such as the internet. The document access apparatus and the document management apparatus executing the document management application may be connected to each other through the Internet or another network or may be parts configured within a single device or apparatus for example.

Further each of the user interfaces through in the user interface part can include an application interface part A through A respectively .

Each application interface part is configured to communicate with the application program interface of the document management apparatus when user input is received at the corresponding user interface. The user input may be a request to upload download a document to from the document management apparatus or a request to access some other application functionality of the document management apparatus. Each application interface part is also configured to send a command corresponding to the user input and acceptable to the document management apparatus to the document management apparatus to access one or more corresponding application functionalities of the document management apparatus.

Specifically when the application interface part communicates with the application program interface of the document management apparatus the application interface part determines a set of possible instructions that the document management apparatus is able to accept. Based on this set of possible instructions the application interface part prepares a command or set of commands corresponding to the user input that the document management apparatus is able to accept and transmits this command to the document management apparatus.

For example if the user input is a request to download all instances of a certain type of document such as a spreadsheet or a presentation document that is known to be associated with a certain file format such as .xml or .ppt then the application interface part communicates with the application program interface of the document management interface in order to determine the protocols for requesting documents of a specific file format from the document management apparatus. The application interface part can then prepare and transmit the appropriate command that is acceptable to the document management apparatus.

The application interface part is also configured to receive at least one document or other piece of information from the application program interface of the document management apparatus in response to the command transmitted from the application interface part to the document management apparatus . Following this the corresponding user interface through provides the document or other information for access by the specific user.

Thus the document access apparatus of this disclosure has the capacity to receive user input from one of a plurality of user interfaces and send a command corresponding to the user input to a document management apparatus to access an application functionality of the document management apparatus where the command is prepared so as to be acceptable to the document management apparatus. Since the document access apparatus prepares the command by communicating with an application program interface of a document management apparatus the document access apparatus becomes highly flexible and has the capacity to communicate with a plurality of different document management apparatuses.

In a flow chart is shown illustrating an example of a more detailed workflow on a document access apparatus side such as the document access apparatus in .

After providing the corresponding user interface for display to the user S the user may input instructions requesting the document access apparatus and or document management apparatus to perform a particular operation. For example the user may issue an instruction using the available user interface activators of the corresponding user interface for the document access apparatus to upload a particular document or file to the document management apparatus. The user may also input an instruction for the document access apparatus to edit a document stored at the document management apparatus or to retrieve at least some portion of a document stored at the document management apparatus for example.

In S the document access apparatus determines whether the user has inputted such an instruction. If the document access apparatus determines that the user has inputted an instruction s yes then processing proceeds to step S. If the document access apparatus determines that the user has not inputted an instruction s no then the document access apparatus continues to wait for the user to input such an instruction.

In S the document access apparatus accesses the application program interface API of the document management apparatus in order to determine the set of possible instructions that the document management apparatus is able to accept. In S the document access apparatus determines the appropriate command to be issued to the document management apparatus based on the user instructions received in S and the set of possible instructions determined in S. In this way the document access apparatus may convert the user instruction into a command that the document management apparatus is able to accept. For example the document access apparatus may convert an instruction for a particular medical document into a request for files with an attribute that the document management apparatus can process. The document access apparatus transmits the command to the document management apparatus in S.

In S the document access apparatus receives from the document management apparatus the image data of a document or some other information in response to the command transmitted in S.

After receiving the document or other information in S the document access apparatus provides the document or other information received from the document management apparatus to the logged in user for display on a client terminal S .

Thereafter the document access apparatus determines if the user wishes to issue further instructions for the document access apparatus or the document management apparatus S . If it is determined that the user wishes to issue further instructions s yes then the document management apparatus returns to S in order to display the user interface most appropriate for the user as discussed above. If it is determined that the user does not wish to issue any further instructions to the document management apparatus s no then the process ends.

Firstly a client user logs into a document access apparatus S . The client logs into the document access apparatus by transmitting user information to the document access apparatus. As discussed above user information may include information such as usernames email addresses passwords screen names telephone numbers facsimile numbers and biometric information fingerprints palm prints voice or speech retinas or irises facial expressions or features signature etc. .

After the document access apparatus authenticates the user based on the user information received in S the document access apparatus determines the corresponding user interface for the user based on the user information and user access information maintained by the document access apparatus and provides the appropriate user interface for display to the user S .

Following the display of the appropriate user interface to the user the user transmits an input instruction to the document access apparatus S . For example the user may issue an instruction using the available user interface activators of the corresponding user interface for the document access apparatus to upload a particular document or file to the document management apparatus. The user may also input an instruction for the document access apparatus to edit a document stored at the document management apparatus or to retrieve at least some portion of a document stored at the document management apparatus.

In S the document access apparatus generates and transmits a command to the document management apparatus based on the input instructions received from the user in S. In particular the document access apparatus accesses the application program interface of the document management apparatus in order to determine a set of possible instructions that the document management apparatus is able to accept. In this way the document access apparatus may convert the user instruction into a command that the document management apparatus is able to accept.

In response to the command transmitted in S the document management apparatus transmits data to the document access apparatus S . The data may include image data of a document that the user is attempting to retrieve for example or some other information.

Finally after receiving the data or other information in S the document access apparatus transmits and displays the received data to the user S . In particular if the data is image data of a document being retrieved then the document access apparatus performs any formatting or rendering of the image data that may be necessary in order to properly display the requested document to the user.

According to another exemplary embodiment of this disclosure the application interface part is also configured to communicate at least some of the user information from the login of the specific user to the document management apparatus or . Thereafter the document management apparatus or determines based on the user information and access control information maintained by the document management apparatus documents and other information which the user is permitted to access. Thus the security features of the document management apparatus are greatly increased.

Turning now to a flow chart illustrates an example of a workflow on a document access apparatus side when a user wishes to edit a current user interface or create a new user interface according to another exemplary embodiment of this disclosure.

When a user indicates their desire to edit their current user interface or create a new user interface by selecting the Edit Current User Interface or Create New User Interface buttons in each of the user interfaces shown in for example the document access apparatus compiles a history of previous user actions with respect to the operation of the user interface S . For example the document access apparatus may compile a list of all the user input instructions requesting upload of a document to a document management apparatus or requesting the retrieval of document from a document management apparatus .

Thereafter the document access apparatus determines the document or types of documents most commonly accessed by the user S . For example the document access apparatus examines the list of compiled user input instructions and determines the document or types of documents most commonly retrieved from or uploaded to the document management apparatus.

Then the document access apparatus determines whether the above mentioned document or types of documents correspond to a particular user interface S . For example if the document access apparatus determines that the document is a legal petition legal brief or case law information based on the file name file extension folder storage location of the document etc. . . . then the document access apparatus determines that the document corresponds to the legal user interface.

A manner in which a legal user interface is provided for display on a client terminal is depicted by way of example in . For example some of the user interface activators such as Case Law and Petitions and Briefs allow a user to access the corresponding types of documents from the document management apparatus. Thus the user may find the legal user interface useful since it is the case that the user has frequently accessed these types of documents in the past and the user may need to access these same types of documents again in the future.

If the document access apparatus determines that the documents do correspond to user interface S yes then processing proceeds to S. If the document access apparatus determines that the documents do not correspond to a user interface S no then the workflow ends.

In S the document access apparatus offers the corresponding user interface for use by the user. That is the document access apparatus informs the user by means of a visual prompt for example that the corresponding user interface is available and queries the user as to whether the user would like to have access to the functionality of that user interface.

The document access apparatus then determines whether or not the user has accepted the offer to use the corresponding user interface S . If the document access apparatus determines that the user has accepted the offer to use the corresponding user interface S yes then the document access apparatus adds the user interface to the user access information of that user S . With reference to the user access information depicted in the document access apparatus lists the corresponding user interface e.g. legal or scientific in the user interface information of the respective registered user. The document access apparatus may alternatively or in addition amend the business relevancy information of the respective registered user in a similar manner.

If the document access apparatus determines that the user has not accepted the offer to use the corresponding user interface S no then the workflow ends.

While the example shown in and similarly includes one document management apparatus one document access apparatus and four client terminals through it should be appreciated that such numbers of systems interfaces apparatuses and terminals are arbitrary and are selected as an example in order to facilitate discussion and that the subject matter of this disclosure can be implemented in a system including one or more systems interfaces apparatuses and terminals. Further it is noted that a document management apparatus document access apparatus and terminal can be included in one integrated device or of course can be separate devices . Other devices such as scanners printers and multi function devices MFDs may also be connected to the network as is well known in the art.

Each of the client terminals through can be any computing device including but not limited to a personal notebook or workstation computer a kiosk a PDA personal digital assistant a MFD multi function device a server a mobile phone or handset another information terminal etc. that can communicate through the network with other devices.

While four client terminals through are depicted in each of it should be understood that system can include any number of client terminals which can have similar or different configurations connected to the network .

The document access apparatus can be configured in software or hosted on any computing device including but not limited to a personal notebook or workstation computer a kiosk a PDA personal digital assistant a MFD a server a mobile phone or handset another information terminal etc. that can communicate through the network with other devices.

The document access apparatus of this disclosure may be realized by a computer program product including a computer usable non transient medium such as a disk storage apparatus having instructions embodied therein that are executed by a computer.

Thus it should be understood that document access apparatus may be executed on a computer. While document access apparatus is shown as being external to the client terminals through the document access apparatus may in fact be executed on one of the client terminals through .

The document store can comprise one or more structural or functional parts that have or support a storage function. For example the document store can be or can be a component of a source of electronic data such as a web server a backend server connected to a web server an e mail server a file server a multi function peripheral device MFP or MFD a voice data server an application server a computer a network apparatus a terminal etc. It should be appreciated that the term electronic document or electronic data as used herein in its broadest sense can comprise any data that a user may wish to access retrieve review etc.

The network can include one or more of a secure intranet or extranet local area network a wide area network any type of network that allows secure access etc. or a combination thereof. Further other secure communications links such as a virtual private network a wireless link etc. may be used as well in the network . In addition the network preferably uses TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol but other protocols can also be used. How devices can connect to and communicate over the network is well known in the art and is discussed for example in How Networks Work by Frank J. Derfler Jr. and Les Freed Que Corporation 2000 and How Computers Work by Ron White Que Corporation 1999 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The document access apparatus may be a special purpose device such as including one or more application specific integrated circuits or an appropriate network of conventional component circuits or it may be software configured on a conventional personal computer or computer workstation with sufficient memory processing and communication capabilities to operate as a terminal and or server as should be appreciated to those skilled in the relevant arts.

In document access apparatus the controller executes program code instructions that control conferencing apparatus operations. The controller memory storage network interface display and keyboard are conventional and therefore in order to avoid occluding the inventive aspects of this disclosure such conventional aspects are not discussed in detail herein.

The document access apparatus includes the network interface for communications through a network such as communications through the network with the client terminals through and document management apparatus in . However it should be appreciated that the subject matter of this disclosure is not limited to such configuration. For example the document access apparatus may communicate with the client terminals through and document management apparatus through direct connections and or through a network to which some components are not connected. As another example the document access apparatus need not be provided by a server that services terminals but rather may communicate with the terminals on a peer basis or in another fashion.

As mentioned above document access apparatus is not limited to a server or computer but can be manifested in any of various devices that can be configured to communicate over a network and or the Internet.

Note that one or more of the user interfaces may be provided as web services through the network to the client terminal.

An example of a configuration of one of the plurality of client terminals through for example as a computer is shown schematically in . In computer includes a controller or central processing unit that communicates with a number of other components including memory display keyboard and or keypad other input output such as mouse touchpad stylus microphone and or speaker with voice speech interface and or recognition software etc. and network interface by way of internal bus .

The memory can provide storage for program and data and may include a combination of assorted conventional storage devices such as buffers registers and memories for example read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM non volatile random access memory NOVRAM etc. .

The network interface provides a connection for example by way of an Ethernet connection or other network connection which supports any desired network protocol such as but not limited to TCP IP IPX IPX SPX or NetBEUI to network .

A user interface is provided and is configured through software natively or received through a network connection to allow the user to access electronic data or content on the client terminal and or via the network interact with network connected devices and services such as the document management apparatus enjoy other software driven functionalities etc. For example a browser such as Internet Explorer Netscape Navigator a proprietary browser etc. may be provided on the client terminal so that a user of the client terminal can use browsing operations to communicate with the document management apparatus and access other data or content.

Additional aspects or components of the computer are conventional unless otherwise discussed herein and in the interest of clarity and brevity are not discussed in detail herein. Such aspects and components are discussed for example in How Computers Work by Ron White Que Corporation 1999 and How Networks Work by Frank J. Derfler Jr. and Les Freed Que Corporation 2000 the entire contents of each of which are incorporated herein by reference.

As mentioned above each of the client terminals through is not limited to a personal computer but can be manifested in a form of any of various devices that can be configured to communicate over a network and or the Internet.

The above mentioned specific embodiments are illustrative and many variations can be introduced on these embodiments without departing from the spirit of the disclosure or from the scope of the appended claims. For example elements and or features of different examples and illustrative embodiments may be combined with each other and or substituted for each other within the scope of this disclosure and appended claims.

