---

title: Device and method for non-invasively evaluating a target of interest of a living subject
abstract: A probe using integrated confocal reflectance imaging, confocal Raman spectroscopy, and gross spatial imaging for non-invasiveIy evaluating a target of interest of a living subject. In one embodiment, the probe includes a casing with first and second ends, and first, second and third optical pons The firsi and second optical ports are located at the first end of the casing and the third optical port is located at the second end of the casing such that the first and third optical ports define a first optical path therebetween and the second and third optical ports define a second optical path therebetween, respectively. Each optical path has first and second portions, where the second portions of the first and second optical paths arc substantially overlapped and proximal to the third optical port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08300220&OS=08300220&RS=08300220
owner: Montana State University
number: 08300220
owner_city: Bozeman
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100225
---
This application claims the benefit pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 e of provisional U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 155 404 filed Feb. 25 2009 entitled DEVICE AND METHOD FOR NON INVASIVELY EVALUATING A TARGET OF INTEREST OF A LIVING SUBJECT by Anita Mahadevan Jansen David Dickensheets and Chad Lieber which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Some references which may include patents patent applications and various publications are cited and discussed in the description of this invention. The citation and or discussion of such references is provided merely to clarify the description of the present invention and is not an admission that any such reference is prior art to the invention described herein. All references cited and discussed in this specification are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties and to the same extent as if each reference was individually incorporated by reference. In terms of notation hereinafter n represents the nth reference cited in the reference list. For example 4 represents the 4reference cited in the reference list namely A. Viehoever Robichaux D. Anderson E. D. Jansen A. Mahadevan Jansen Organotypic raft cultures as an effective in vitro tool for understanding Raman spectral analysis of tissue 78 5 p. 517 524 2003.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. NIH NCI R01CA114471 awarded by the National Institute of Health and National Cancer Institute. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention generally relates to a device and method for non invasive evaluation of a target of interest of a living subject and in particular to devices and methods that integrate confocal imaging with confocal Raman spectroscopy for non invasive evaluation of the biochemical compositions and morphological details of normal and cancerous skin lesions of a living subject.

Optical spectroscopy can provide automated fast and non intrusive characterization of normal and non normal tissues 1 2 . Specifically Raman spectroscopy a powerful technique that probes the biochemistry of the tissue can be used to provide accurate differential diagnosis of early disease 3 . Recent studies indicate the need to isolate the signatures from the different layers of tissue 4 . Confocal Raman spectroscopy provides such characterization with optical sectioning. However Raman spectroscopy is a purely biochemical technique and yields limited information about the tissue microstructure. Additionally Raman signals can be too weak for imaging.

Therefore a heretofore unaddressed need exists in the art to address the aforementioned deficiencies and inadequacies.

In one aspect the present invention relates to a probe using integrated confocal reflectance imaging confocal Raman spectroscopy and gross spatial imaging for non invasively evaluating a target of interest of a living subject. In one embodiment the probe includes a casing with a first end and an opposite second end. The probe further includes a first optical port a second optical port and a third optical port where the first and second optical ports are located at the first end of the casing and the third optical port is located at the second end of the casing. The first and third optical ports define a first optical path between them and the second and third optical ports define a second optical path between them respectively where each of the first and second optical paths has a first portion and a second portion and where the second portions of the first and second optical paths are substantially overlapped and proximal to the third optical port. The probe also includes a collimation lens a coupling lens and an objective lens assembly as well as a first mirror a second mirror and a third mirror. Further the probe includes a band pass filter a long pass filter a scanning member an electronic imaging device and a focus control device. The casing of the probe is configured to be a handheld device.

Moreover the probe is further configured such that the collimation lens the band pass filter and the second mirror are placed at the first portion of the first optical path and the coupling lens the long pass filter and the first mirror are placed at the first portion of the second optical path. Also the second and third mirrors the scanning member and the objective assembly are placed at the overlapped second portion of the first and second optical paths.

In one embodiment the probe in operation has an excitation light that is received from the first optical port and collimated by the collimation lens then passed through the band pass filter and reflected to the scanning member by the second mirror. The scanning member scans the excitation light through the objective assembly and the third optical port onto the target of interest which in response produces backscattered light. The backscattered light includes elastically scattered light and wavelength shifted Raman light which is collected through the third optical port by the objective assembly. The light collected through the third optical port is then de scanned and reflected by the scanning member and the third mirror to the second mirror from which the elastically scattered light is reflected by the second mirror to the band pass filter and transmitted through the band pass filter and the coupling lens to the first optical port. The wavelength shifted Raman light on the other hand is reflected by the second mirror to the first mirror and reflected by the first mirror to the long pass filter and transmitted through the long pass filter and the coupling lens to the second optical port. In one embodiment the elastically scattered light includes morphologic information on the target of interest and the wavelength shifted Raman light includes information on biochemical content of the target of interest. Further the target of interest of a living subject includes tissue of a living subject. With regard to the excitation light received from the first optical port it has a wavelength in the range of 600 1000 nanometers. Also the collimating lens is adapted for collimating the excitation light received from a single mode fiber that is optically coupled with the first optical port and the coupling lens is adapted for focusing the wavelength shifted Raman light onto a multimode fiber that is optically coupled with the second optical port.

In one embodiment the objective lens assembly is dynamically engaged with a focusing mechanism for selectively translating the position of the objective lens assembly in relation to the target of interest for controlling depth of focus on the target of interest. The second mirror is a dichroic mirror configured to selectively transmit the wavelength shifted Raman light and to reflect away light that is not the wavelength shifted Raman light. The third mirror is a hot mirror adapted for selectively transmitting the visible light for use by the electronic imaging device and reflecting away non visible light. In this embodiment the scanning member is a bi axial MEMS mirror adapted for raster scanning a beam of the excitation light onto the target of interest. The electronic imaging device is a CCD camera optically coupled to both the third mirror and the scanning member and it is adapted for receiving the visible light transmitted by the hot mirror and capturing at least one real time image of a selected area of the target of interest from the received visible light. This captured image s is a low resolution bright field image containing gross spatial information on the morphology of the selected area of the target of interest. The probe further has an optically transparent window that is placed at the second end of the casing between the third port and a position where the target of interest is to be placed in operation and the window has a ring LED adapted for providing bright field illumination to the target of interest.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of non invasively evaluating a target of interest of a living subject using a handheld integrated probe for confocal reflectance imaging confocal Raman spectroscopy and gross spatial imaging. In one embodiment the method includes the steps of capturing at least one gross spatial image of a selected area of the target of interest. Based on the at least one captured gross spatial image at least one confocal image is selectively captured which corresponds to a first specific area within the selected area of the target of interest. Based on the at least one captured confocal image Raman spectra is selectively captured which corresponds to a second specific area within the first specific area of the target of interest. The captured confocal image s and captured Raman spectra corresponding to the target of interest are then compared with corresponding known signatures for at least one known condition for a target area of interest. In one embodiment the target of interest of the living subject is skin tissue and the condition is a skin disease. In another embodiment the skin disease is a skin cancer.

Moreover in one embodiment the gross spatial image s is a real time bright field image the confocal image s contains information on the morphology of the first specific area and the Raman spectra contain information on the biochemistry corresponding to the second specific area.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to a method for diagnosing skin cancer in a living subject. In one embodiment the method includes the steps of providing an integrated probe for confocal reflectance imaging confocal Raman spectroscopy and gross spatial imaging and the step of using the integrated probe. The step of using the probe includes performing the steps of capturing at least one gross spatial image of a selected area of the skin containing a target of interest. Based on the at least one captured gross spatial image at least one confocal image is then captured which corresponds to a first specific area of the lesion of interest within the selected area of the skin. Additionally based on the at least one captured confocal image Raman spectra are captured which correspond to a specific site of interest within the first specific area of the lesion of interest. In one embodiment the method also includes the steps of comparing the captured at least one confocal image and captured Raman spectra corresponding to the selected area of skin with known corresponding signatures for normal skin tissue and malignant skin tissue. In this embodiment the casing of the probe is configured to be a handheld device.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to an optical probe for non invasively evaluating a target of interest of a living subject. In one embodiment the probe includes a casing with a first end and an opposite second end. The casing of the probe is configured to be a handheld device. The probe further includes a first optical port a second optical port and a third optical port where the first and second optical ports are located at the first end of the casing and the third optical port is located at the second end of the casing. The first and third optical ports define a first optical path between them and the second and third optical ports define a second optical path between them respectively where each of the first and second optical paths has a first portion and a second portion and where the second portions of the first and second optical paths are substantially overlapped and proximal to the third optical port. The probe also includes a collimation lens a coupling lens and an objective lens assembly as well as a first mirror a second mirror and a third mirror. Further the probe includes a band pass filter a long pass filter a scanning member an electronic imaging device and a focus control device.

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings although variations and modifications therein may be affected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

The present invention is more particularly described in the following examples that are intended as illustrative only since numerous modifications and variations therein will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Various embodiments of the invention are now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like components throughout the views. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Also as used in the description herein and throughout the claims that follow the meaning of in includes in and on unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Moreover titles or subtitles may be used in the specification for the convenience of a reader which shall have no influence on the scope of the present invention. Additionally some terms used in this specification are more specifically defined below.

The terms used in this specification generally have their ordinary meanings in the art within the context of the invention and in the specific context where each term is used.

Certain terms that are used to describe the invention are discussed below or elsewhere in the specification to provide additional guidance to the practitioner in describing the apparatus and methods of the invention and how to make and use them. For convenience certain terms may be highlighted for example using italics and or quotation marks. The use of highlighting has no influence on the scope and meaning of a term the scope and meaning of a term is the same in the same context whether or not it is highlighted. It will be appreciated that the same thing can be said in more than one way. Consequently alternative language and synonyms may be used for any one or more of the terms discussed herein nor is any special significance to be placed upon whether or not a term is elaborated or discussed herein. Synonyms for certain terms are provided. A recital of one or more synonyms does not exclude the use of other synonyms. The use of examples anywhere in this specification including examples of any terms discussed herein is illustrative only and in no way limits the scope and meaning of the invention or of any exemplified term. Likewise the invention is not limited to various embodiments given in this specification. Furthermore subtitles may be used to help a reader of the specification to read through the specification which the usage of subtitles however has no influence on the scope of the invention.

The American Cancer Society recommends that the best way to find skin cancers early is to recognize changes in existing skin lesions or the appearance of new lesions by regular self examination. One way to facilitate this routine examination of skin lesions would be the availability of an easy to use non invasive device that scanned the body in a relatively short time. Such a device could be utilized through the general physician s office or the dermatologist s office to track any suspicious lesions over time.

Skin cancer detection relies on histology followed by simple or layered excision depending on the type and extent of the pathology found. Regular visual inspection and preemptive removal of suspicious lesions is standard in the management of this disease. However if a tool could be developed that objectively provided definitive diagnosis of a lesion and simplified tracking of skin lesions over time routine non essential removal of unsure lesions could be avoided and patient care could be more efficiently managed. In patients who do not undergo routine examination of skin lesions such a tool would be even more essential. The diagnostic method would have to be effective in differentiating normal skin tissue from benign lesions such as nevi from malignant lesions in a real time effective manner that would otherwise be hard to identify accurately using current techniques.

The description will be made as to the embodiments of the present invention in conjunction with the accompanying drawing . Now referring first to in one aspect the present invention relates to a probe using integrated confocal reflectance imaging confocal Raman spectroscopy and gross spatial imaging for non invasively evaluating a target of interest of a living subject. In one embodiment as shown the probe includes a casing with a first end and an opposite second end . The probe further includes a first optical port a second optical port and a third optical port where the first and second optical ports are located at the first end of the casing and the third optical port is located at the second end of the casing respectively. The first and third optical ports define a first optical path between them and the second and third optical ports define a second optical path between them respectively where each of the first and second optical paths has a first portion and a second portion and where the second portions of the first and second optical paths are substantially overlapped and proximal to the third optical port . The probe also includes a collimation lens a coupling lens and an objective lens assembly as well as a first mirror a second mirror and a third mirror . Further the probe includes a band pass filter a long pass filter a scanning member an electronic imaging device and a focus control device . The casing of the probe is configured to be a handheld device.

Moreover the probe is further configured such that the collimation lens the band pass filter and the second mirror are placed at the first portion of the first optical path and the coupling lens the long pass filter and the first mirror are placed at the first portion of the second optical path . Also the third mirror the scanning member and the objective assembly are placed at the overlapped second portion of the first and second optical paths .

In one embodiment the probe in operation has an excitation light that is received from the first optical port and collimated by the collimation lens then passes through the band pass filter before being reflected to the scanning member by the second mirror . The scanning member scans the excitation light through the objective assembly and the third optical port onto the target of interest which in response produces backscattered light including elastically scattered light and wavelength shifted Raman light. The backscattered light is collected through the third optical port by the objective assembly . The light collected through the third optical port is then de scanned and reflected by the scanning member and the third mirror to the second mirror from which the elastically scattered light is reflected by the second mirror to the band pass filter and transmitted through the band pass filter and the coupling lens to the first optical port . The wavelength shifted Raman light on the other hand is reflected by the second mirror to the first mirror and reflected by the first mirror to the long pass filter and transmitted through the long pass filter and the coupling lens to the second optical port . In one embodiment the elastically scattered light includes morphologic information on the target of interest and the wavelength shifted Raman light includes information on biochemical content of the target of interest respectively. Further the target of interest of a living subject includes tissue or tissues of a living subject. The excitation light received from the first optical port has a wavelength in the range of 600 1000 nanometers and is delivered from a single mode fiber to the first optical port which is optically coupled to the single mode fiber . Also the collimating lens is adapted for collimating the excitation light received from the first optical port and the coupling lens is adapted for focusing the wavelength shifted Raman light onto a multimode fiber that is optically coupled with the second optical port .

In one embodiment the objective lens assembly is dynamically engaged with a focusing mechanism for selectively translating the position of the objective lens assembly in relation to the target of interest for controlling depth of focus on the target of interest . The second mirror is a dichroic mirror configured to selectively transmit the wavelength shifted Raman light and to reflect away light that is not the wavelength shifted Raman light. The third mirror is a hot mirror adapted for selectively transmitting the visible light for use by the electronic imaging device and reflecting away non visible light. In this embodiment moreover the scanning member is a bi axial MEMS mirror adapted for raster scanning a beam of the excitation light onto the target of interest . The electronic imaging device can be a CCD camera optically coupled to both the third mirror and the scanning member and adapted for receiving the visible light transmitted by the hot mirror and capturing at least one real time image of a selected area of the target of interest from the received visible light. This captured image s is a low resolution bright field image containing gross spatial information on the morphology of the selected area of the target of interest which also can be seen in . The probe further has an optically transparent window that is placed at the second end of the casing between the third port and a position where the target of interest is to be placed in operation and the window has a ring LED adapted for providing bright field illumination to the target of interest .

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of non invasively evaluating a target of interest of a living subject using a handheld integrated probe for confocal reflectance imaging confocal Raman spectroscopy and gross spatial imaging. Now referring to in one embodiment the method includes the steps of capturing at least one gross spatial image of a selected area of the target of interest . Based on the at least one captured gross spatial image at least one confocal image is selectively captured which corresponds to a first specific area within the selected area of the target of interest . Based on the at least one captured confocal image Raman spectra is selectively captured which corresponds to a second specific area within the first specific area of the target of interest . The captured confocal image s and captured Raman spectra corresponding to the target of interest are then compared with known corresponding signatures for at least one known condition for a target area of interest . In one embodiment the target of interest of the living subject is skin tissue and the condition is a skin disease. In another embodiment the skin disease is a skin cancer. Moreover in one embodiment the gross spatial image s is a real time bright field image the confocal image s contains information on the morphology of the first specific area and the Raman spectra contain information on the biochemistry corresponding to the second specific area.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to a method for diagnosing skin cancer in a living subject. In one embodiment the method includes the steps of providing an integrated probe for confocal reflectance imaging confocal Raman spectroscopy and gross spatial imaging and the step of using the integrated probe . The step of using the probe includes performing the steps of capturing at least one gross spatial image of a selected area of the skin containing a target of interest. Based on the at least one captured gross spatial image at least one confocal image is then captured which corresponds to a first specific area of the lesion of interest within the selected area of the skin. Additionally based on the at least one captured confocal image Raman spectra are captured which correspond to a specific site of interest within the first specific area of the lesion of interest. In one embodiment the method also includes the steps of comparing the captured at least one confocal image and captured Raman spectra corresponding to the selected area of skin with known corresponding signatures for normal skin tissue and malignant skin tissue. In this embodiment the casing of the probe is configured to be a handheld device.

In yet another aspect the present invention relates to an optical probe for non invasively evaluating a target of interest of a living subject. In one embodiment the probe includes a casing with a first end and an opposite second end . The casing of the probe is configured to be a handheld device. The probe further includes a first optical port a second optical port and a third optical port where the first and second optical ports are located at the first end of the casing and the third optical port is located at the second end of the casing . The first and third optical ports define a first optical path between them and the second and third optical ports define a second optical path between them respectively where each of the first and second optical paths has a first portion and a second portion and where the second portions of the first and second optical paths are substantially overlapped and proximal to the third optical port . The probe also includes a collimation lens a coupling lens and an objective lens assembly as well as a first mirror a second mirror and a third mirror . Further the probe includes a band pass filter a long pass filter a scanning member an electronic imaging device and a focus control device .

These and other aspects of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiment taken in conjunction with the drawings although variations and modifications therein may be affected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

Without intent to limit the scope of the invention exemplary methods and their related results according to the embodiments of the present invention are given below. Note that titles or subtitles may be used in the examples for convenience of a reader which in no way should limit the scope of the invention. Moreover certain theories are proposed and disclosed herein however in no way they whether they are right or wrong should limit the scope of the invention so long as the invention is practiced according to the invention without regard for any particular theory or scheme of action.

This example relates to a clinical confocal Raman instrument according to one embodiment of the present invention with confocal imaging as well as bright field imaging capability for the differential diagnosis of skin lesions by providing real time automated non intrusive spectral as well as spatial information about the tissue biochemistry as well as structure.

A compact handheld Raman probe with video imaging capability is first described in connection with of the drawings. Next a handheld confocal imaging device at video rate is described in connection with of the drawings. An integrated handheld confocal Raman scanning confocal imaging handheld device according to one exemplary embodiment of the present invention is then described in connection with .

Now referring to the dimensions of the probe are determined by the microscope objective being used and the other commercially available mounts that are used for the optics. A custom objective is designed such that the probe dimensions with all the optics will be roughly 5 5 10 cm and about 150 g in weight. As shown the objective lens is mounted on a roller bearing slide with piezoelectric drive Micro Pulse Systems CA to provide focus control and have 0.35 NA similar to the existing probe. With a reduced back aperture into the objective optics will be used and flexure optical mounts will be built into the chassis thus eliminating the excess space occupied by the current commercial mounts. Additionally video imaging will be added to guide the region for Raman sampling see e.g. CCD camera . A ring light LED will be mounted around the probe window for bright field illumination. The Raman illumination beam will be visible in the video field of view allowing for image guidance of Raman sampling from regions of interest. A color CCD chip is attached to the probe head to capture a video image of a region of skin 5 5 mm on a target of interest . A hot mirror in the beam path separates the visible light from the Raman signal. A dichroic mirror separates the collected Raman light from the excitation source which is further cleaned using a long pass filter in the beam path. The resultant light is focused onto a 100 m multimode fiber which forms the confocal aperture for the Raman signal. The spatial resolution of the probe is about 7 m laterally and 20 m axially.

The probe is connected via an umbilical chord to the illumination and collection system through optical fibers . A TE cooled CCD camera is used since a fiber coupled ECDL used as an illumination source may get overheated and as a result have a tendency to mode hop over prolonged use. Overheating can be avoided by separating the diode grating assembly from the electronics of the ECDL and adding a cooling fan. A reticule is used to minimize any voluntary and involuntary motions of a patient being evaluated relative to the handpiece. In addition an aiming beam is incorporated for visual guidance of placement. A single graphical user interface e.g. using Labview or Windows programming is also used with the ability to display video images grab frames highlight a region for Raman acquisition and acquire and display spectra. This simplifies data acquisition and archiving.

Now referring to a handheld confocal imaging device at video rate is described. By incorporating the ability to obtain morphologic images structural information can be obtained from tissue of a target of interest of a living subject. Histology the traditional gold standard for cancer diagnosis relies on structural information in its implementation. Thus morphologic imaging provides real time histology. By integrating this imaging modality to confocal Raman spectroscopy qualitative structural as well as quantitative biochemical information about the tissue state is obtained. The choice of confocal reflectance imaging as the method of obtaining morphology simplifies design of the device. Some advantages of this method are that a the same illumination used in confocal Raman measurements may be used for the imaging source b the design may be maintained relatively simple and c the expertise as well as the track record in confocal imaging to build such an instrument is available. Thus the cellular imaging capability of confocal imaging is used to aid in interpreting the Raman signals in the context of local cellular morphology. Not only does the combination of these technologies provide a cellular basis for the Raman data but also the combination of cellular morphology coupled with the chemical specificity provides a powerful multimodal diagnostic tool. Following a modular design a stand alone confocal imaging probe and device is built for parallel testing of its benefit along side the confocal Raman probe. A central component is a bi axial MEMS mirror Microvision Inc. SM capable of two dimensional beam deflection to large angles exceeding 500 resolvable spots with a fast scan frequency of 20 kHz. This permits real time confocal imaging at frame rates exceeding 30 frames per second even at high resolution 512 512 pixel scanning. The same laser not shown used for Raman measurement is delivered to the probe using the single mode fiber . A NIR laser at 825 nm is raster scanned over the sample area to obtain a confocal image. The color CCD camera provides information about gross lesion morphology over an area approximately 5 mm 5 mm.

The objective lens objective assembly of the imager is designed for water immersion and have an NA of at least 0.7 while a focusing mechanism translates the lens element and permits imaging at the center of the field of view into the tissue to a depth of 300 m. A hot mirror HM in the beam path separates visible light from the beam path for use by the CCD imaging chip . Light for low resolution CCD imaging is provided by ring light LEDs incorporated around the window of the probe . An aperture can be utilized to limit the NA of the CCD imaging path to allow for increased depth of focus keeping the CCD image in focus independent of the focus setting for the confocal images. Thus the confocal imaging micro probe is a stand alone probe which demonstrates use for wide field color video imaging as well as in vivo confocal imaging.

Now referring to an integrated handheld confocal Raman scanning confocal imaging handheld device is described in accordance with one exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The same laser as used in the configurations shown in is used at a single location to obtain a confocal Raman spectrum and it is raster scanned using the MEMs scan mirror for confocal imaging. The optical traces of the excitation leg are co aligned while the detection leg separates the elastic scatter and Raman light using a dichroic mirror DM thus allowing co registered measurement of a cross section of skin with confocal imaging and the corresponding Raman spectrum from the center of the same area. The window of the probe incorporates cross hairs marking the center of the field of view. The location of the scan mirror is co aligned with these cross hairs. The use of a reticule will additionally assist in preventing the skin of the target of interest from moving between the two measurements.

In operation laser excitation from a laser not shown is delivered to the probe using single mode fiber . The dichroic mirror passes the light at 825 nm which is then directed by the scan mirror onto the sample target of interest of a living subject . In the detection leg the dichroic mirror separates the backscattered Raman light from the de scanned reflected beam and couples that Raman light into a 100 m multimode fiber which is connected to a Raman spectrometer consisting of a spectrograph and a back illuminated deep depletion TE CCD camera. The objective lens of the imager objective assembly is water immersible and has an NA of at least 0.7 while a focusing mechanism translates the lens element and permits imaging into the tissue of 390 to a depth of 300 m. The hot mirror HM in the beam path separates visible light from the beam path for use by the CCD imaging chip . An aperture is used to limit the NA of the CCD imaging path to allow for increased depth of focus keeping the CCD image in focus independent of the focus setting for the Raman spectrum and confocal images. The use of the reticule affixed to the skin facilitates the co registration of the bright field image confocal image and the Raman measurement site. Now referring to in this combined probe the low resolution CCD camera captures a 5 5 mm bright field image from the investigated site. A 200 200 m area is then imaged at the center of the bright field image and at the center of that square a Raman spectrum is acquired.

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments of the invention has been presented only for the purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the invention and their practical application so as to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the invention and various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains without departing from its spirit and scope. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description and the exemplary embodiments described therein.

