---

title: Semiconducting microcavity and microchannel plasma devices
abstract: Preferred embodiments of the invention provide semiconducting microcavity plasma devices. Preferred embodiments of the invention are microcavity plasma devices having at least two pn junctions, separated by a microcavity or microchannel and powered by alternate half-cycles of a time-varying voltage waveform. Alternate embodiments have a single pn junction. Microplasma is produced throughout the cavity between single or multiple pn junctions and a dielectric layer isolates the microplasma from the single or multiple pn junctions. Additional preferred embodiments are devices in which the spatial extent of the plasma itself or the n or p regions associated with a pn junction are altered by a third (control) electrode.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08492744&OS=08492744&RS=08492744
owner: Acumen Scientific
number: 08492744
owner_city: Goleta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101029
---
The application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 from prior provisional application Ser. No. 61 255 945 which was filed on Oct. 29 2009.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. W91ZLK 07 C 006 P00002 awarded by the United States Army Research Office and under Grant No. FA9550 07 1 0003 awarded by the United States Air Force Office of Scientific Research. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Fields of the invention include semiconductors optoelectronics microelectronics plasma electronics and microcavity plasma devices also referred to as microplasma devices or microdischarge devices .

Microcavity plasma devices have been developed and advanced by researchers at the University of Illinois including inventors of this application. One segment of this research has resulted in microcavity plasma devices and arrays of microcavity plasma devices fabricated in semiconductor materials. Particular microcavity plasma devices having tapered sidewall microcavities fabricated in semiconductor materials are disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 112 918 the 918 patent issued on Sep. 26 2006 and entitled Microdischarge Devices and Arrays Having Tapered Microcavities.

The 918 patent describes microdischarge devices and arrays of microdischarge devices that have tapered cavities. The tapered cavities include pyramidal cavities and are relatively inexpensive and easy to fabricate using conventional semiconductor processing techniques. Tailoring of the electrical properties of the microcavity devices by variation of the tapered microcavity cross section is possible. The 918 patent also describes a microcavity plasma device formed from a semiconductor diode. A cavity is formed that extends through the depletion region of the reversed biased diode and the surface of at least one of the semiconductor layers. The diodes are reverse biased so as to ignite gas in the microcavity. The electric field is most intense in the depletion region of a reverse biased diode. Unfortunately switching and modulation of these devices requires substantial voltages about 200 V and electronics capable of switching such voltages are expensive.

Microplasma devices powered by a reverse biased pn junction were also described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 815 891 issued on Nov. 9 2004 and entitled Method and Apparatus for Exciting a Microdischarge. For this invention the gas within a channel extending through a semiconductor pn junction is excited by the electric field produced when the pn junction is reverse biased. The microplasma thus produced is exposed to the semiconductor wall of the channel and plasma is produced in the channel in the vicinity of the pn junction.

Others have produced semiconductor structures that conduct electrons through space in a vacuum. Examples are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 577 058 the 058 patent to Ossipov et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 683 399 the 399 patent granted to Soclof. In the 399 patent a semiconductor device is disposed in a hermetically sealed container enclosing a vacuum. The device provides an emitter which emits electrons into vacuum and a collector to receive the electrons. The 058 patent discloses a cold electron emitter that also operates in vacuum. The emitter includes a junction that can control electron emission into the vacuum. Electron emitters such as those in the 399 and 058 patents can be used to produce displays but require operation in a vacuum.

Preferred embodiments of the invention provide semiconducting microcavity plasma devices. Preferred embodiments of the invention are microcavity plasma devices having at least two pn junctions separated by a microcavity or microchannel and powered by alternate half cycles of a time varying voltage waveform. Alternate embodiments have a single pn junction. Microplasma is produced throughout the cavity between single or multiple pn junctions and a dielectric layer isolates the microplasma from the single or multiple pn junctions. Additional preferred embodiments are devices in which the spatial extent of the plasma itself or the n or p regions associated with a pn junction are altered by a third control electrode.

A preferred method for creating a conduction channel between n type semiconductor regions separated by p type material defining one two or more pn junctions proximate a microcavity or a microchannel includes reverse biasing a first one of the one two or more pn junctions with a voltage sufficient to drive a plasma in the microcavity or microchannel in a first cycle while removing bias in a second cycle and shorting or floating a second one or more of the two pn junctions if more than one junction is present. Alternately repeating the steps of reverse biasing and removing bias maintains microplasma in the microchannel or microcavity.

Additional preferred embodiment semiconducting microplasma devices of the invention include one two or more n type regions separated by a p type region forming one two or more pn junctions. Thin dielectric separates the one two or more n type regions and the p type region from a microplasma generation area above the n type region s and the p type region. A gate electrode is separated from the p type region by gate dielectric. A voltage source applies a time varying voltage to the one two or more n type regions to generate microplasma in the microplasma generation area.

The invention provides semiconductor plasma devices and arrays of semiconductor plasma devices in which microplasmas are produced in regions including microcavities or microchannels excited by one or more pn junctions isolated from the plasma by dielectric that facilitates the collection and distribution of electrons along the surface of the dielectric. Preferred embodiments have two pn junctions powered by alternate half cycles of a time varying voltage waveform and separated by a microcavity or microchannel. Additional embodiments use additional control electrodes to vary the spatial extent of the n and p regions and thereby vary the plasma properties and brightness.

Semiconducting microcavity plasma devices of the invention can be fabricated by preferred embodiment fabrication methods that use process steps well established in the VLSI and MEMS communities. Preferred embodiment arrays and devices of the invention can be fabricated in different semiconductor materials systems i.e. elemental semiconductors III V compounds organic semiconductors etc. . Preferred embodiment devices are fabricated in silicon. In preferred applications of the invention arrays of semiconducting microcavity or microplasma devices are addressable and well suited as displays or microanalytical instruments such as biomedical or environmental sensors .

Preferred embodiments of the invention will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic representations that will be understood by artisans in the context of the general knowledge in the art and the description that follows. Features may be exaggerated in the drawings for emphasis and features may not be to scale. Artisans will recognize broader aspects of the invention from the description of the preferred embodiments. Additionally artisans will recognize that certain terms such as top and bottom are used for convenience of description and while top is properly considered the opposite of bottom neither top or bottom indicates a necessary positioning of an array or device of the invention relative to any other structure.

In the preferred embodiment of two pn junctions and are common to both microplasma devices and . The p Si regions of the wafer are grounded and the top and bottom pn junctions and are driven with separate voltages. Although devices of the invention can be driven by any of a wide range of voltage waveforms square waves are shown in for convenience. Considering first the lower of the two pn junctions the voltage Vis positive in the first half cycle of the waveform and therefore the pn junction extending along the bottom of the structure is reverse biased. If the magnitude of Vis sufficiently large a microplasma will be produced in each of the microcavities because of the fringing electric field produced by the reverse biased pn junction

Plasma is produced in gas es vapor s or combinations thereof in the microcavities. The desired pressure of the gas or vapor in a particular microcavity is dependent upon the cross sectional dimension of the microcavity . For a 100 m diameter cylindrical microcavity for example the total pressure of a gas vapor mixture is typically in the 200 1000 Torr range.

During the first half cycle of the driving waveforms when the lower pn junctions are reverse biased the upper pn junction is shorted because V 0. However in the second half cycle V 0 and now the top junction is reverse biased. Consequently a microplasma is generated in the upper portion of the microcavity . However negative charge deposited on the dielectric layer on the lower portion of the microcavity wall or still in the gas during the first half cycle of the waveform gives rise in the second half cycle to an electric field extending from the top to the bottom of the microcavities in . This field accelerates the electrons remaining from the first half cycle towards the upper pn junction thereby producing a microplasma along the entire length of the microcavity and not just in the vicinity of the pn junction

The operation described above for the second half cycle of both waveforms continues in the third half cycle but now the role of the two sets of pn junctions and switches and the microplasma will continue to extend along the length of the microcavity . During this third half cycle and subsequent odd numbered half cycles the lower pn junction is reverse biased and residual negative charge electrons from the previous even numbered half cycle resides on the dielectric layer on the walls cavity walls and in the gas. Thus the electric field during odd half cycles in the example sequence of driving voltage points upwards bottom to top and microplasma is again generated along the entire length of the microcavity not only in the vicinity of the lower reverse biased junction. The separation of two reverse biased pn junctions by a microchannel or microcavity provides a mechanism to produce plasma along the entire microcavity and not solely in the vicinity of the pn junctions at the lower and upper portions of the microcavities.

Experiments have also shown that plasma will be generated with only one pn junction as electrons still distribute along the dielectric layer . Though operation with two pn junctions produces higher intensity plasma plasma is still generated with a single pn junction either a device having only one junction or a device having one pn junction operating . Thus embodiments of the invention include alternative single junction operation with decreased intensity but reduced complexity can be used where one of the pn junctions e.g. the upper pn junction is either shorted or allowed to float during the entire cycle or the upper junction is simply omitted. In this case the plasma will only form from the excitation in the region of the lower junction as the preferred case. The electrons generated by this operation will be deposited on the walls of the cavity near the n region during reverse bias of the lower junction and will diffuse away from each other due to electrostatic repulsion when the bias is removed. During the next reverse half cycle the electrons in the cavity will be accelerated back towards the n region producing plasma. The electrons won t be accelerated over as large an extent as in the preferred dual or more junction devices and operation and the plasma is likely to be lower intensity but plasma is still generated.

Artisans will also appreciate that more than two pn junctions can be formed along the walls of a microcavity for example. Such a plurality of junctions can be driven in a manner that contributes to cooperative generation and distribution of electrons along the dielectric surface.

The dielectric layer in A and B serves a number of functions including passivating the semiconductor protecting the semiconductor surface and enhancing the secondary electron emission coefficient. Without the dielectric layer the migration of negative charge between the two n regions of the upper and lower pn junctions and would not occur or would be severely hampered. The devices would still operate however microplasma would predominantly be produced only in the region of the microcavity in close proximity to the pn junctions and

Another preferred embodiment array is shown in and adds a tertiary control electrode . The function of this tertiary control electrode is to control the region within the microcavity in which a microplasma is generated. Application of a positive voltage of sufficient magnitude to the tertiary control electrode will induce an n type region around it. This serves to effectively extend the lower n type region further into the cavity of the device and reduce the distance over which the negative charges in the microplasma migrate thereby varying the properties and brightness of the microplasma for that pixel i.e. an individual microplasma . In this manner the brightness of a pixel can be modulated without varying the drive voltages Vand V .

For the purposes of driving the aforementioned devices it may be desirable to apply a low positive voltage on the non driven n region during the Vand Vstages of the driving waveform instead of simply shorting these regions with the p type substrate in order to control the migration of cavity electrons . This may play a crucial role during the off state of a plasma pixel and reduce unwanted plasma excitation.

Another preferred array of includes a network of n type doped Si regions and p type regions each having the shape of a cross defined around square or rectangular microcavities . In an example embodiment the n type doped Si regions and p type regions can be defined in a silicon layer that is upon a dielectric substrate and the microcavities can extend up to and or partially or completely extend through a supporting dielectric substrate shown in . Arranged as shown in n Si regions and p Si regions are disposed so as to form four pn junctions bordering each square or rectangular microcavity . Microplasmas are generated in the microcavities by driving the pn junctions and on opposite sides of a given microcavity with alternate half cycles of a time varying voltage waveform. As an example a microplasma is generated in the cavity bounded by the pn junctions and by grounding respective p Si regions and and alternately applying a positive voltage to n Si regions and . In this manner microplasmas can be produced in any or all of the microcavities in the network illustrated in . Typical values for the dimensions of are 1 the width a of each arm of every cross is nominally in the 1 50 m range 2 the microcavity area can be varied readily from 10 10 mto 1 1 mm and 3 the thickness of the n and p type regions is typically in the range of 10 m to 500 m.

A preferred fabrication process for forming the microcavity plasma array of is shown in . show a silicon on insulator wafer having a silicon wafer upon an insulator dielectric . In the top of the silicon wafer is oxidized with oxide being formed. In a patterned etch of the oxide is conducted and the pattern defined in the oxide is used to form diffusion holes also shown in in the silicon wafer in . Diffusion is conducted in to form n type regions and the extent of a counterdoped n type region encompassing one diffusion hole is shown qualitatively by the dashed circle at the lower right of . Dopants introduced into one of the holes proceeds radially outward establishing a pn junction . A second selective etch of silicon defines microcavities in the silicon wafer in and L. Formation of a dielectric layer in completes the array of . Thus based on processing Silicon on Insulator SOI wafers having p type Si the process sequence of entails counterdoping a circular region surrounding each of the diffusion holes of .

Preferred modified microcavity plasma devices similar to those shown in have pn junctions that extend into the microcavity from both the top and bottom of the device. present a sequence of processes by which two pn junctions extending partially into a microcavity can be fabricated. Junctions and originating from the top and bottom of the p type substrate extend into the microcavity but do not meet at the center and are separated by a gap . The gap between the ends of the pn junctions in the microcavity is adjustable during fabrication by the depth of a partial etch conducted in . The diffusion conducted in creates the n type regions that extend into the partially formed microcavity . The p type material between the upper and lower portions of the partially formed microcavity defines the size of the gap . Etching in followed by dielectric formation completes the microcavity . As in previous embodiments the upper and lower pn junctions and can be driven by alternate half cycles of a time varying voltage waveform.

Another preferred embodiment device is a microchannel based device. shows a microchannel device of the invention. A microchannel is formed in a semiconductor substrate such as a silicon substrate . Separate pn junctions and are formed at opposite ends of the microchannel by n type regions . Though omitted for clarity of illustration a dielectric layer can be formed over the device as in other embodiments. Although the microchannel is shown as having a rectangular cross section other cross sectional geometries are readily achieved with microfabrication techniques well know in the art. A preferred example alternative microchannel has a v shaped cross section.

While microcavity and microchannel devices are separate important preferred embodiments because the respective microcavities and microchannels confine plasma in manners that contribute to plasma generation efficiency other embodiments of the invention generate a microplasma proximate to a pn junction. are examples of these latter types of microplasma semiconductor devices in which p type regions are diffused into n type substrates to form two n type regions and separated by the p type region . Microplasma is produced above the upper surface of the n type semiconductor which is coated with a thin dielectric layer. Microplasma is generated between the two n regions in a manner analogous to the plasma generation in . Application of a positive voltage of sufficient magnitude to a gate electrode effectively increases the extent of the p region thus increasing the separation between the n regions . This causes the electrons in the microplasma to travel farther thereby increasing the extent of the microplasma. In microplasma is generated immediately above the upper dielectric film by the potential difference that exists between the two n type regions. In an external electrode is used and a second driving signal voltage applied to the electrode serves the purpose of controlling the microplasma parameters independent of a first signal voltage .

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

