---

title: System for procuring business in an e-commerce environment
abstract: A system, method and computer program product are provided for e-commerce. In use, a plurality of suppliers are registered. In addition, goods-related information from customers is received, where the goods-related information is associated with goods. Access to the goods-related information by the suppliers is allowed utilizing a network. Further, offers relating to the goods from the suppliers are received utilizing the network, and the customers are informed of the offers. Still yet, a guarantee is provided to the customers regarding a qualification of at least one supplier with respect to a provision or fulfillment of the offer received therefrom. Such guarantee is provided as a function the at least one supplier or at least one action thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150753&OS=08150753&RS=08150753
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08150753
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100901
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 796 106 filed Feb. 27 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 899 721 and allowed on May 17 2010 the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to business to business B2B frameworks and more particularly to procuring business in an e commerce environment.

As businesses seek to grow and expand they encounter the predictable costs of acquiring new customers or business. The cost of maintaining a sales force marketing functions and ongoing promotions are significant. These acquisition costs generally affect all businesses regardless of industry. Similar costs are incurred by businesses attempting to purchase goods and services. Processing selecting screening and awarding contracts contribute to the growing administrative cost of doing business.

Technological advances have allowed many business to conduct business via electronic communication mediums. Such business may take the form of bidding systems virtual stores etc. By way of this use of technology costs associated with business have been greatly reduced. Further many additional techniques have been developed to enhance the manner in which business is carried out.

For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 789 928 issued to Fujisaki on Dec. 6 1988 describes an auction information transmission processing system constructed by connecting a most significant front computer to a host computer arranging at least one stage of a plurality of intermediate front computers and a plurality of least significant front computers so as to be connectable to the most significant front computer in a tree like configuration via communication lines and arranging a plurality of dealer terminals so as to be connectable to each of the least significant front computers via communication lines. Each of the dealer terminals has basic pattern data storage means storing pattern data indicative of basic display screen pictures and exhibit data storage means storing data peculiar to articles on exhibit at an auction. When the system is started up the host computer transmits a line connection signal to the front computers. After bidding starts each of the front computers in response to a command from the host computer selects a predetermined number solely of bid up signals from each of the dealer terminals and transmits these signals to a front computer. The most significant front computer selects only a predetermined number of bid up signals and bids up the price of an exhibit being auctioned. After a pledge to buy an exhibit is made the least significant front computers identify pledging members based on the member registration data and data indicative of these members are transmitted to the front computers of higher significance.

Another computerized bidding system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 903 201 issued to Wagner on Feb. 20 1990. Wagner describes a computerized open outcry exchange system for transacting sales of a particular futures commodity contract by members of a futures trading exchange wherein bids to purchase or offers to sell the particular commodity contract are made by the members through remote terminals and the exchange computer automatically matches offers and bids to complete the transaction.

A teleprocessing system used by QVC Incorporated is described in an article entitled Fashion Re Evaluates Flickering Fortunes of TV Home Shopping WWD Nov. 8 1995 V170 N87. Shoppers call from their home phones to order items advertised on their television screens. As the orders are received QVC tallies how many people have bought each particular sale item. QVC then displays the tally for each item on the viewers television screens in real time. This interactive television method of buying an item provides easy remote access to a sale and real time feedback to customers. Unfortunately it also requires each home shopper to pay for items individually so that the sale is limited to relatively low cost items.

In addition to the auctions mentioned above several other on line auctions are now being conducted over the Internet. One such auction is described in an article entitled Cathay Pacific Airways USA to Hold First Ever Internet CyberAuction Business Wire Sep. 26 1995 p 9261084. The article states that Cathay Pacific is auctioning off fifty business class seats from Los Angeles to Hong Kong. Registered bidders submit concealed bids by electronic mail over a two week bidding session. The fifty highest bidders at the close of the bidding session receive an electronic mail message instructing them on how to purchase tickets.

Auction Web also has on line auctions as described at their world wide web site http www.ebay.com. In this auction system bidders also register and submit bids through the Internet. Items for sale are graphically displayed on the bidders screens in addition to the bid information for each item. Bid information is updated hourly throughout each two week bidding session. Similarly Christie s International describes Results of the World s First On Line Auction at their world wide web site http www.christies.com. In Christie s auction bidders register and submit bids in the same manner as the Auction Web auction.

A system method and computer program product are provided for e commerce. In use a plurality of suppliers are registered. In addition goods related information from customers is received where the goods related information is associated with goods. Access to the goods related information by the suppliers is allowed utilizing a network. Further offers relating to the goods from the suppliers are received utilizing the network and the customers are informed of the offers. Still yet a guarantee is provided to the customers regarding a qualification of at least one supplier with respect to a provision or fulfillment of the offer received therefrom. Such guarantee is provided as a function of at least one supplier or at least one action thereof.

The workstation shown in includes a Random Access Memory RAM Read Only Memory ROM an I O adapter for connecting peripheral devices such as disk storage units to the bus a user interface adapter for connecting a keyboard a mouse a speaker a microphone and or other user interface devices such as a touch screen not shown to the bus communication adapter for connecting the workstation to a communication network e.g. a data processing network and a display adapter for connecting the bus to a display device . The workstation typically has resident thereon an operating system such as the Microsoft Windows NT or Windows 95 Operating System OS the IBM OS 2 operating system the MAC OS or UNIX operating system. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention may also be implemented on platforms and operating systems other than those mentioned.

A preferred embodiment is written using JAVA C and the C language and utilizes object oriented programming methodology. Object oriented programming OOP has become increasingly used to develop complex applications. As OOP moves toward the mainstream of software design and development various software solutions require adaptation to make use of the benefits of OOP. A need exists for these principles of OOP to be applied to a messaging interface of an electronic messaging system such that a set of OOP classes and objects for the messaging interface can be provided.

OOP is a process of developing computer software using objects including the steps of analyzing the problem designing the system and constructing the program. An object is a software package that contains both data and a collection of related structures and procedures. Since it contains both data and a collection of structures and procedures it can be visualized as a self sufficient component that does not require other additional structures procedures or data to perform its specific task. OOP therefore views a computer program as a collection of largely autonomous components called objects each of which is responsible for a specific task. This concept of packaging data structures and procedures together in one component or module is called encapsulation.

In general OOP components are reusable software modules which present an interface that conforms to an object model and which are accessed at run time through a component integration architecture. A component integration architecture is a set of architecture mechanisms which allow software modules in different process spaces to utilize each others capabilities or functions. This is generally done by assuming a common component object model on which to build the architecture. It is worthwhile to differentiate between an object and a class of objects at this point. An object is a single instance of the class of objects which is often just called a class. A class of objects can be viewed as a blueprint from which many objects can be formed.

OOP allows the programmer to create an object that is a part of another object. For example the object representing a piston engine is said to have a composition relationship with the object representing a piston. In reality a piston engine comprises a piston valves and many other components the fact that a piston is an element of a piston engine can be logically and semantically represented in OOP by two objects.

OOP also allows creation of an object that depends from another object. If there are two objects one representing a piston engine and the other representing a piston engine wherein the piston is made of ceramic then the relationship between the two objects is not that of composition. A ceramic piston engine does not make up a piston engine. Rather it is merely one kind of piston engine that has one more limitation than the piston engine its piston is made of ceramic. In this case the object representing the ceramic piston engine is called a derived object and it inherits all of the aspects of the object representing the piston engine and adds further limitation or detail to it. The object representing the ceramic piston engine depends from the object representing the piston engine. The relationship between these objects is called inheritance.

When the object or class representing the ceramic piston engine inherits all of the aspects of the objects representing the piston engine it inherits the thermal characteristics of a standard piston defined in the piston engine class. However the ceramic piston engine object overrides these ceramic specific thermal characteristics which are typically different from those associated with a metal piston. It skips over the original and uses new functions related to ceramic pistons. Different kinds of piston engines have different characteristics but may have the same underlying functions associated with it e.g. how many pistons in the engine ignition sequences lubrication etc. . To access each of these functions in any piston engine object a programmer would call the same functions with the same names but each type of piston engine may have different overriding implementations of functions behind the same name. This ability to hide different implementations of a function behind the same name is called polymorphism and it greatly simplifies communication among objects.

With the concepts of composition relationship encapsulation inheritance and polymorphism an object can represent just about anything in the real world. In fact one s logical perception of the reality is the only limit on determining the kinds of things that can become objects in object oriented software. Some typical categories are as follows 

With this enormous capability of an object to represent just about any logically separable matters OOP allows the software developer to design and implement a computer program that is a model of some aspects of reality whether that reality is a physical entity a process a system or a composition of matter. Since the object can represent anything the software developer can create an object which can be used as a component in a larger software project in the future.

If 90 of a new OOP software program consists of proven existing components made from preexisting reusable objects then only the remaining 10 of the new software project has to be written and tested from scratch. Since 90 already came from an inventory of extensively tested reusable objects the potential domain from which an error could originate is 10 of the program. As a result OOP enables software developers to build objects out of other previously built objects.

This process closely resembles complex machinery being built out of assemblies and sub assemblies. OOP technology therefore makes software engineering more like hardware engineering in that software is built from existing components which are available to the developer as objects. All this adds up to an improved quality of the software as well as an increased speed of its development.

Programming languages are beginning to fully support the OOP principles such as encapsulation inheritance polymorphism and composition relationship. With the advent of the C language many commercial software developers have embraced OOP. C is an OOP language that offers a fast machine executable code. Furthermore C is suitable for both commercial application and systems programming projects. For now C appears to be the most popular choice among many OOP programmers but there is a host of other OOP languages such as Smalltalk Common Lisp Object System CLOS and Eiffel. Additionally OOP capabilities are being added to more traditional popular computer programming languages such as Pascal.

Class libraries are very flexible. As programs grow more complex more programmers are forced to reinvent basic solutions to basic problems over and over again. A relatively new extension of the class library concept is to have a framework of class libraries. This framework is more complex and consists of significant collections of collaborating classes that capture both the small scale patterns and major mechanisms that implement the common requirements and design in a specific application domain. They were first developed to free application programmers from the chores involved in displaying menus windows dialog boxes and other standard user interface elements for personal computers.

Frameworks also represent a change in the way programmers think about the interaction between the code they write and code written by others. In the early days of procedural programming the programmer called libraries provided by the operating system to perform certain tasks but basically the program executed down the page from start to finish and the programmer was solely responsible for the flow of control. This was appropriate for printing out paychecks calculating a mathematical table or solving other problems with a program that executed in just one way. The development of graphical user interfaces began to turn this procedural programming arrangement inside out. These interfaces allow the user rather than program logic to drive the program and decide when certain actions should be performed. Today most personal computer software accomplishes this by means of an event loop which monitors the mouse keyboard and other sources of external events and calls the appropriate parts of the programmer s code according to actions that the user performs. The programmer no longer determines the order in which events occur. Instead a program is divided into separate pieces that are called at unpredictable times and in an unpredictable order. By relinquishing control in this way to users the developer creates a program that is much easier to use. Nevertheless individual pieces of the program written by the developer still call libraries provided by the operating system to accomplish certain tasks and the programmer must still determine the flow of control within each piece after it s called by the event loop. Application code still sits on top of the system.

Even event loop programs require programmers to write a lot of code that should not need to be written separately for every application. The concept of an application framework carries the event loop concept further. Instead of dealing with all the nuts and bolts of constructing basic menus windows and dialog boxes and then making these things all work together programmers using application frameworks start with working application code and basic user interface elements in place. Subsequently they build from there by replacing some of the generic capabilities of the framework with the specific capabilities of the intended application.

Application frameworks reduce the total amount of code that a programmer has to write from scratch. However because the framework is really a generic application that displays windows supports copy and paste and so on the programmer can also relinquish control to a greater degree than event loop programs permit. The framework code takes care of almost all event handling and flow of control and the programmer s code is called only when the framework needs it e.g. to create or manipulate a proprietary data structure .

A programmer writing a framework program not only relinquishes control to the user as is also true for event loop programs but also relinquishes the detailed flow of control within the program to the framework. This approach allows the creation of more complex systems that work together in interesting ways as opposed to isolated programs having custom code being created over and over again for similar problems.

Thus as is explained above a framework basically is a collection of cooperating classes that make up a reusable design solution for a given problem domain. It typically includes objects that provide default behavior e.g. for menus and windows and programmers use it by inheriting some of that default behavior and overriding other behavior so that the framework calls application code at the appropriate times.

Thus through the development of frameworks for solutions to various problems and programming tasks significant reductions in the design and development effort for software can be achieved. A preferred embodiment of the invention utilizes HyperText Markup Language HTML to implement documents on the Internet together with a general purpose secure communication protocol for a transport medium between the client and the Newco. HTTP or other protocols could be readily substituted for HTML without undue experimentation. Information on these products is available in T. Berners Lee D. Connoly RFC 1866 Hypertext Markup Language 2.0 November 1995 and R. Fielding H Frystyk T. Berners Lee J. Gettys and J. C. Mogul Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP 1.1 HTTP Working Group Internet Draft May 2 1996 . HTML is a simple data format used to create hypertext documents that are portable from one platform to another. HTML documents are SGML documents with generic semantics that are appropriate for representing information from a wide range of domains. HTML has been in use by the World Wide Web global information initiative since 1990. HTML is an application of ISO Standard 8879 1986 Information Processing Text and Office Systems Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML .

To date Web development tools have been limited in their ability to create dynamic Web applications which span from client to server and interoperate with existing computing resources. Until recently HTML has been the dominant technology used in development of Web based solutions. However HTML has proven to be inadequate in the following areas 

With Java developers can create robust User Interface UI components. Custom widgets e.g. real time stock tickers animated icons etc. can be created and client side performance is improved. Unlike HTML Java supports the notion of client side validation offloading appropriate processing onto the client for improved performance. Dynamic real time Web pages can be created. Using the above mentioned custom UI components dynamic Web pages can also be created.

Sun s Java language has emerged as an industry recognized language for programming the Internet. Sun defines Java as a simple object oriented distributed interpreted robust secure architecture neutral portable high performance multithreaded dynamic buzzword compliant general purpose programming language. Java supports programming for the Internet in the form of platform independent Java applets. Java applets are small specialized applications that comply with Sun s Java Application Programming Interface API allowing developers to add interactive content to Web documents e.g. simple animations page adornments basic games etc. . Applets execute within a Java compatible browser e.g. Netscape Navigator by copying code from the server to client. From a language standpoint Java s core feature set is based on C . Sun s Java literature states that Java is basically C with extensions from Objective C for more dynamic method resolution. 

Another technology that provides similar function to JAVA is provided by Microsoft and ActiveX Technologies to give developers and Web designers wherewithal to build dynamic content for the Internet and personal computers. ActiveX includes tools for developing animation 3 D virtual reality video and other multimedia content. The tools use Internet standards work on multiple platforms and are being supported by over 100 companies. The group s building blocks are called ActiveX Controls small fast components that enable developers to embed parts of software in hypertext markup language HTML pages. ActiveX Controls work with a variety of programming languages including Microsoft Visual C Borland Delphi Microsoft Visual Basic programming system and in the future Microsoft s development tool for Java code named Jakarta. ActiveX Technologies also includes ActiveX Server Framework allowing developers to create server applications. One of ordinary skill in the art readily recognizes that ActiveX could be substituted for JAVA without undue experimentation to practice the invention.

In one embodiment a key difference between this invention and other procurement services currently available is that in this instance the supplier is bidding for the rights to fulfill a contract and not necessarily directly for the actual contents or components of the contract. In this embodiment the amount bid may or not be related to the actual cost of the units or total value of the goods or services being delivered as required by the buyer. The bid amount is more aligned with the expected cost of sales prospecting contract negotiation and the risks associated with the competitive bidding that occurs when an RFI RFP exercise is being pursued by a plurality suppliers. In operation contracts are received from customers. Such contract may be for an order for goods or services. Again a standard on line form may be filled out by the customers buyers of the goods and or services to accomplish this. The business logic unique to this invention ensures that contracts are appropriately qualified categorized and cataloged.

The suppliers are subsequently allowed to access the contracts utilizing a network i.e. Internet as indicated by operation . This may be accomplished by sending emails posting the contracts on an electronic bulletin board a PDA a cell phone a PSTN attached device such as touch tone or voice activated command enabled telephone etc. Such contracts may represents a specific work order for a set of goods services and resources that must be fulfilled within a defined time frame by the pre qualified suppliers at a specific price that meets the needs of the customer.

As such bids on the contracts may be received from the suppliers utilizing the network. See operation . Such bids may be received by an electronic mail message call center system on line form etc.

Further in operation the customers are informed of the bids so that the bids may be accepted. As an option the present embodiment may automatically notify the customers when a supplier bids for their business. Again this may be accomplished by sending emails postings on an electronic bulletin board etc. The transaction may thus be carried out with both privacy and security.

Still yet the suppliers secure a performance bond relating to the contract for reducing the risk of non performance by the supplier. See operation . As such all suppliers that want to participate in the exchange are required as defined in the work order to secure a performance bond. Should the supplier fail to perform the bond will be cashed and the proceeds passed on to the customer to reimburse for any inconvenience suffered. As such the bonds ultimately reduce the risk of non performance by the supplier.

As an option payment of an Acquisition Fee may be received from the suppliers for the cost of acquiring the business. As an option the payment may be based on a percentage of price related terms and conditions of the contract. The Acquisition Fee generally may also be some fraction of the costs associated with securing similar contracts had the present exchange medium not existed.

To provide an incentive to use the present invention the customers may receive a portion of the payment received from the suppliers. This may be a certain percentage of the payment a graduated flat fee or the like.

To generate further revenue payment of a Posting fee may also be received from the customers. Similar to the payment received from the suppliers the present customer fee may be based on terms and conditions of the contract.

The present system thus offers significant economic benefits to traditional procurement models. For example the present invention is capable of producing incremental revenue to customers from their percentage of the Acquisition fee . Customers can save money in qualifying and securing suppliers of their needed goods or services. Moreover suppliers benefit by gaining access to incremental business channels at a low cost. Further customer service is guaranteed through performance bonds. Still yet the present exchange process is transparent once the contract is delivered thus affording the supplier the opportunity to manage his or her own customer service.

The present invention thus offers a new low cost confidential and guaranteed method for conducting B2B procurement that will not only speed up the overall process but afford the customer with incremental revenue each time he or she acquires goods or services from any pre qualified supplier.

 a Registering a plurality of suppliers per category managed by an electronic Rules driven profile detailing delivery capability and business terms which can be supported and accepted by each supplier.

 b Receiving contracts from customers both electronically via some network infrastructure or manually via a people intensive process.

 c Standardizing the contracts to create a generic representation of the goods or services to be delivered or performed enabling ease of comparison.

 d Allowing access to the contracts by the suppliers utilizing a secure personalized profile driven network accessible via the internet and other public communications infrastructures globally.

 e Receiving bids on the contracts from the suppliers utilizing the network accessible via the internet and other public communications infrastructures globally.

 f Informing the bidders and customers of the bids via an electronic personalized notification system.

 g Reducing the costs of acquisition and purchase of goods or services to a customer by sharing the revenues generated via the exchange with the exchange operator.

 h Reducing the cost of sales of products and services by quantifying the and defining the costs associated with securing a contract using the exchange s capabilities.

 i Requiring the suppliers to secure a performance bond relating to the contract to ensure maximum incentive to fulfill commitment to supply goods or services.

 j Guaranteeing the customer a qualified meets price delivery time and quality criteria supplier for the provision fulfillment of the goods or services required.

In another embodiment of the present invention the aforementioned contract may take the form of an order for goods or services. The suppliers are subsequently allowed to access the contracts utilizing a network. This network may be a internet or PSTN accessible using a computer terminal wireless or wired via a narrow broadband connection. The information may be accessed using the DTMF touch tone keys on a regular telephone or via voice commands over a wireless or wired telephone without any special modification to the device being used for access. All the necessary information translation to support the plethora of access terminal devices is performed by the invention as part of the network intelligence. As such bids on the contracts may be received by the exchange from the suppliers utilizing the network. Further the customers are informed by the exchange of the winning bids that have been accepted by the exchange so that the contract fulfillment process may begin. Still yet the suppliers secure a performance bond relating to the contract for reducing the risk of non performance by the supplier. In the event that a bidder is unable to perform or fulfill its obligations the performance bond is forfeited to the exchange and the second place bidder is awarded the contract after a performance bond has been posted and received from the new winner by the exchange.

The bidders may prevented from intentionally bidding up the contracts to either drive their competitors out of business or increasing the cost of the winning bidder by two methods 1 Financial disincentive approach levies an incremental non refundable bidders fee per transaction so that each time a bid is made and accepted a modest but significant fee is charged to the bidder the winning bidder has this fee credited against the contract purchase fee. 2 Technical credit level and heuristic behavioral modeling algorithm is used monitor bidding and purchasing patterns when a phony bid is received although a bid may be accepted the bidder may be automatically disqualified after a series of warnings to cease and desist the unauthorized bidding behavior.

A bidding system in which the foregoing concepts may be utilized will now be set forth. It should be noted that the following example is merely illustrative in nature and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. illustrates a high level block diagram of the electronic auction system of the present invention. As shown information from bid form is received by the electronic auction system where it is processed by bid validator . Bid validator examines the bid information entered by the customer on bid form to ensure that the bid is properly formatted all necessary data is present and the data values entered look credible. Exemplary functions of bid validator include verifying credit card information entered by the customer checking that a complete name and shipping address has been entered that the proper state abbreviation and zip code have been entered that an appropriate bid amount has been entered and that a telephone or facsimile number has been entered. Once the bid information has been validated the bid validator places the bid in bid database .

Auction manager preferably frequently queries the bid database to see if any new bids have been placed. If new bids are found during the query then auction manager calculates the current high bidder or bidders and instructs merchandise catalog page generator to regenerate a catalog page with the updated bid information.

Auction manager is also responsible for opening and closing auctions. This entails making merchandise lots available for bidding by customers and disabling their associated buy or bid features on the merchandise pages that have been posted to potential bidders but have closed. When auction manager determines that a new lot should be opened for bidding or an available lot should be closed it instructs merchandise catalog page generator to create or update the merchandise catalog pages for the appropriate lots.

Electronic mail messenger frequently queries bid database for bids recently marked by auction manager as having been outbid or as having won an item in a recently closed auction. If such bids are found the electronic mail messenger formats an appropriate electronic mail notification message and sends this message to the customer. Many customers read their electronic mail throughout the day making this a convenient mechanism for keeping them informed about the status of merchandise on which they are actively bidding. Bidders may reply to an electronic mail notification message informing them that they have been outbid by including an increased bid amount in the reply message. An electronic mail bid sent in reply to the notification is received by the electronic auction system and processed by bid validator as described above.

The bid manager then checks to see if there are any active proxy bids marked as unsuccessful. A proxy bid is a special bid type that allows auction manager to automatically bid on the bidder s behalf up to a limited amount established by the bidder when his or her initial bid is placed. The auction manager will increase the bid as necessary up to the limit amount. This feature allows the customer to get the lowest possible price without exceeding a limit preferably established when the bid is entered. If there are active proxy bids marked as unsuccessful then the bid manager increments the proxy bids by a preset bid increment. This procedure of sorting marking bids and incrementing the proxy bids as required continues until either there are no additional proxy bids marked as unsuccessful or the proxy limits have been reached on the proxy bids. At this point bid database is updated with the marked bids. This process is then repeated for each merchandise lot open at the current time for bidding by customers.

One skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains will further recognize that a variety of different auction formats may be implemented using the basic technique described above. The simplest is the Standard Auction format whereby the electronic auction system awards the merchandise to the top bidder or bidders in accordance with their bids once bidding has stopped. Using this format if there is a plurality of a specific item the system awards the merchandise to the top bidders. Bidders may bid on more than one unit and different successful bidders will in general pay different prices for an item.

The electronic auction system of the present invention also provides a Dutch Auction format wherein the electronic auction system awards the merchandise to all of the top bidders for whom there is available inventory at the price bid by the lowest successful bidder. This format may be preferred by customers for being the most fair when a plurality of a specific item is being auctioned. As with all bidding there will be a range of bids submitted. In the Dutch Auction format the highest bidders are awarded the merchandise but at the same price for all successful bidders the price bid by the lowest successful bidder.

The electronic auction system of the present invention also includes a Progressive Auction format wherein the electronic auction system awards the merchandise to the top bidders based on price bid. As with the Dutch Auction format the highest price bids are awarded the merchandise up to the quantity available of the item being auctioned. However unlike the Dutch Auction format the system awards the merchandise to the successful bidders at different prices depending on the quantity bid. In a preferred embodiment a successful bidder for a single unit of an item is awarded the item at the price of the lowest successful bid for a single unit of the item. A successful bidder for a higher quantity of the same item is awarded the item at the price of the lowest successful bid at that quantity or any lower quantity. For example a successful bidder for a quantity of rive would pay the lowest price for any successful bid for quantity one through five of the item. The price paid for a given quantity is termed the MinWin price for that quantity. The Progressive Auction format ensures that successful bidders for a quantity of an item pay the lowest price paid by any other successful bidder at that quantity level or below. Use of this format leads to lower prices for those who successfully bid on larger quantities of an item provides an impetus for volume buying and therefore leads to greater sales volume.

The electronic auction system also includes a Buy Or Bid format wherein the electronic auction system awards merchandise to bidders who place bids at or above a posted selling price. The item remains for sale until the available quantity is purchased. Bids that are below the posted selling price are maintained in reserve by the system. If a certain sales volume is not achieved in a specified period of time the electronic auction system automatically reduces the price by a predetermined amount or a predetermined percentage of the price and updates the merchandise catalog page accordingly. The lower price may be at or below some of the bids already in the bid database. If such bids are present they are then converted to orders and the quantity available is reduced accordingly. Similarly if a certain sales volume is exceeded in a specified period of time the electronic auction system automatically increases the price by a set amount or by a set percentage of the price and updates the merchandise page accordingly. These automatic price changes allow the seller to respond quickly to market conditions while keeping the price of the merchandise as high as possible to the sellers benefit.

The electronic auction system also includes a markdown feature wherein the electronic auction system of the present invention awards merchandise to buyers who place orders at the currently posted selling price. The item remains on sale until the available quantity is purchased. If a certain sales volume is not achieved in a specified period of time the electronic auction system automatically reduces the price by a set amount or a set percentage and updates the merchandise catalog page accordingly. This lower price encourages buyers to take advantage of the new price. If a certain sales volume is exceeded in a specified period of time the electronic auction system automatically increases the price by a set amount or a set percentage and updates the merchandise page accordingly. These automatic price changes allow the system to respond to market conditions while keeping the prices of the merchandise as high as possible to the seller s benefit.

The electronic auction system of the present invention preferably includes a Proxy Bidding feature that may be applied to any of the auction formats described above. fully describes auction manager including the Proxy Bidding feature. When Proxy Bidding is employed a bidder places a bid for the maximum amount they are willing to pay. The electronic auction system however only displays the amount necessary to win the item up to the amount of the currently high proxy bids of other bidders. Typically the currently high bids display an amount that is one bidding increment above the second highest bid or bids although a percentage above the second highest bids may be used as well. When a new bidder places a bid that is above a currently displayed high bid the proxy feature will in general cause the currently high bid to move up to an amount higher than the new bid up to the maximum amount of the currently high bidder s proxy bid. Once a new bidder places a bid in excess of the currently high bidder s proxy bid the new bid becomes the current high bid and the previous high bid becomes the second highest bid. This feature allows bidders to participate in the electronic auction without revealing to the other bidders the extent to which they are willing to increase their bids while maintaining control of their maximum bid without closely monitoring the bidding. Participation is engaged in automatically on the bidder s behalf by the inventive system. The feature guarantees proxy bidders the lowest possible price up to a specified maximum without requiring frequent inquiries as to the state of the bidding.

One skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains will recognize that a variety of different auction formats may be implemented in addition to those described above. One skilled in the art will also recognize that the electronic auction system of the present invention can employ a Floating Closing Time feature whereby the auction for a particular item is automatically closed if no new bids are received within a predetermined time interval. This feature would typically be implemented in a manner similar to that used to close auctions of old items as shown at step in . This feature forces the bidding activity to occur within a shorter amount of time than would otherwise be achieved because bidders are aware that the item will automatically close if no new bids have been received in a timely manner. Thus bidders have an incentive to stay active in the bidding process to avoid closure of an item before maximum and most potentially winning bids have been entered. The Floating Closing Time feature also allows more items to be auctioned during a period of time since each item is closed once bidding activity ceases the bidding period is not protracted to an artificial length as is the case when an item closes at a preset date and time. The Floating Closing Time feature of the present invention may be employed either in conjunction with or independent of a fixed closing time for an item. When employed in conjunction with a fixed closing time the auction is closed either when the preset fixed time period has expired for the item or when no bidding activity has occurred within a preset time interval. This forces the bidding to cease at a particular time in case the bidding activity becomes artificially protracted.

A general description of the present invention as well as a preferred embodiment of the present invention has been set forth above. Those skilled in the art to which the present invention pertains will recognize and be able to practice additional variations in the methods and system described which fall within the teachings of this invention. For example although a preferred embodiment of the present invention chooses winning bids according to monetary amount included in the bid preference for bids may also be determined according to time of submission quantity of merchandise bid for total bid value or some other combination of these characteristics. Accordingly all such modifications and additions are deemed to be within the scope of the invention which is to be limited only by the claims appended hereto.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

