---

title: Scalable topical aggregation of data feeds
abstract: Data items of various data feeds (such as articles posted to a website or entries in an RSS feed) may be associated with various topics, but a user may be unable to monitor a large number of data feeds, and to avoid previously reviewed data items while searching for new data items. An aggregation service may monitor many data feeds, perform an automated topical evaluation of the data items, and generate a set of topical data feeds. Additional services may also be applied, such as filtering the topical data feeds by various criteria, translating data items from a native language into another language, and removing equivalent data items, such as articles redundantly covering the same news story. A centralized or cooperatively distributed service may scale for improved efficiency and value, since each data feed may be monitored and each data item received and evaluated on behalf of many users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290926&OS=08290926&RS=08290926
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08290926
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100121
---
In many computing scenarios a user may express an interest in a set of data feeds relating to a particular topic. For example a user may read a set of articles on a website about a particular topic or may subscribe to a news website with a subscription request to be notified of new articles on a particular topic. Because many data sources such as websites or newsgroups may offer one or more data feeds such as channels or sections of the website or subgroups within a newsgroup with each data feed offering many data items such as articles or comments posted on the website or replies posted to the newsgroup a user may have to visit various data sources on a frequent basis in order to stay informed of commentary about the topic.

Some applications may be used to consolidate the data items of one or more data feeds and may notify the user upon receiving a new data item. However if each data feed comprises many data items the user might have to review a large volume of data items of which many might not pertain to topics of interest to the user. Moreover the user may be reluctant to expand the number of data feeds that are followed and may therefore miss some topically related data items of data feeds that the user has elected not to follow.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In order to monitor the data items of many data feeds a user may endeavor to filter the aggregated set of data items such as by examining only data items that include a particular keyword that use a particular topical identifier such as a Twitter hashtag or that link to a particular webpage or website. However this filtering mechanism may be inefficient in many aspects. First some data items might relate to a topic in ways that are not captured by a simple filter e.g. a topically related post on a website might use an acronym or synonym instead of a keyword. While more insightful contextual analysis might be achievable e.g. through natural language parsing and language translation algorithms it might be inefficient to perform computationally intensive analysis on a large set of data items on behalf of a single user. Second the user may not be permitted to monitor some data sources on an automated basis e.g. the acceptable use policy of a website might disallow automated polling of the contents of the website and might blacklist or refuse service to the user if polling is detected. Third even for data sources that the user is permitted to monitor on an automated basis it may be inefficient or prohibitive to allocate sufficient bandwidth to receive a potentially large number of data feeds having a potentially large number of data items. The network transport costs of receiving such a large set of data items on a continuous basis may be unacceptable for the scenario of monitoring the data feeds for topically related data items.

Techniques may be utilized to improve the efficiency and accuracy of identifying topically oriented data items in a set of data feeds offered by various data sources and of generating a topical data feed comprising an aggregation of such topical data items. These techniques involve aggregating the topical interests of a set of users potentially a very large set and performing the topical analysis of data items and the generation of topical data feeds. This aggregation may yield some scaling advantages. In particular it may be more efficient to perform the evaluation including monitoring a large number of data sources and data feeds and retrieving and analyzing a large set of data items on behalf of a potentially large set of users and potentially large set of topics. Scaling the results of these techniques to supply information to many users may make feasible the network transport costs of broad scale monitoring of many data sources and or the costs of the computational resources for performing a sophisticated topical analysis of respective data items. Moreover one or more data sources may be more willing to permit automated polling in the context of these techniques since such polled data items may be disseminated to a large number of users while conserving the bandwidth usage of the data source. By configuring a device to receive the data items of various data feeds to identify topics associated with such data items and to generate topical data feeds therefrom that may be provided to a set of users the techniques discussed herein may achieve these and other advantages as compared with other techniques.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a user who wishes to follow one or more data feeds offered by one or more data sources in order to remain informed as to one or more topics. As a first example the user may visit a set of websites in order to read articles forum posts comments etc. that pertain to various topics some of which may be of interest to the user. As a second example the user may subscribe to one or more Really Simple Syndication RSS feeds and or newsgroups and may examine received data items for relevance to topics of interest. As a third example the user may wish to examine a local data source for particular topics e.g. the user may monitor an email account for email messages relating to various topics of interest and may examine received email messages for relevance thereto. In these and other scenarios one or more data sources such as individuals or groups of individuals companies or organizations and automated devices may present data items such as authored content articles reports photos automated log entries and data sets in one or more data feeds such as website sections mailing lists databases and RSS or similar feeds each data item may relate to one or more topics and a user may wish to be presented with data items relating to a particular subset of topics.

In order to achieve this presentation users may access the data sources and data feeds in a variety of manners. presents a first exemplary scenario featuring a user who wishes to stay informed of various topics which may be covered by various data items presented in a set of data feeds offered by various data sources . A familiar example of this first exemplary scenario involves a set of web servers operating as data sources each of which may offer one or more web pages or sections of the website each web page or section corresponding to a data feed . Each web page or section offers various articles user posts or comments photos audio and or video recordings data objects data sets etc. each comprising a data item and each such item may be associated with one or more topics of interest to the user .

In order to view such data items and keep informed of such topics the user may choose to access each data feed in series and may actively review a presentation of the data feed such as on a display of a device operated by the user e.g. a desktop computer a portable computer such as a notebook or a mobile device such as a smartphone. In the familiar example of the presentation of web browsing the user may choose to view each web page or section in a web browser. Upon receiving a request from the user a webserver operating as a data source may render the requested web page or section comprising the current set of data items and may present this rendering to the user within the web browser displayed on a monitor . For example the user may enter a URL associated with a first webserver which may offer a first section e.g. posts by a particular first author such as the author of a first weblog including a first data item involving a first topic and a second data item involving a second topic . The web page generated by the first webserver may be displayed to the user on a display as a first presentation which may include the first data item and the second data item . Next the user may enter a URL associated with a second webserver which may offer a first website section featuring a third data item and a fourth data item each data item associated with a different set of topics. After viewing the second presentation on the display the user may enter another URL associated with the second webserver that identifies a different section of the same website comprising a third data feed and the second webserver may generate for the user a third presentation comprising the data items of the third data feed . In this manner the user may request to access the data feeds in an ad hoc manner may receive a presentation of the current set of data items comprising the data feed and may identify and keep informed of the topics related thereto.

The first exemplary scenario while familiar exhibits some potential disadvantages with respect to other scenarios. As a first example because the user identifies and actively accesses the data sources the scope of data items that are accessible to the user is limited to the set of data sources known to and queried by the user . For example the user may fail to be presented with data items presented by data sources that are unknown to the user or that are known to the user but that have not been queried since such data items were presented. Conversely the user has to query respective data feeds without knowing if any data items of interest to the user are featured therein. For example the user may repeatedly access a data feed that does not include any new data items since the previous accessing or that includes only new data items that are not of interest to the user . As a second example the user might also be redundantly presented with semantically equivalent data items in different data feeds e.g. two news websites present or link to the same article. For example the user is presented the second data item twice once as part of the first data feed and once as part of the third data feed . This may cause frustration to the user in being repeatedly presented with the dame data item in multiple data feeds . As a third example it may be difficult for the user to identify the topics of the data items in order to select and review those of interest to the user . For example the user may have to review all data items in a particular data feed in order to identify those of interest including the context of each data item e.g. a second comment presented on a weblog may be responsive to a first comment and may implicitly rely on the contextual content of the first comment but this may be difficult for the user to identify without having read the first comment. These redundancies and inefficiencies may diminish the experience both for the user e.g. through lost time and bandwidth in reviewing old and uninteresting data items and for the data source e.g. through redundantly serving web pages and items of little interest or novelty to the user . For example the user may have no interest in the second topic but may repeatedly receive and be presented with data items related to the second topic thereby inefficiently expending computational resources such as bandwidth and memory and the attention of the user . These disadvantages are not limited to web browsing but may be exhibited in any scenario wherein the user actively seeks content such as newsgroups event logs and database queries.

Some of these disadvantages may be achieved through subscription techniques. As a first example a user may subscribe to a data feed offered by a data source in order to receive new data items from the data source instead of having to query the data source . The delivery of data items may be initiated by the data source as in a mailing list subscription involving a delivery of new email messages to the user or may involve a mechanism deployed by the data source for monitoring the data feed such as a Really Simple Syndication RSS feed featuring a pollable data feed that the user may poll to identify and receive new data items . This subscription may reduce the active user directed requesting and presenting of the data feeds in the absence of new data items and may also notify the user of new data items even in the absence of user directed refreshing. As a second example the user may consolidate the date items received from various data sources and data feeds for access through a single user interface. For example the user may access email messages from many mailing lists through a single email client or may access a set of RSS feeds through an RSS aggregator e.g. through an aggregator application that executes locally on the computer of the user to request multiple data feeds and present the data items of these data feeds together or through an aggregator service that a user may visit to receive an aggregated data feed generated from multiple data feeds by the aggregator service. By consolidating the data items of many data feeds the user may more easily identify data items associated with a particular topic e.g. by filtering email messages or RSS syndication items for a particular keyword in the subject or body of the message or item.

While the second exemplary scenario of presents some advantages particularly over the first exemplary scenario of some disadvantages may be identified. As a first example similar to the first exemplary scenario of the user remains limited to the set of data feeds and data sources that are known to the user and still cannot view data items involving topics of interest that are posted to data feeds and data sources that are unknown to the user . As a second example these techniques may only be utilized with data sources that permit various forms of subscription such as websites offering an RSS feed. Many data sources may not offer a subscription service e.g. a website administrator may decline to provide an RSS feed in order to compel users to visit the website in order to promote advertising revenue. While the user may endeavor to implement a subscription like service for an unsubscribable data source e.g. by polling a website for new content the data source may preclude this accessing through its acceptable use policy and may blacklist or otherwise deny access to users who violate this policy. As a third example these subscription techniques involve the retrieval of all data items posted to all data feeds and may be unable to request a limitation of the retrieved data items to those pertaining to a particular set of topics . This retrieval may be computationally expensive e.g. utilizing significant bandwidth storage and or processing and it may be prohibitive to subscribe to and monitor many data feeds having a large number of data items particularly if the user is only interested in a small set of topics covered by only a small portion of the received data items . As a fourth example identifying the topics associated with various data items in order to limit the presentation of data items to the user may be difficult. Simple techniques such as keyword detection may provide inaccurate results particularly for topics that are discussed by many natural language names. Conversely sophisticated analytic techniques may be available such as natural language parsing language translation for textual data items presented in a foreign language image analysis for data items comprising images and contextual analysis however the computational costs involved in the application of these techniques may be prohibitive. For example it may be prohibitive to perform computationally intensive filtering of a large set of data items in order to present the results to a single user .

In view of the potential disadvantages of these exemplary scenarios techniques are presented herein for generating a set of topical data feeds for a set of users where data items aggregated from many data sources may be subjected to a sophisticated topical analysis to identify topics associated therewith and aggregated into a set of topical data feeds. These techniques may involve e.g. a centralized service that offers a potentially large set of topical data feeds to a potentially large set of users. An embodiment of these techniques may receive data items from a broad set of data feeds and data sources and may perform a computationally intensive analysis on respective data items in order to identify topics associated therewith. For various users the service may receive a set of topics that are of interest to the user and may generate a set of topical data feeds comprising the data items associated with the topics identified by the user . These topical data feeds may be presented to the user in response to the specification of topics .

A service configured according to the techniques presented herein including the exemplary scenario of may present some advantages and or may reduce disadvantages as compared with other techniques including the exemplary scenarios of . A service configured in this manner may achieve higher economies of scale than single user techniques by aggregating the receipt and analysis of data items on behalf of a potentially large set of users . Sufficiently broad user base scaling of these techniques may render feasible a broad survey of many data sources and data feeds and a comparatively sophisticated automation of the topical analysis of each data item including natural language analysis language translation of textual data items presented in a foreign language image analysis for image based data items and contextual analysis among related data items . Some embodiments of these techniques may also add value to the topical data feeds e.g. by further grouping data items in a topical data feed by subtopic by ranking data items in terms of predicted value or reliability by removing old redundant or inaccurate data items or by translating data items into a native language of the user . Additionally if the service is configured to service a large number of users the service may have sufficient leverage to broker a subscription mechanism with a particular data source that single users may be unable to achieve e.g. a service may offer to undertake the bandwidth expenses of disseminating data items from a particular data source to a large set of users and may therefore compel the data source to offer a subscription mechanism such as an exception to a polling restriction in the acceptable use policy that may be unavailable to single users .

For the user the use of such a service as compared with techniques implemented on behalf of a single user such as the exemplary scenarios of may present several advantages. The user may be presented with data items from data sources and data feeds that are unknown to the user or that the user cannot regularly monitor. These techniques may also may reduce the burden and inefficiency to the user of actively polling the data sources in an ad hoc manner e.g. having to visit many websites in order to remain informed of a topic including visits to websites that have no new or interesting data items . In addition the computational burdens of monitoring a large body of data feeds and processing the data items are removed from the user and the user may receive only the data items that are of interest to the user . As another potential advantage the user may be presented with a more accurate topical aggregation of data items than may be otherwise achieved e.g. a sophisticated topical analysis that may be achieved by a centralized service may be considerably more accurate than simpler topical analysis techniques that might be feasible on the user s device such as keyword detection. The user may also benefit from additional processing of the data feed such as through automated translation of data items into the native language of the user and ranking of data items by predicted value that may be performed by the service without cost to the user .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method of presenting topical data feeds to users such as the exemplary method of . In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system for presenting topical data feeds to users such as the exemplary system of . Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

The techniques discussed herein may be devised with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation. The variations may be incorporated in various embodiments e.g. the exemplary system of and the exemplary method of to confer individual and or synergistic advantages upon such embodiments.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the scenarios in which the techniques may be utilized. As a first example a user to whom a topical data feed is presented may comprise an individual a group of individuals acting collectively and or independently an entity such as a corporation or organization a device or an automated process. As a second example the topics associated with the data items may comprise e.g. individuals locations objects events or concepts. Moreover one or more topics may be represented in a particular manner e.g. by a file resource or website and or may be identifiable in many ways e.g. by a relative or distinctive name a distinctive identifier a hash value a database key value a globally unique identifier GUID or a uniform resource identifier URI such as a resource accessible through a Representational State Transfer REST service. As a third example a data feed may comprise data items of many types including text media such as images sound or video a digital object such as a file or data set a record or record set in a database or a combination of such items. As a fourth example the data feeds may comprise many types of collections of data items such as a human readable and or machine parseable list a database or a portion of a database an event log or file a structured document such as an Extensible Markup Language XML document or a subscription format such as a Really Simple Syndication RSS data feed. As a fifth example the data feeds may be provided by many types of data sources such as a file server a webserver a database server or a device having an output. Some examples of a data source data feed and data items to which these techniques may be applied include a news webserver offering a news website comprising a set of news items a forum webserver offering a web forum comprising a set of forum posts a weblog server offering a weblog comprising a set of weblog entries a data server offering a data feed such as an RSS feed comprising a set of data feed items a fileserver offering a file store comprising a set of files and a database server offering a database comprising a set of data records. Those of ordinary skill in the art may recognize many scenarios wherein the techniques discussed herein may be advantageously utilized.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the architectures of such embodiments. illustrates an exemplary architecture of one embodiment wherein the techniques are implemented as a system operating on a processor of a computer and comprising a data item receiving component a topic identifying component and a topical data feed presenting component . However those of ordinary skill in the art may select many architectures for an embodiment of these techniques and some architectures may present advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other architectures. As a first example of this second aspect the techniques such as the logic illustrated in the exemplary method of may be implemented as software comprising a set of instructions that may be executed on a general purpose processor of a general purpose computer. The instructions may be partially or wholly customized for a particular computer or a particular processor e.g. the instructions may take advantage of architectural features of a particular computer or specialized instructions of a graphics processor . Such instructions may be stored in volatile memory e.g. system RAM or in partially or wholly non volatile memory e.g. a cache stored on a hard drive a read only optical disc or rewritable flash memory. Alternatively or additionally the techniques may be implemented partially or wholly in hardware such as a circuit configured to perform the exemplary method of or a programmable field gate array FPGA that is configured to implement the exemplary system of .

As a second example of this second aspect the techniques may be implemented in many types of computers such as a server a workstation a portable computer such as a notebook a device such as a mobile phone or a circuit operating in a standalone device. The computer might also comprise a virtual machine executing on another device such as a software implementation in Java executing within a Java virtual machine that is represented within the computing environment of a device. The computer may also comprise more than one device such as a set of computers collaborating such as over a network to receive the data items and to present the topical data feeds . For example in a first collaborative embodiment the receiving of data items may be performed by a server which may present the topical data feeds by transmitting them to a device operated by the user for rendering on a display coupled to the device. Alternatively in a second collaborative embodiment the server may present to the client device the set of data items associated with topics and the client device may generate topical data feeds therefrom for presentation to the user . In a third collaborative embodiment various portions of the processing may be distributed e.g. a set of client devices operating together in a peer to peer network may collaborate to receive of data items that are shared with other peers and or the processing involved in associating data items with topics may be distributed over a set of client devices. A collaborative peer to peer network might be advantageous e.g. for distributing the bandwidth and processing costs of these techniques over a large set of devices some or all of which may be operated by users and or for improving the reliability and speed of these techniques through broadly concurrent processing.

As a third example of this second aspect a particular scenario relating to the architecture of embodiments of these techniques involves the presentation of topical data feeds to a user of a set of devices represented in a deployable computing environment. Recent attempts have been made to develop techniques for providing access to a computing environment among an array of devices in a consistent deployable and extensible manner. These techniques also seek to provide automated synchronization of data objects among all such devices and the deployment of a common set of applications among the cooperating devices and a centralized service for managing the procuring installing using and uninstalling of applications among such devices. The set of data objects and applications is not necessarily identical among various devices e.g. a workstation may contain a full copy of the data set and a large number of high performance applications e.g. photo editing software and graphically intensive games while a cellphone device having a smaller data store may store only a subset of the data objects and may feature portability applications e.g. a GPS based mapping software that are not relevant to a non portable workstation. However many applications and data objects related thereto may be shared among such devices e.g. a calendar application configured to manage a user calendar object and the computing environment may be adapted to enable the distribution and synchronization of the application and data objects among such devices. It may therefore be appreciated that a computer system may be advantageously represented in a manner that enables the deployment of the computing environment among a set of devices.

In one such technique the computing environment including a set of applications the application resources and data objects used thereby is represented in a manner that may be delivered to devices for rendering according to the capabilities of the device. The objects include the data objects of the computer system such as the user files and data created by the user as well as representations of the myriad devices comprising the computing environment of the user. A computing environment represented in this manner may be delivered to any device and rendered in a manner suitable for the capabilities of the device. For instance a workstation may render the information as a robust and general purpose computing environment while a public workstation may render a different computing environment experience through a web browser e.g. as a virtual machine that may be discarded at the end of the user s session and a cellphone may provide a leaner interface with quicker access to cellphone related information e.g. contacts calendar and navigation data. Moreover updates to the information set e.g. preference changes and updates to data files contained therein may be applied to the canonical source of the information set and thereby propagated to all other devices to which the information set is delivered.

With respect to this exemplary scenario the techniques discussed herein may utilize the deployable computing environment in many ways. As a first example the receipt of data items evaluation of data items for association with topics and or generation of topical data feeds may be distributed across the set of devices represented in the object hierarchy which may be coordinated by the computing environment host . As a second example the topical data feeds may be presented to the user in a more consistent manner through each of the devices. For example if the user first views a topical data feed on the cellphone device and later views the topical data feed on the notebook computer the presentation on the notebook computer may exclude the data items previously presented to the user on the cellphone device . As a third example in some embodiments the topical data feed may include one or more data objects represented in the object hierarchy such as an email message relating to the topic of a topical data feed . In the context of the exemplary scenario of a topical data feed presented on a first device such as the mobile phone may include at least one data object represented in the object hierarchy and stored on another device such as the notebook computer and or by the computing environment host .

As a fourth example of this second aspect a particular scenario relating to the architecture of embodiments of these techniques involves the interaction of an embodiment with a variety of data sources to identify and extract the data items of a data feed . While some data sources may support or even promote the receipt and processing of data items and the potential redistribution of data items to a potentially large set of users other data sources may not actively support such processing. As a first example a data source may present a data feed to the computer in a manner that is not designed for automated parsing but for presentation to a user e.g. as a web page featuring embedded data items . The manner of embedding the data items may be difficult to parse for example it may be difficult to map the elements of an HTML document to a set of data items indeed some data sources may actively obfuscate the elements of the HTML document in order to reduce automated extraction of data items . As a second example the data source may present the data items in a manner conducive to automated parsing but useful metadata about the data item e.g. that may be helpful in identifying the topics associated with the data item and or that may be presented to the user with the data item within the data feed may be more difficult to identify or may be identifiable in a manner particular to the data source and or data feed . For example a data source may include with the data item an indication of an associated topic but may do so in a manner particular to the data source and or data feed such as hashtag notation.

In view of these details some embodiments may be architecturally configured to facilitate the receiving of data items from a variety of data sources . For example an embodiment may utilize various heuristics to identify data items e.g. by identifying patterns in the HTML elements that may be indicative of a list of items and or to extract data source specific metadata regarding each data item e.g. by identifying common formatting of information such as phone numbers and addresses and associating extracted metadata with data items associated therewith . Alternatively or additionally an embodiment may be configured to apply specific processing logic to respective data items of particular data feed received from particular data sources . As a first example an embodiment may include data source specific logic that utilizes a particular parsing protocol to extract data items from a particular data source . For example an embodiment may web scrape data items out of a web server data source based on predictable patterns in the HTML rendered by the webserver. As a second example an embodiment may endeavor to identify a data source type of a data source and may apply data source type specific logic in order to extract data items and or metadata. For example the embodiment may identify that a particular data source is of a specific data source type such as a web forum powered by a particular type of web forum software and may therefore web scrape the web pages rendered by the data source based on predictable patterns of HTML elements rendered by many data sources of this data source type. As a third example an embodiment may utilize data feed specific logic to extract data items and or metadata from a particular data feed and or data feed type specific logic to extract data items from any data feed of a particular data feed type e.g. it may be recognized that data feeds comprising a photo stream may routinely encode the name of an author and the creation date of an image near the data item representing an image and so all data feed identified as photo streams may be subjected to logic that endeavors to identify and extract author names and creation dates as relevant metadata of respective data items . As a fourth example an embodiment may utilize data item type specific logic to identify data items e.g. if a data feed comprises images logic may be utilized to examine the data objects of the data feed and to extract as data items any data objects matching the file format of an image and or to extract relevant metadata e.g. the file format of an image may include metadata for the author name and when an embodiment identifies a particular data item as an image it may endeavor to extract the author name based on the file format .

Based on this architecture the exemplary system illustrated in may receive data items from a variety of data sources in the following manner. In order to receive data items from the first data source the exemplary system may invoke the data source interface to identify the data source type of the first data source . This data source type may be supported by the first data source parsing component which the data source interface may invoke to receive data items from the first data source and to parse them in accordance with the formatting of the data source type of the first data source . The first data source parsing component may therefore receive the first data item and the second data item of the first data feed offered by the first data source may evaluate them in accordance with the formatting of the data source type of the first data source and may generate a set of evaluated data items . Similarly in order to receive data items from the second data source the exemplary system may invoke the data source interface to identify the data source type of the second data source which may in turn invoke a second data source parsing component to receive the data items of the second data feed offered by the second data source and to parse the data items in accordance with the formatting of the data source type of the second data source in order to produce evaluated data items . The evaluated data items may then be provided to a topical data feed presenting component of the exemplary system which may generate topical data feed therefrom. This exemplary system may be implemented e.g. with a pluggable or driver based architecture such that when new data source types are discovered or when data source types change a data source parsing component may be added or altered to receive data items from data sources of the new or altered data source type. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many scenarios wherein the techniques discussed herein may be utilized.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of receiving data items of data feeds from the corresponding data sources . As a first example of this third aspect these techniques may be performed on a computer that has access to a data feed such as a webserver that serves the data feed or a computer that may access a database containing the data items of the data feed . As a second example of this third aspect the computer may request the data feed over a network such as a local area network a cellular network or the internet. An embodiment of these techniques such as the data item receiving component may therefore monitor the data feed e.g. by polling the data source on a periodic basis or upon request of the user . Alternatively or additionally the embodiment may be able to request the data source to notify the embodiment upon receiving one or more data items such as by subscribing to the data source to receive data items of a data feed . The data source might therefore actively notify the embodiment upon receiving one or more new data items and or may periodically generate and send to the embodiment a digest of newly received data items .

As a third example of this third aspect some data sources may not simply fail to support the automated extraction of data items from one or more data feeds or deter automated extraction e.g. through the use of captchas or obfuscation of HTML structure but may actively prohibit automated processing such as by specifying the prohibition in an acceptable use policy of a website featuring the data feed . This policy may be based on various interests of the administrator s of the data source and or feed e.g. restricting website access to human visits in order to promote advertising revenue or reducing bandwidth and processing intensive automated accessing that may be inefficient. Therefore it may be impermissible for a single user or a group of users to receive data items in an automated manner and the administrator s of the data source may endeavor to detect and blacklist or otherwise block access to the data feed by violators. However some embodiments of the techniques presented herein may be particularly advantageous when used to service a large set of users e.g. by receiving and evaluating each data item once on behalf of a large body of users. This scalability may also promote the interests of the administrator s of a data source e.g. these techniques may enable the data feed to reach a much larger body of users without incurring additional bandwidth costs to the data source . Because these techniques may offer scalability advantages it may be in the interests of the administrator s of various data sources to permit the automated monitoring of the data feed s by the embodiment thereby promoting the receipt of data items by the embodiment. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of receiving data items while implementing the techniques discussed herein.

A fourth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of identifying the topics with which a data item may be associated such as may be performed by the topic identifying component in the exemplary system of . It may be appreciated that a wide variety of data feeds offered by a wide variety of data sources may present a wide variety of data items such as text written in many different domains e.g. news articles technical presentations statistical and factual summaries anecdotes and dialogue retrieved from weblogs and social networking sites images and video recordings and various types of data objects . Moreover such data items may be authored in various languages styles e.g. technical academic or colloquial and contexts. The automated identification of topics associated with such a wide variety of data items may be difficult and while human participation may be involved in identifying some such topics incorporating a Mechanical Turk technique the costs of receiving accurate human attention to a large volume of data items may not be feasible.

Therefore in order to identify topics associated with respective data items embodiments of these techniques may feature various forms of automated analysis including a large and sophisticated set of automated techniques. Some such techniques may involve examining the metadata of a data item to identify associated topics . As a first example of this fourth aspect various types of metadata associated with a data item may be compared with topical metadata items that are often associated with various topics in order to identify the topics associated with the data item . For example a photographic image captured at a geocoded location may be compared with the known geocodes of various landmarks in order to identify a likely subject of the photograph. As a second example of this fourth aspect a topic have a particular topical identifier such as a distinctive identifier of an individual e.g. a numeric identifier of the profile of an individual represented in a social network or a URI associated with a resource describing a particular event and a data item may include a topical identifier of a topic as an indication of an association of the data item with the topic . Moreover some of these topical identifiers may be specific to a particular data source data feed and or type of data item e.g. a particular website may adopt an indicative convention such as a particularly formatted hashtag to indicate topics associated with data items . The architectural variations discussed herein such as illustrated in the exemplary scenario of may therefore detect these conventions for use in identifying the topics associated with a data item .

Other variations of this fourth aspect may utilize content based forms of analysis. As a third example of this fourth aspect various heuristics may be utilized to identify topics in a data item such as the detection of keywords using a glossary of known topics or of proper nouns that might correspond to the topics of the data item . As a fourth example of this fourth aspect semantic analysis may be utilized. For example for data items comprising an expression such as a document or comment authored by a user a natural language parser may be applied to parse the expression and to identify one or more topics that based on concepts such as linguistic structure are referenced by the expression and image analysis techniques and biometrics may be utilized to identify particular objects and individuals present in a photographic image. As a fifth example of this fourth aspect various forms of contextual analysis may be utilized e.g. all data items retrieved from a particular data feed or data source may be presumed to relate to a particular topic or when a topic is identified as associated with a first data item a second data item related to the first data item may be presumably associated with the same topic . As a sixth example of this fourth aspect contextual relationships among data items may be used to identify that a topic associated with a first data item is also associated with a contextually related second data item . For example a dialogue between two individuals may be represented as a set of related data items comprising comments that are responsive to one another. A topic that is referenced within a data item may therefore be identified as contextually relating to responsive comments represented by other data items . This relationship may be explicitly followed e.g. by repeated mention of the topic or may be inferred e.g. by presuming a contextual relationship of subsequent comments to the topic e.g. the comments that follow the topic referencing comment within a certain period of time . More sophisticated embodiments may include several of these techniques and may combine such analyses using various forms of artificial intelligence techniques such as fuzzy logic Bayesian analysis expert systems and artificial neural networks.

Turning to the third data item represented in the exemplary scenario of the topic identifying component may first evaluate the domain of the third data item as a topical identifier may associate the third data item with the topic of the same individual referenced in the second data item . The topic identifying component may also identify a social networking keyword in the content of the third data item and may associate the third data item with the topic representing social networking. The topic identifying component may also match the semantic content of the third data item with that of the first and second data items and may identify that the referenced presentation about social networking is to be given at the Professional Developers conference. Therefore the topic identifying component may associate the third data item with the Professional Developers Conference topic where the presentation is to be given and may associate the second data item with the social networking topic on which the referenced presentation may be given. In this manner the topic identifying component may use many techniques involving both the metadata of each data item including relationships thereamong and the content of each data item in order to associate the data items with topics . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many ways of associating data items with topics while implementing the techniques discussed herein.

A fifth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of receiving topics from the user . As a first example of this fifth embodiment the user may simply specify a set of topics that are of interest to the user such as by providing a set of keywords or selecting from a list of available topics for which an embodiment of these techniques is configured to provide topical data feeds . Alternatively or additionally one or more topics may be inferred based on information about the user . As a second example of this fifth aspect communication of the user may be monitored to identify topics that the user is likely to discuss such as by identifying keywords written by the user corresponding to various topics . As a third example of this fifth aspect at least one user descriptor of the user may be identified such as information about the user stored in a user profile e.g. the age geographic location profession or described interests of the user and based on the user descriptor at least one topic may be inferred as of potential interest to the user . As a fourth example of this fifth aspect various user actions of the user may be monitored and at least one topic of potential interest to the user may be inferred. For example an embodiment of these techniques may monitor the websites visited by the user may identify various topics associated with such websites and may gauge the interest of the user in such topics according to the degree of interaction of the user with the website such as the amount of time spent browsing the website the frequency of return visits to the website and the effort expended by the user to interact with the website such as passive browsing of a web forum for a particular topic as compared with active participation in the web forum .

A sixth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of generating a topical data feed based on the data items associated with a topic . As a first example of this sixth aspect an embodiment may select the data items associated with a particular topic and aggregate the data items into a topical data feed of the topic . The aggregation may be performed many ways e.g. by presenting the data items as an unordered set or ordered in various ways e.g. chronologically by a measure of significance such as the degree of relationship with the topic by a measure of priority such as the degree of trustworthiness or authoritativeness of the data source of each data item or a combination of such factors . As a second example of this sixth aspect the data items may be integrated into a topical data feed in many ways e.g. by including the full contents of each data item by including a summary or excerpt of each data item such as the first few words or sentences of a textual data item or a thumbnail version of an image data item by including a description of each data item such as a filename object type size and source or by including a reference to the data item such as a URI whereby the data item may be accessed.

Some variations of this sixth aspect involve various filters that may be specified by a user for application to the data items while generating the topical data feed . The user may specify various criteria for adjusting the aggregation of the data items associated with the topic into a topical data feed . These filters may specify various criteria such as keywords that may be present in the data items values or value ranges of various metadata items associated with the data items such a date range of the publication date of the data item or a group of trusted or untrusted identities including the identities of data sources or individuals who may serve as the authors or subjects of various data items . Moreover for data items matching the criteria of a filter the filter may specify that data items may be included in or excluded from the topical data feed may be represented in the topical data feed in different ways e.g. the topical data feed might comprise full versions of more interesting data items an excerpts or descriptions of less interesting data items may be emphasized or de emphasized in the topical data feed such as by increasing or decreasing the size of a thumbnail representation of a data item to reflect priority or significance may be positioned within the topical data feed in a particular manner such as before or after other data items etc. Additionally a set of such filters may be combined in many ways e.g. using a hierarchy of Boolean logic or fuzzy logic as a Bayesian network or expert system or as a scoring or weighting system to identify a desired threshold value above which a data item may be interesting to the user or a desired ordering among the data items in the topical data feed . In one such embodiment a criterion of a filter may specify a score that is attributable to data items matching the criterion and when the topical data feed is generated an aggregate score may be computed for respective data items according to the criteria of the filter and the data items of the topical data feed may be ordered according to the aggregate scores. Many types of criteria may be devised and many types of filters with various effects and interrelationships may apply such criteria to the data items while generating a topical data feed .

Additional variations of this sixth aspect involve various types of services may be applied while generating the topical data feed from the data items associated with the topic . As a third example of this sixth aspect an embodiment may endeavor to reduce the inclusion of redundant data items in one or more topical data feeds . In one such scenario two data items associated with the same topic may be identified as equivalent such as two news articles describing the same event or featuring substantially similar content and one such data item may be removed from the topical data feed . In another such scenario a data item included in a first topical data feed may be identified as having been included in a second topical data feed or as having been included in an earlier presentation of the first topical data feed and may therefore be removed from the first topical data feed to reduce the redundant presentation of the same data item to the user on more than one occasion. As a fourth example of this sixth aspect data items may be transformed and or supplemented for inclusion in the topical data feed . For example references to the topic within the content of the data item may be emphasized the data item may be translated from an original language into a native language or the data items may be converted from various representations to a standardized representation that is more consistent among the data items of the topical data feed e.g. a set of data items comprising images may be received in a variety of image formats such as GIF JPG and PNG and may be converted to a standardized image format such as TIFF for inclusion in the topical data feed . As a fifth example of this sixth aspect the data items may be further categorized for example a particular topic such as an actor may be divided into subtopics such as roles undertaken by the actor in different performances or works and the data items may be subcategorized within the topical data feed by subtopic or cross referenced with related topics . Many types of services may be devised and applied to the data items of the topical data feed .

Additional variations of this sixth aspect relate to the supplementing of a topical data feed with user specific data items. Many types of user specific data items may be identified associated with topics and included in topical data feeds . As a sixth example of this sixth aspect a user specific data item may comprise an access controlled data item which is accessible only to a particular set of individuals including the user and perhaps that is accessible only to the user . For example the user specific data items may include files email messages or database records that are personal to the user or a set of articles in a subscription based service to which access is limited to a particular set of subscribers. As a seventh example of this sixth aspect the access controlled data items may include data objects represented in an object hierarchy such as in the exemplary scenario of and may be stored on another device accessible through the mesh or on the computing environment host . In these examples an embodiment of these techniques may examine various data objects that are accessible to the user and may identify topics with which such data objects are associated and while generating a topical data feed for the topic the embodiment may include one or more of these data objects as user specific data items associated with the topic . For example the embodiment may obtain the user specific data items on behalf of the user by utilize the credentials of the user such as logging into an access controlled subscription service using credentials of the user or the embodiment operating on a first device may contact a second device or a computing environment host of a deployable computing environment in order to obtain topically relevant data objects that are represented in the object hierarchy .

A seventh aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the manner of presenting the topical data feeds to the user . As a first example of this seventh aspect the presenting may involve rendering on a display the data items comprising one or more topical data feeds or may involve delivering the topical data feeds to a device operated by the user . As a second example of this seventh aspect the presenting may be performed in response to many events. In a first such scenario the user may specify a set of topics of interest and an embodiment may promptly generate or retrieve the topical data feeds associated with the specified topics and may present the topical data feeds to the user . In a second such scenario upon receiving from the user at least one topic the topical data feed presenting component may be configured to store the topics in a data store that is configured to store data items associated with various topics . Later upon receiving from the user a request to present topical data feeds based on the previously specified topics the topical data feed presenting component may retrieve these topics from the data store may generate the topical data feeds for these topics and may present the topical data feeds to the user . Moreover the inclusion of a data store for the data items and or topical data feeds may permit archiving of such topical data feeds and may permit users to request archival topical data feeds of older topics such as a topical narrative of an event from several years prior. In a third such scenario an embodiment may store the topics and may periodically provide to the user a series of refreshed set of topical data feeds that include or that are limited to newly received data items associated with the topic that have been received since the previous presentation. In a fourth such scenario after presenting a first set of topical data feeds an embodiment may upon receiving a new data item relating to the topic of a topical data feed send the new data item to the user such as by an email notification of the newly received data item or by refreshing a currently presented topical data feed to include the latest data items .

As a third example of this seventh aspect computing resources may be allocated in various ways to generate the topical data feeds on behalf of a potentially large set of users . In a first such scenario the data items may be received and associated with topics on behalf of all users but the generation of topical data feeds may be performed on a per user and per request basis e.g. when a user specifies a topic of interest an embodiment may generate and present a topical data feed based on the data items associated therewith. In a second such scenario a set of topical data feeds may be generated for various topics and when a user specifies or selects a topic the topical data feed for the topic may be retrieved and presented to the user . For example the embodiment may maintain a stock of topical data feeds for popular topics in order to avoid repeatedly generating the same topical data feed for each user and or user request thereby providing an efficiency gain particularly if the topic is frequently requested by many users and or if the generation of the topical data feed is computationally intensive such as involving sophisticated language translation of data items . However this second scenario may not include some aspects of the personalization of the topical data feeds for particular users such as illustrated in the exemplary scenario of . Therefore some scenarios may involve the supplementation of previously generated topical data feeds with user specific data items in order to promote the personalization of topical data feeds for respective users.

As a fourth example of this seventh aspect the rendering of a topical data feed may be achieved in many ways. The data items of the topical data feed may be visually presented e.g. as a list as a collage or as a set of nested nodes illustrating a hierarchy of topics and subtopics. In a first such scenario the data items may be organized as a topical narrative that may be presented to the user e.g. comments about an event may be sorted and presented in chronological order as a narrative report of the event. In a second such scenario the data items may be organized according to priority e.g. high interest items medium interest items and low interest items topics e.g. topic containing data items organized into subtopic and subtopic reliability e.g. items from authoritative sources and items from other sources or personalization e.g. personalized items and items from acquaintances and non personalized items . In a third such scenario interrelationships among data items may be visually included in the presentation. For example a first data item of a topical data feed may have a responsive relationship with a second data item in the same topical data feed or in another topical data feed such as a reply to a comment and a responsive indicator such as an arrow or a hierarchical organization may be included in the presentation of the data items in the topical data feed . In a fourth such scenario the topical data feeds may be presented in a queryable format such that a user may search for data items within the topical data feed matching certain criteria.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described is not to be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

