---

title: Compounds, composition, methods, targets for cancer therapy
abstract: This invention describes methods and pharmaceutical compositions for combinational cancer treatments that are capable of inducing JNK phosphorylation and induce programmed cell death. It also identified genes as target for anti-cancer drug development and enhancement of the chemotherapeutic drug effect for the treatment of cancer. This invention points to a novel method and principle for a new avenue of developing more efficient and low or non cytotoxic cancer treatment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08680129&OS=08680129&RS=08680129
owner: 
number: 08680129
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100104
---
This application is a continuation in part claims the benefit of PCT application PCT US2008 069106 filed on Jul. 2 2008 claiming priority date of Jul. 2 2007 and claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 156 507 filed Mar. 1 2009 which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The research carried out in the present application was supported in part by NIH. The government may have certain rights in the invention of the present application.

This invention relates to the fields of oncology and chemotherapy. Specifically the invention provides novel compounds methods pharmaceutical composition and targets for more efficient and less or non cytotoxic treatments of cancer.

Up to date chemotherapy and radiation therapy are still the mainstream for cancer treatment. These treatments were based on targeting proliferating cells rather than cancer cells only which is also the cause fundamental basis of lethal side effects from these treatments. Targeted therapy a new generation of cancer treatment is aimed to target cancer specific changes of molecules and signaling pathways to induce cancer cell death but limit such effects on normal cells. Enormous efforts have been made in finding the targets and the ways of targeting the targets inside the cells as a treatment. However up to date the success rate of this new generation is limited. One major challenge comes from the complexity of cellular regulation mechanisms and overlapping pathways inside the cells.

Aberrant Nuclear factor kappa B NF B activation has been associated with a variety of tumors and cancer cells for oncogenesis regulation of cell proliferation inhibition of apoptosis promoting angiogenesis tumor invasion and metastasis as well as cancer cell resistance to chemotherapy and radiation therapy treatments Kim H J Hawke N and Baldwin A S NF B and IKK as therapeutic targets in cancer 2006 13 738 47 Karin M Nuclear factor B in cancer development and progression 2006 441 431 6 . Inhibition NF B activity could facilitate cancer cell death and sensitize cancer cells to chemotherapy drugs and radiation therapy Kim H J Hawke N and Baldwin A S NE B and IKK as therapeutic targets in cancer 2006 13 738 47 Karin M Nuclear factor kB in cancer development and progression 2006 441 431 6 Chikashi Nakanishi and Masakazu Toi Nuclear Factor B Inhibitors As Sensitizers To Anticancer Drugs 2005 5 297 309 .

There are two similar but different I B Kinases IKK1 and IKK2 that are up stream regulator of NF B activity. In addition alternative NF B activation pathways such as protein kinase CK2 CK2 also exist. In most cancer cells NF B is constitutively activated. In addition to the IKK classic pathway these alternative NF B activation pathways may also contribute to the aberrant NF B activity in cancer cells Ming Yu Jason Yeh and Carter Van Waes Protein Kinase CK2 Mediates Inhibitor Kappa B Kinase and Aberrant Nuclear Factor B Activation by Serum Factor s in Head and Neck Squamous Carcinoma 2006 Jul. 1 66 13 6722 6731. and other for NFKB activation . Dozens of IKK inhibitors have been produced and are in trials for treating anti inflammatory diseases. However for treating cancer with these IKK inhibitors these efforts have yielded results far from spectacular Chikashi Nakanishi and Masakazu Toi Nuclear Factor B Inhibitors As Sensitizers To Anticancer Drugs 2005 5 297 309 .

More recent studies pointed to the balance between NF B activity and C Jun N Terminal kinase JNK activity which regulates cell death or proliferation reviews . In this theory NF B and JNK cross talk through reactive oxygen species ROS . Both JNK and NF B activity leads to Cell proliferation. However ROS induces prolonged JNK activation that will induce programmed cell death. Conversely activated NF B suppresses ROS and hence suppress ROS induced prolonged JNK activation. Therefore inhibiting NF B while activating JNK would switche the balance to programmed cell death. However up to date no such treatment method has been reported. Most importantly although this specific theory has been proposed none has prior succeeded in demonstrating this effect.

ROS are potentially harmful by products of normal cellular metabolism that directly affect cellular functions. ROS are also acts messenger and indispensable for signal transduction pathways that regulate cell growth and reduction oxidation redox status. However overproduction of these highly reactive oxygen metabolites can initiate lethal chain reactions which involve oxidation and damage to structures that are crucial for cellular integrity and survival. In fact many antitumor agents such as vinblastine cisplatin mitomycin C doxorubicin camptothecin inostamycin neocarzinostatin and many others exhibit antitumor activity via ROS dependent activation of apoptotic cell death suggesting potential use of ROS as a fundamental antitumor principle. The oxidation therapy a unique anticancer strategy by inducing the generation of ROS directly to solid tumors as cytotoxic oxystress for cancer treatment has been developed. However no successful and practical results were obtained probably because of the lack of tumor selective ROS delivery and hence resulting in subsequent induction of severe side effects Fang J. Nakamura H. and Iyer A. K. Tumor targeted induction of oxystress for cancer therapy. 15 475 486 2007 .

One of the unique features of cancer cells is their dependency on aerobic glycolysis the Warburg effect that most cancer cells predominantly produce energy by glycolysis followed by lactic acid fermentation in the cytosol rather than oxidation of pyruvate in mitochondria by most normal cells Warburg O. 123 309 1956 . Along with this Aerobic glycolysis is that cancer cells consume oxygen through trans plasma membrane electron transport tPMET at cell surface that oxidizes the NADH that generated from the glycolysis processes in cytosol and to generate ATP Heart P M Curr Mol Med 2006 6 895 . The tPMET is mediated by NADH Oxidases NOX located on cell plasma membrane. This process oxidizes intracellular NADH and recycles it to maintain the intracellular NADH NAD ratio to support glycolytic ATP. As ATP production contributes substantially to fulfilling the energy requirements of rapidly dividing cells such as cancer cells and that tPMET is the major source for cancer cell energy production that is different from normal cells which perform energy metabolism and consume oxygen in mitochondrial. Therefore targeting tPMET could be a strategy for cancer specific treatment. This concept was initially proposed by Herst P M and Berridge M V based on the facts that the compounds that affect tPMET also affect cancer cell survival Herst P M Berridge M V 6 895 2006 . It was further hypothesed that blocking the electron transport through interfering with membrane ubiquitou recycling destabilizing the redox status of the cell membrane that may stimulate acid sphingo myelinase activity result in the conversion of sphigomyelin to ceramide that will lead to formation of ceramide enriched membrane islands which lead to apoptosis Dumitru C. A. et al 2006 Oncogene 25 5612 25 . Based on this hypothesis Berridge et al proposed to make drugs specifically located to the plasma membrane without entering the cell as a novel anticancer drug development strategy. However up to the date of filing this application no such development had been reported.

Hypoxia inducing factor HIF and pyruvate kinase 2 PK M2 are known to be responsible to the switch to aerobic glycolysis by cancer cells but targeting PK M2 resulted intolerable side effects. High HIF expression levels and activities have been associated with all cancer cells that make cancer cells resistant to low oxygen levels. Furthermore cancer cells are actively undergoing catabolism which result high demands for reducing sources that oxidize the NADH generated from the glycolysis process which further makes cancer cells can survival in close to zero oxygen levels. Single inhibition of HIF seems not sufficient to kill cancer cells. More effective inhibition of cancer cell specific respiration is still lacking and has been sought hardly.

Apigenin is a naturally occurring plant flavone 4 5 7 trihydroxyflavone abundantly present in common fruits and vegetables including apple parsley onions oranges tea chamomile wheat sprouts and some seasonings. Apigenin is a multi function signal conduction agent and has been shown to possess remarkable anti inflammatory antioxidant and anti carcinogenic properties and is currently under active study. Studies on the biological effects of apigenin at cellular and molecular levels have found that apigenin interferes with a wide range of critical molecules and signaling and regulatory processes in the cells including depleting the HER2 protein and suppressing the Her2 Her3 phosphatidylinositide 3 kinase AKT pathway Way T. D. and Lin J. K. Role of HER2 HER3 co receptor in breast carcinogenesis. 1 841 849 2005 inhibit HIF PKC CDK VEGF NF B CK2 AKT MAPK AR and ER pathways activate wild type p53 modulate the deregulated cell cycle checkpoint and induce apoptosis 53 Torkin et al. 4 1 1 . 20072007 1 37061 253 Fang et al. 19 3 3422007 Balasubramanian S. and Eckert R. L. Keratinocyte proliferation differentiation and apoptosis differential mechanisms of regulation by curcumin EGCG and apigenin. 224 214 219 2007 Birt D. F. Walker B. Tibbels M. G. and Bresnick E. Anti mutagenesis and anti promotion by apigenin robinetin and indole 3 carbinol. 7 959 963 1986 Patel D. Shukla S. and Gupta S. Apigenin and cancer chemoprevention progress potential and promise review . 30 233 245 2007 Sato F. Matsukawa Y. Matsumoto K Nishino H. and Sakai T Apigenin induces morphological differentiation and G2 M arrest in rat neuronal cells. 1994 Oct. 28 204 578 584 1994 . In addition apigenin has also been reported to generate ROS which disrupt mitochondrial membranes. Current research trials indicate that it may reduce DNA oxidative damage inhibit the growth of human leukemia cells and induced these cells to differentiate inhibit cancer cell signal transduction and induce apoptosis act as an anti inflammatory and as an anti spasmodic or spasmolytic. More than 100 patent applications related to apigenin have been filed. Among those apigenin was claimed to be used as a drug for treating inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. In addition apigenin was also claimed for the use as a cancer chemoprevention drug and as adjunct use for enhancing the effects of chemotherapy drugs for cancer treatment at 10 M concentration US Patent Application 20060189680 . However as a chemo sensitizer the efficacy effect of apigenin is limited. To be a cytotoxic drug for treating cancer apigenin has to be combined with other treatments. Other isoforms of apigenin other flavonoids isoflavonoids including naturaly existed modified or synthetic including phenoxodiol a synthetic isoflevene have also been found with similar function of apigenin. All of those need to be combined with chemotherapy drugs for cancer treatment.

A more efficient and cancer specific anticancer treatment can be achieved by combining inhibition of cancer cell surface respiration with inhibiting its hypoxia response.

The present invention provides pharmaceutical composition and combinational composition and methods for the treatments of cancer and genes as drug targets to enable the treatment of cancer in a mammal to synergize cancer specific cell death with less or no cytotoxic side effects including 

A pharmaceutical composition and a method for treating cancer by targeting the tPMET of cancer cells to block the tarns plasma membrane electron transfer and or uncoupling the oxidative phosphorylation across the cell plasma membrane without affecting the same function at the mitochondria membrane in combination inhibition of cellular responses to hypoxia to reach a synergistic therapeutic effect of inducing cancer specific cell death for cancer treatment 

A use of WST 3 and any of the valid substitutes that are capable of blocking the tPMET by uncoupling the oxidative phposphorylation on cell plasma membrane for the said combination treatment 

A pharmaceutical composition and a method for treating cancer by combining WST 3 or its valid substitutes with apiginin or its valid substitutes as an cancer specific and less toxic anticancer treatment 

A use of a reagent WST 1r comprising water soluble tetrozolium salts and intermediate electron acceptors as a drug to interfere tPMET for the said combination treatment 

A pharmaceutical composition of WST 1r and any of the valid substitutes of WST 1r for the said combination treatment that are capable of conducting trans plasma membrane electron transport and induces ROS. The WST 1r and any of the valid substitutes of WST 1 is a mixture of tetrazolium salt and an electron coupling reagent IEA or at least one of the tetrozolium salt or at least one of the IEA in optimized concentration. The compounds may be administered in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier medium.

A pharmaceutical composition and a method for treating cancer by combining WST 1r or its valid substitutes with apiginin or its valid substitutes as an cancer specific and less toxic anticancer treatment 

Selected genes molecules and polynucleotide sequences and polypeptide sequences are provided as target for designing drugs for the treatment of a cancer in a patient in need. These targets are the human transcripts and their corresponding protein peptide molecules and or the genomic DNA sequences that are selected from the blast analysis of the DNA sequence of pUC19 DNA vector against human genome and treanscripts the DNA sequences of which mapped to the human transcripts and or genomic sequences in short pieces. The transcripts and their corresponding coding molecules are targets for enhancing the efficacy of the treatments of cancer. Other sequences that thus mapped to human genomic sequences may be used as targets as well as being used for targeting these corresponding genes. The potential drugs that can be designed to targeting these targets include but not limited to siRNA small molecule inhibitors peptides inhibitors anti sense RNA anti sense Oligo antibodies antibody fragments proteins dominant negative DNA vectors and Interferon IFN . In a particular embodiment of this invention these targets are but not limited to polynucleotide sequences of TRPC6 SEQ ID NO 2 MAGI 3 SEQ ID NO 4 TMEM182 SEQ ID NO 5 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID NO 3 or c60rf108 SEQ ID NO 14 and the polypeptide sequences of TRPC6 SEQ ID NO 6 MAGI 3 SEQ ID NO 8 TMEM182 SEQ ID NO 9 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID NO 7 or c60rf108 SEQ ID NO 15 . The sequence to target human genomic sequence and or transcripts are but not limited to puc19 DNA vector SEQ ID NO 1 pc DNA3 vector SEQ ID NO 13 siRNA2 SEQ ID NO 10 12 . Synthetic siRNA that against these target genes SEQ ID NO 2 5 and SEQ ID NO 14 were selected for demonstrating the potential use of these genes as a target for the combination treatment for cancer 

A method for treating a cancer in a patient in need thereof comprising administering to the patient concurrently or sequentially a therapeutically effective amount of 1 at least one of the transfection of puc19 DNA vector or administering at least one of the substitutes of puc19 DNA transfection and 2 at least one IKK inhibitor and 3 an additional third agent WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of WST 1r in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier medium. Wherein said combination enhances the induction of cancer cell death while otherwise any of these agents separately are demonstrated not to be toxic.

The valid substitutes for Puc19 DNA transfection are selected from the group consisting of 1 type I IFN 2 Synthetic small interfering RNAs siRNA the nucleotide sequence SEQ ID NO 10 12 of which mapped to both the DNA sequence of the pUC19 DNA vector and human transcripts and genome DNA sequences 3 the biological compounds selected from the group consisting of biological and non biological organic or non organic compounds. The said method of screening compounds wherein said biological chemicals are further selected from the group of polypeptides proteins peptides antibodies antibody fragments nucleic acids and polynucleotide the products of which interact and interfere said selected targets of the polynucleotide sequences of TRPC6 SEQ ID NO 2 MAGI 3 SEQ ID NO 4 TMEM182 SEQ ID NO 5 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID NO 3 or c60rf108 SEQ ID NO 14 and the polypeptide sequences of TRPC6 SEQ ID NO 6 MAGI 3 SEQ ID NO 8 TMEM182 SEQ ID NO 9 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID NO 7 or c60rf108 SEQ ID NO 15 . Synthetic siRNA that against these target genes SEQ ID NO 2 to 5 and SEQ ID NO 14 were selected for demonstrating the potential use of these genes as a target for the combination treatment for cancer 

A method of inducing programmed cell death of cancer cells in a malignant cell population and treating a patient with cancer comprising the use of a combination therapy. The combination therapy of the present invention comprises administering an effective dose of WST 1r or any valid substitutes that is capable of conducting trans plasma membrane electron transfer and induces ROS in a cell and apigenin a multi function inhibitor that inhibits HIF CK2 NF B activity and other molecules and or signaling pathways or at least one of the IKK inhibitor. The said combination treatment enhances apigenin anti neoplasm effect and synergizes the induced cancer cell death 

A method is provided for treating a cancer in a patient in need thereof by administering to the patient concurrently or sequentially a therapeutically effective amount of at least one GSK3 inhibitor and protein kinase CK2 CK2 inhibitor and addition of a third agent WST 1r. In a particular embodiment of the invention the preferred at least one GSK3 inhibitor is LiCl and the preferred protein kinase CK2 CK2 inhibitor is Apigenin. The compounds may be administered in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier medium. Wherein said combination enhances the induction of cancer cell death otherwise any of these agents separately are demonstrated not to be toxic 

A method is provided for treating cancer in a patient in need comprising administering concurrently or sequentially a therapeutically effective amount of a combination of a selective Puc19 DNA trasnfection or at least one of any of the valid substitutes of puc19 transfection as listed above in combination with at least one of a selected approved chemotherapeutic agents. Wherein said Puc19 DNA trasnfection or administering at least one of the valid substitutes of puc19 transfection being capable of substantially enhancing anti neoplastic effects of said proved chemotherapeutic agents substantially reducing toxic side effects of said chemotherapeutic agents or a combination thereof wherein said Puc19 DNA trasnfection or at least one of the valid substitutes has a substantial effect on activity of said chemotherapeutic agents 

A method is provided for synergistically inhibiting NF BNF KAPPAB activity in cancer cells and in a patient in need thereof by administering to the cells or patient concurrently or sequentially a therapeutically effective amount of at least one Dominant negative kinase dead IKK1 DNA vector IKK1 KA and at least one Dominant negative kinase dead IKK2 DNA vector IKK2 KA . The at least one Dominant negative kinase dead IKK1 KA or IKK2 KA may be substituted by IKK inhibitors selected from the group consisting of IKK inhibitor list . The compounds may be administered in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier medium. This combinational inhibition effect may be further enhanced by adding a third agent WST 1r or the valid substitutes of WST 1r for further induction of cancer cell death 

A method of inducing cancer cell death and treating a patient comprising the use of a combination therapy. The combination therapy of the present invention comprises administering an effective dose of at least a compound that inhibits NF B activity and at least one compound that inhibits STAT3 in a preferred embodiment the compound that inhibits NF B activity is apigenin or an IKK inhibitor or a CK2 inhibitor and the compound that inhibits STAT is stattic. The compounds may be administered in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.

A use of the combination therapy to treat cancers comprising administering IKK inhibitor or apigenin and a STAT3 inhibitor stattic. In one preferred embodiment the cancers are selected from the group consisting of a subtype of head and neck squamous carcinoma.

The efficacy of anticancer therapy can be enhanced by combination of proper selected compounds biological molecules and drugs that block the tPMET and cell surface respiration in combination with inhibiting cellular hypoxia responses to induce synergistic and cancer cell specific cell death. Several combinational pharmaceutical compositions and methods for anticancer treatment are described. The development of these pharmaceutical compositions were based on the following discoveries 

The discovery the use of WST 3 WST 1r and their valid substitutes as drugs for combination therapies by combining with apigenin IKK inhibitors or Puc19 DNA or any of its valid substitutes that induced synergetic and cancer specific cell death 

The discovery the structure and function features of WST 3 representing a class chemicals of a cell surface oxidative phosphorylation uncpupler and the corresponding principle to design a chemical compound for targeting tPMET and blocking cell surface oxidative phosphorylaition tPMET and cell respiration for the said combination anticancer treatment.

 3 The use of puc19 DNA sequences and the corresponding siRNAs as anti cancer drugs as well as the discovery of the corresponding genes as target for developing anticancer therapy.

 4 The discovery of the method and combinational composition of WST 3 and apigenin or their valid substitutes as anticancer treatment.

 5 The discovery of the method and combinational composition of WST 1r and apigenin or their valid substitutes as anticancer treatment.

The first and the second discoveries led to the identification of classes of chemicals and corresponding pharmaceutical compositions of using these chemical compounds as drugs for the combination treatment for cancer. The third finding further led to the discovery of several genes as targets for developing anticancer drugs. These are rarely studied genes and some of them are still in hypothetical gene status. Together these findings led to establishing several combinational treatment methods for cancer therapy.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition of WST 3 was described as a cell surface oxidative phosphorylation uncouple for the use as drugs for combinational treatment of cancer.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical composition of WST 1r was described an agent that interferes tPMET for the use as drugs for combinational treatment of cancer.

Yet in another embodiment the classes of chemical compounds of WST 3 and their special chemical structures for designing drugs to direct target the tPMET and as an uncoupler to block the cell surface energy metabolism and cell surface respiration are descried for the use of the combination treatment for cancer.

Yet in another embodiment the classes of chemical compounds and the combination of these compounds that can form the formula of WST 1r and the valid substitutes of WST 1r are descried for the use of the combination treatment for cancer.

In one of the embodiments Puc19 DNA vector was found to have biological effect on mammalian and human cancer cells and was used as a drug for combination treatment with WST 1r reagents and with or without IKK inhibitors.

In another embodiment Puc19 DNA vector was used as a drug in combination with chemotherapeutic drug for enhancing the therapeutic effect of these chemotherapeutic drugs for the treatment of cancer.

According to the above embodiments small interfering RNAs SEQ ID No 10 12 the sequence of which were derived from the nucleotide sequence of Puc19 DNA vector were described for the use of combination treatments for cancer.

Yet also according to the above embodiments human genes TRPC6 SEQ ID NO 2 MAGI 3 SEQ ID NO 4 TMEM182 SEQ ID NO 5 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID NO 3 or c60rf108 SEQ ID NO 14 and the polypeptide sequences of TRPC6 SEQ ID NO 6 MAGI 3 SEQ ID NO 8 TMEM182 SEQ ID NO 9 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID NO 7 or c60rf108 SEQ ID NO 15 that were selected based on Puc19 DNA sequence analysis and the biological function of the corresponding siRNAs to be used as target for drug development for the treatment of cancer are described.

Yet another embodiment wherein said the valid substitutes of Puc19 DNA that were selected from biological and non biological compounds and their effects in combination with WST 1r or the valid substitutes of WST 1r and with or without IKK inhibitor is described. Wherein said the biological compound for the valid substitutes of Puc19 DNA include different members of Interferon and all the siRNAs mentioned above.

Yet another embodiment wherein said the valid substitutes of Puc19 DNA that were selected from biological and non biological compounds and their effects in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs is described. Wherein said the biological compound for the valid substitutes of Puc19 DNA include different members of Interferon and all the siRNAs mentioned above.

In another embodiment a medical use of combination treatment for cancer comprising apigenin the flavonoids or at least one IKK inhibitor and WST 1r is described.

Yet in another embodiment a medical use of combination treatment for cancer comprising at least one Protein kinase II CK2 inhibitor apigenin at least one GSK3 inhibitor Lithium chloride and WST 1r for enhancing treatment effect is described.

The term pUC19 DNA is a DNA cloning vector SEQ ID 1 that amplifies in prokaryotic cells. DNA sequence of this vector was originally submitted to NCBI gene bank by J. Messing Waksman Institute N.J. on 3 MAR 1986 and revised by F. Pfeiffer on 16 DEC 1986. In the present description pUC19 has been used as a drug for anticancer therapy by transfected into human cancer cells.

The data suggests that the DNA sequence that composes this DNA vector has biological effects in cultured human cancer cells that lead to synergistic cell death when combined with other treatments to these cells as described in this description. Blast analysis of the DNA sequence of pUC19 against human genome and transcripts for short matches showed multiple short sequences aligned to varies locations of flanking sequences of human genome and transcripts Blast result is attached to this application . In the present description pUC19 represents the combination of short DNA sequences usually 15 100 bases that mapped to human transcripts and or flanking regions of genes of human genome DNA sequences. Accordingly the corresponding gene products are the targets of the pUC19. The polynucleotide sequences and amino acid sequences that include but not limited to siRNA miRNA shRNA peptide that are directly derived from the pUC19 DNA sequence as well as derived from the corresponding genes and small molecules and antibodies that can interact and or inhibit the function and activity of these corresponding molecules as direct gene products of their DNA sequences the DNA sequences of their corresponding gene contain these short matched DNA sequences from the DNA sequence of pUC19. The matched DNA sequences don t have to be exact matches. The matched DNA sequences can vary slightly 10 20 and even up to 30 40 .

The term pcDNA3m DNA is a mammalian expression vector version 3.1 with modifications SEQ ID 13 . DNA sequence of this vector was originally derived from the pUC19 with further modifications and obtained from Invitrogen which has discontinued the production and selling of this vector. pcDNA3 has been transfected into human cancer cells by chemical or liposome based DNA transfection reagents. Similar to pUC19 the DNA sequence that composes this DNA vector have biological effects in cultured human cancer cells that lead to synergistic cell death when combined with other treatments to these cells as described. In the present description pcDNA3 represents the short DNA sequences usually 15 100 bases that mapped to human transcripts and or human genome DNA sequences and their corresponding gene products that include but not limited to siRNA miRNA shRNA peptide that are directly derived from the DNA sequence of this vector and small molecules that can interact and or inhibit the function and activity of these corresponding molecules as direct gene products of their gene sequences the DNA sequences of their corresponding gene contain these short matched DNA sequences from the DNA sequence of pcDNA3. The matched DNA sequences don t have to be exact matches. The matched DNA sequences can vary up to 30 40 changes.

The term siRNA1 SEQ ID 10 is a siRNA designed based on and derived from the DNA sequence of pUC19 SEQ ID 1 . This siRNA sequence matches to the human transcript of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C member 6 TRPC6 GeneID 7225 mRNA gi 19923256 NM004621.3 synonyms TRP6 FSGS2 FLJ11098. In the present description siRNA1 was used as a drug for targeting TRPC6 for the treatment of cancer. As in general the siRNA sequence can vary slightly 10 20 and even 30 40 of the exact sequence of the transcript.

The term siRNA3 SEQ ID 12 . is a siRNA designed based on and derived from the pUC19DNA sequence SEQ ID 1 . This siRNA sequence matches to the human transcript of membrane associated guanylate kinase WW and PDZ domain containing 3 MAGI3 GeneID 260425 transcript variant 2 mRNA NM152900.1 synonyms MAGI 3 MGC163281 and the transmembrane protein 182 TMEM182 GeneID 130827 mRNA NM144632.2 . In the present description siRNA3 was used as drug for targeting MAGI3 and or TMEM182 for the treatment of cancer. As in general the siRNA sequence can vary slightly 10 20 and even 30 40 of the exact sequence of the transcript.

The term siRNA2 SEQ ID 11 is a siRNA designed based on and derived from the DNA sequence of pUC19 SEQ ID 1 . The of this siRNA sequence matches to the human transcript of SH3 and PX domains 2B SH3PXD2B mRNA. SH3PXD2B GeneID 285590 mRNA NM001017995 synonyms HOFI FLJ20831 KIAA1295. In addition this sequence also mapped to more than 45 sites within flankin sequences of human genome. In the present description siRNA2 was used for targeting SH3PXD2B and all the other potential DNA sequences in the human genome for the treatment of cancer. As in general the siRNA sequence can vary 30 40 of the exact sequence of the transcript.

The term TRPC6 Nucleotide SEQ ID 2 Peptide SEQ ID 6 represents human transcript of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C member 6 TRPC6 GeneID 7225 mRNA NM004621.3 synonyms TRPC6 FSGS2 FLJ11098. In the present description TRPC6 is a target for developing anticancer treatment. TRPC6 can be targeted by any means that alter its expression levels and activities at functioning levels including but not limited to poly nucleotides such as siRNA shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense DNA oligo and dominant negative DNA vectors peptide and amino acid sequences such as peptide and antibodies and small molecule inhibitors. The TRPC6 has been previous reported as a potential target for cancer treatment but no report regarding the use of TRPC6 as a target for a combinational cancer treatment with IKK inhibitors WST1r or chemotherapy drugs to reach the synergistic effect of promoting cancer cell death. The siRNA1 sequence described above is the preferred sequence but this does not limit from other siRNA sequences and other means as described in this paragraph. As in general the siRNA sequence can vary slightly 10 20 and even 30 40 from the exact sequence of the transcript.

The term MAGI3 Nucleotide SEQ ID 4 Peptide SEQ ID 8 represents human transcript of membrane associated guanylate kinase WW and PDZ domain containing 3 MAGI3 GeneID 260425 transcript variant 2 mRNA NM152900.1 . Synonyms MAGI 3 MGC163281. MAGI 3 is localized with ZO 1 and cingulin at tight junctions in epithelial cells whereas MAGI 3 was found in E cadherin based cell cell contacts and in focal adhesion sites in primary cultured astrocytes Adamsky K Arnold K Sabanay H Peles E. Junctional protein MAGIKK interacts with receptor tyrosine phosphatase beta RPTP beta and tyrosine phosphorylated proteins. 2003 116 Pt 7 1279 89 . MAGI 3 interacts directly with LPA 2 and regulates the ability of LPA 2 to activate Erk and RhoA MAGIKK regulates LPA induced activation of Erk and RhoA Zhang H Wang D Sun H Hall R A Yun C C 2007 February 19 2 261 82006 Aug. 9 . The function of MAGI3 has been previous linked to cancer but no report regarding the use of MAGI3 as a target for a combinational cancer treatment with WST 1r IKK inhibitors or chemotherapy drugs to reach the synergistic inhibition of cancer cell growth and to promote cancer cell death. In the present description MAGI3 is a target for developing anticancer treatment. MAGI 3 can be targeted by any means that alter its expression levels and activities at functioning levels including but not limited to poly nucleotides such as siRNA shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense DNA oligo and dominant negative DNA vectors peptide and amino acid sequences such as peptide and antibodies and small molecule inhibitors. The siRNA3 sequence described above is the preferred sequence but this does not limit from other siRNA sequences and other means as described in this paragraph. As in general the siRNA sequence can vary slightly 10 20 and even 30 40 from the exact sequence of the transcript.

The term TMEM182 Nucleotide SEQ ID 5 Peptide SEQ ID 9 represents trans membrane protein 182 TMEM182 GeneID 130827 mRNA NM144632.2 . In the present description SH3PXD2B is a target for developing anticancer treatment. TMEM182 can be targeted by any means that alter its expression levels and activities at functioning levels including but not limited to poly nucleotides such as siRNA shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense DNA oligo and dominant negative DNA vectors peptide and amino acid sequences such as peptide and antibodies and small molecule inhibitors. The siRNA3 sequence described above is the preferred sequence but this does not limit from other siRNA sequences and other means as described in this paragraph. As in general the siRNA sequence can vary 10 20 and even 30 40 from the exact sequence of the transcript. TMEM182 has not been previously studied and not been linked to cancer.

The term SH3PXD2B Nucleotide SEQ ID 3 Peptide SEQ ID 7 represents SH3 and PX domains 2B adaptor protein HOFI GeneID 285590 that contains SH3 and PX domains. SH3 domains Src homology 3 domains bind to prolinerich ligands with moderate affinity and selectivity preferentially to PxxP motifs they play a role in the regulation of enzymes by intramolecular interactions changing the subcellular localization of PX PhoX homologous domain present in p47phox and p40phox. Eukaryotic domain of unknown function presents in phox proteins PLD isoforms and a PI3K isoform. SHPXD2B has not been previously studied and not been linked to cancer. In the present description SH3PXD2B is a target for developing anticancer treatment. SH3PXD2B can be targeted by any means that alter its expression levels and activities at functioning levels including but not limited to poly nucleotides such as siRNA shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense DNA oligo and dominant negative DNA vectors peptide and amino acid sequences such as peptide and antibodies and small molecule inhibitors. The siRNA2 sequence described above is the preferred sequence but this does not limit from other siRNA sequences and other means as described in this paragraph. As in general the siRNA sequence can vary 10 20 and even 30 40 from the exact sequence of the transcript.

The term C6orf108 Nucleotide SEQ ID 14 Peptide SEQ ID 15 represents human C6orf108 chromosome 6 open reading frame 108 GeneID 10591. Official Symbol C6orf108. This gene was identified on the basis of its stimulation by c Myc protein. The exact function of this gene is not known but studies in rat suggest a role in cellular proliferation and c Myc mediated transformation. In the present description C6orf108 is a target for developing anticancer treatment. C6orf108 can be targeted by any means that alter its expression levels and activities at functioning levels including but not limited to poly nucleotides such as siRNA shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense DNA oligo and dominant negative DNA vectors peptide and amino acid sequences such as peptide and antibodies and small molecule inhibitors.

The term Interferon IFN is a group of cytokines produced by leucocytes and fibroblasts. The IFN that are described herein includes all type I and type II IFNs and all the subtypes of IFN including but not limited to IFN A IFN B IFN C IFN D IFN F IFN G IFN H IFN I IFN J IFN K IFN 4b IFN WA IFN IFN and IL 6.

The term WST 1c representing a water soluble tetrazolium salt WST 1 4 3 4 Iodophenyl 2 4 nitrophenyl 2H 5 tetrazolio 1 3 benzenedilsulfonate was first described by ishiyama et al in 1996 Ishiyam M et al 1996 19 1515 20 .

The term WST 1r represents a reagent mixture comprising WST 1c and mPMS at optimized concentration and the ratio between WST 1c and mPMS for the combination treatment. The optimized concentration and molar ration of the two components may not be the same as that of the commercial cell proliferation kit 

The term mPMS 1 methoxy 5 methyl phenazinium methyl sulfate is a chemical compound acts as an electron coupling agent IEA when combined with tetrazolium salts.

The term Q1 coenzyme Q1 2 3 Dimethoxy 5 methyl 6 3 methyl 2 butenyl 1 4 benzoquinone is a chemical compound act as an IEA.

The term WST represents the collection of a class of compounds of water soluble tetrazolium salts including but not limited to WST 3 WST 4 WST 5 WST 8 WST 9 WST 10 WST 11 XTT and MSN. These compounds are also impermeable to cell plasma membrane.

The term XTT represents a water soluble tetrazolium salt in the similar class of WST 1 as well as a reagent that composed of XTT and mPMS or coenzyme Q1.

The term valid substitutes of WST 1r represents any compounds that can substitute the function of WST 1r WST 1c or the electron coupling reagent mPMS or any of the remaining components either act alone or in any type of combination among these substitutes or any type of combination with any of the component of the water soluble tetrazolium salt and IEA that comprising WST 1r to function as the WST 1r as described in this specification to reproduce the synergistic induction of cancer cell death. The term valid substitutes of WST 1r includes but not limited to all the up to date available tetrazolium salt based WSTs that include but not limited to WST 1 WST 3 WST 4 WST 5 WST 9 WST 10 AND WST 11 MTS and XTT and an IEA including mPMS and coenzyme Q1 and the combination of these tetrazolium salts with IEA comprising WST 1 mPMS WST 3 mPMS WST 4 mPMS WST 5 mPMS WST 9 mPMS WST 10 mPMS WST 11 mPMS XTT mPMS MTS mPMS WST 3 Q1 WST 4 Q1 WST 5 Q1 WST 9 Q1 WST 10 Q1 WST 11 Q1 XTT Q1 MTS Q1.

The term IKK inhibitor refers to an agent capable of inhibiting the activity of Inhibitor kappaB kinase IKK and thereby inhibiting the kinase activity of IKK and its function of activating NF kB. Therefore inhibits NF B activity. An IKK inhibitor may be a competitive noncompetitive or irreversible IKK inhibitor. A competitive IKK inhibitor is a compound or a peptide that reversibly inhibits IKK enzyme activity at the catalytic site a noncompetitive IKK Inhibitor is a compound that reversibly inhibits IKK enzyme activity at a non catalytic site and an irreversible IKK inhibitor is a compound that irreversibly destroys IKK enzyme activity by forming a covalent bond with the enzyme. The term IKK inhibitors include without limitation i compounds previously established to exhibit IKK inhibitory properties including but not limited to SPC839 Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. Anilino Pyrimidine Derivative Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute IKK inhibitor III SC 514 Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Amino imidazolecarboxamide derivative Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Ureudo thiophenecarboxamide derivatives AstraZeneca Diarylpybidine derivative Bayer Pyridooxazinone derivative Bayer Indolecarboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Benzoimidazole carboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Pyrazolo 4 3 c quinoline derivative Pharmacia Corporation Imidazolylquinoline carbxaldehyde semicarbazide derivative Tulark Inc. Pyridyl Cyanoguanidine derivate Leo Pharma IkB Kinase Inhibitor Peptide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor IV 5 p Fluorophenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor II Wedelolactone CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor VII CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor V N 3 5 Bis trifluoromethylphenyl 5 chloro 2 hydroxybenzamide IMD 0354 CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VI 5 Phenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VIII ACHP 2 Amino 6 2 cyclopropylmethoxy 6 hydroxyphenyl 4 4 piperidinyl 3 pyridinecarbonitrile CalBiochem . ii In a certain embodiment the group of IKK inhibitors may additionally include compounds discovered to have IKK inhibitory activity in accordance with the present specification and previously identified to have anti tumor activity including but not limited to PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute .

The term CK2 inhibitor represents all protein kinase casein kinase2 inhibitors. The preferred CK2 inhibitors is but not limited to Apigenin.

The term Apigenin CAS Registry Number 520 36 5 Chemical Abstracts Service Name 4H 1 benzopyran 4 one 5 7 dihydroxy 2 4 hydroxy phenyl 9CI . It is also named as Apigenine Chamomile Apigenol Spigenin and Versulin and is a member of Flavones a subclass of flavonoids. Apigenin is a multi function signal transductor modulator that reduces DNA oxidative damage inhibit the growth of human leukemia cells and induced these cells to differentiate inhibit cancer cell signal transduction and induce apoptosis act as an anti inflammatory and as an anti spasmodic or spasmolytic. Apigenin inhibits activity of NF B IKK 1 and IKK 2 protein kinase 2 CK2 mape kinase MPK hypoxia inducing factor 1 HIF vescular epithelium growth factor VEGF and some other molecules and regulatory pathways such as cell cycle and angiogenesis induce p53 activity maintaining genomic stability by holding cell cycle for mismatch repair or arrest cell cycle and induce apoptosis etc. Apigenin is know to have the effects of anti UV radiation caused oxidation and chemoprevention for cancer. The apigenin herein is also described as a representative of the subclasses of flavonoids the flavones including but not limited to tricin luteolin tangeritin 6 hydroxyflavone Baicalein Scutellarein Wogonin Diosmin Flavoxate Chrysin the glycosided forms of these flavones and other subclasses of the flavonoids with similar biological activities include but not limited to Isoflavones Flavonols Flavanones 3 Hydroxyflavanones Flavan 3 ols Anthocyanidins 3 deoxyanthocyanidin Anthocyanins Acetylated and glycosides and Tannins as well as isoflavonoids and neoflavonoids.

The term Flavonoids also called bioflavonoids also collectively know as Vitamin P and citrin are a class of plant secondary metabolites. Herein flavonoids represent all of the three ketone containing compounds flavonoid and flavonols according to IUPAC nomenclature classifications i the flavonoids derived from 2 phenylchromen 4 one 2 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure ii isoflavonoids derived from 3 phenylchromen 4 one 3 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure and iii neoflavonoids derived from 4 phenylcoumarine 4 phenyl 1 2 benzopyrone structure as well as the non ketone polyhydroxy polyphenol compounds including flavanoids flavan 3 ols and catechins. Sample compounds include but not limited to Isoflavone Biochanin A Daidzein Daidzin Formononetin Genistein Coumestrol Puerarin flavan 3 ols catechins catechin epicatechin EG epicatechin gallate EGC and epigallocatechin gallate EGCG flavonol myricetin quercetin and Kaempferol Isoflavenes phenoxodiol Anthocyanins Antirrhinin Chrysanthenin Malvin Myrtillin Oenin Primulin Protocyanin Tulipanin 3 deoxyanthocyanidin Apigeninidin Columnidin Diosmetinidin Luteolinidin Tricetinidin Anthocyanidins Aurantinidin Cyanidin Delphinidin Europinidin Luteolinidin Malvidin Pelargonidin Peonidin Petunidin Rosinidin 3 Hydroxyflavanones Dihydrokaempferol Dihydroquercetin Flavanones Eriodictyol Hesperetin Homoeriodictyol Naringenin Flavonols Fisetin Isorhamnetin Kaempferol Myricetin Pachypodol Quercetin Rhamnazin Morin and their glycoside forms.

The term HIF hypoxia inducible factor represents a family of transcription factors that response to decrease of available oxygen or hypoxia in the cellular environment. Three family members have been identified. They are HIF 1 a dimmer composed of HIF 1 and HIF 1 HIF 2 a dimmer composed of HIF 2 and HIF 2 HIF 3 a dimmer composed of HIF 3 and HIF 3 .

The term HIF inhibitors are the biological and non biological compounds that inhibit HIFs and or cellular responses to hypoxia including but not limited to 2 2 dimethybenzopyran compounds chetomin 2 methoxyestradiol 2ME2 PX 478 17 N allylamino 17 demethoxygeldanamycin 17 AAG EZN 2968 camptothecins NSC 644221 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 rapamycin and decoy oligonucleotides against HIF 1 RX 0047.

The term tNOX inhibitors represents the compounds that are capable of inhibiting the tNOX activity. The tNOX inhibits herein includes but not limited catechins catechin epicatechin EG epicatechin gallate EGC and epigallocatechin gallate EGCG and a isoflavenes analogue derivative the phenoxodiol.

The term Oxidative Phosphorylation is a process that coupling the oxidation of the protons with the synthesis of ATP which transfer and store the energy derived from glucose metabolism to the ATP as cellular energy source.

The term Uncoupler means to uncouple the cellular oxidative phosphrylation process that blocks the ATP synthesis the energy metabolism in the cell. The known unucouplers including but not limited to dinitrophenol DNP Carbonyl cyanide m chlorophenyl hydrazone CCCP Carbonyl cyanide p trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone FCCP Hindered pheniil SF6847 Salicylanilide S 13 PCP TTFB and alpha phenylhydrazono phenylacetonitrile derivatives.

The term LiCl is an inorganic salt lithedium Chloride and is used as an inhibitor of GSK3 . LiCl herein represents the class of inhibitors that inhibit GSK3 .

The term IKK represents Inhibitory kappaB Kinase which phosphorylate I B that leads to NF KAPPAB activation. Two IKK isoforms have been identified. They are IKK1 IKK and IKK2 IKK . The term NF kappaB Nuclear factor kappaB is a family of rel proteins that act as transcription factors regulating gene expression. Normally NF KAPPAB proteins forms a dimmer which also complex with an inhibitory kappa B I B molecule stay in inactive form in the cytoplasm. Upon signal activation the I B is phosphorylated by IKK and dissociate from the NF kappaB dimmer which release the NF KAPPAB to entering the nuclear for activating transcription of a special set of genes that are regulated by NF KAPPAB. The dissociated I B will be degraded by protesomes. Activation of NF kappaB favors cell proliferation and survival. NF kappaB activity has been found to associate with and contribute to carcinogenesis process tumor progression and resistance of cancer cells to chemo and radiation therapies.

The term C Jun N terminal kinases JNKs originally identified as kinases that bind and phosphosphorylate c Jun on Ser63 and Ser73 within its transcriptional activation domain are mitogen activated protein kinases which are responsive to stress stimuli such as cytokines ultraviolet irradiation heat shock and osmotic shock and are involved in T cell differentiation and apoptosis.

The term Reactive Oxygen Species ROS includes oxygen ions free radicals and peroxides both inorganic and organic. They are generally very small molecules and are highly reactive due to the presence of unpaired valence shell electrons. ROSs form as a natural byproduct of the normal metabolism of oxygen and have important roles in cell signaling. The effects of ROS on cell metabolism have been well documented in a variety of species. These include not only roles in programmed cell death and apoptosis but also positive effects such as the induction of host defence genes and mobilisation of ion transport systems. This is implicating them more frequently with roles in redox signaling or oxidative signaling.

The term Cancer Cells represents the cells in culture that were derived from human cancer or tumors which have malignant features such as lost of contact inhibition.

The term Cancer describes a diseased state in which a carcinogenic agent or agents causes the transformation of a normal cell into an abnormal cell the invasion of adjacent tissues by these abnormal cells and lymphatic or blood borne spread of malignant cells to regional lymph nodes and to distant sites i.e. metastasis.

The term Effective dose As used herein the term effective dose means that amount of a drug or pharmaceutical agent that will elicit the biological or medical response of a cell tissue system animal or human that is being sought for instance by a researcher or clinician.

The term therapeutically effective amount means any amount which as compared to a corresponding subject who has not received such amount results in improved treatment healing prevention or amelioration of a disease disorder or side effect or a decrease in the rate of advancement of a disease or disorder. The term also includes within its scope amounts effective to enhance normal physiological function.

The term Treatment of cancer describes the drug or reagents administrated to the cells or to a mammal the duration of the treatment the method used to administrate these drugs or reagents and the order and intervals of between these treatments.

The term Synergistic effect Synergize refers to a combination of two or more treatments which is more effective to produce advantageous results than the additive effects of these agents.

The term Chemotherapy Drugs Agent refers to any drugs that have cytrotoxic effect on cancer cells and are currently used as a drug for treating cancer. The drugs that were tested in this specification are listed as the following. Chemotherapy Drugs that we are mentioned in this specification were not limit to this list.

The term 5 fluorouracil 5 fluoro 2 4 1H 3H pyrimidinedione 5 FU is commercially available as fluorouracil.

The term Cis Platinum cis diamminedichloroplatinum is commercially available as PLATINOL as an injectable solution.

The term Paclitaxel is a potent anti neoplastic drug binds to the N terminal region of tubulin and promotes the formation of highly stable microtubules that resist depolymerization thus preventing normal cell division and arresting the cell cycle at the G M phase.

The term Doxorubicin 8S 10S 10 3 amino 2 3 6 trideoxy .alpha. L lyxo hexopyranosyl oxy 8 glycoloyl 7 8 9 10 tetrahydro 6 8 11 trihydroxy 1 methoxy 5 12 naphthacenedione hydrochloride is commercially available as an injectable form as RUBEX or ADRIAMYCIN RDF .

The term a therapeutically effective amount of a compound or a pharmaceutical composition refers to an amount sufficient to modulate cancer cell proliferation in culture tumor growth or metastasis in an animal especially a human including without limitation decreasing tumor growth or size or preventing formation of tumor growth in an animal. This term may also mean the effective amount s needed to cause cancer cell death or selective cancer cell death while not causing side effects in normal cells.

The term Pharmaceutically acceptable indicates approval by a regulatory agency of the Federal or a state government or listed in the U.S. Pharmacopeia or other generally recognized pharmacopoeia for use in animals and more particularly in humans.

The term a carrier refers to for example a diluent adjuvant excipient auxilliary agent or vehicle with which an active agent of the present specification is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be sterile liquids such as water and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. Water or aqueous saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions are preferably employed as carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences by E. W. Martin. It also include the transfection reagents as used for deliver of DNA and or RNA into cells either in vitro or in vivo.

The term Concurrently means 1 simultaneously in time or 2 at different times during the course of a common treatment schedule.

The term Sequentially refers to the administration of one active agent used in the method followed by administration of another active agent. After administration of one active agent the next active agent can be administered substantially immediately after the first or the next active agent can be administered after an effective time period after the first active agent the effective time period is the amount of time given for realization of maximum benefit from the administration of the first active agent.

This description provides nucleotide sequences for genes that implicate and or can be utilized as therapeutic targets for the treatment of cancer and polypeptides encoded by such sequences and antibodies and compounds reactive with such polypeptides in methods of treating a cancer and for agents effective in reducing the activity of cancer linked genes and thereby treating a cancerous condition which were not previously established for anti tumor effect s .

The disclosed nucleotide sequences are related to and derived from a DNA cloning vector pUC19 SEQ ID 1 which was discovered to synergize IKK inhibition inhibit cancer cell growth proliferation and promote cancer cell death when transfection of this vector to cancer cells was combined with or without IKK inhibitor treatment and followed by WST 1r or any of its valid substitutes treatment or in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs. This function of pUC19 has not been previously reported. Other potential DNA sequence may also include a pcDNA3 version 3.1 SEQ ID 13 and the attached blast result entitled NCBI Blast pcDNA3 Nucleotide sequence 5448 letters .

Accordingly the discovery that the anti cancer effect of pUC19 vector SEQ ID 1 was primarily resides in its DNA sequences that are mapped to transcripts and or short sequences from 15 bp up to 100 bp that flanking the genes in human genome. The human transcripts that pUC19 DNA sequences mapped to are but not limited to 1 transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C member 6 TRPC6 GeneID 7225 mRNA NM004621.3 SEQ ID 2 6 2 SH3 and PX domains 2B SH3PXD2B GeneID 285590 mRNA NM001017995 SeQ ID 3 7 3 membrane associated guanylate kinase WW and PDZ domain containing 3 MAGIKK GeneID 260425 transcript variant 2 mRNA NM152900 SeQ ID 4 8 4 the trans membrane protein 182 TMEM182 GeneID 130827 mRNA NM144632 SeQ ID 5 9 and 5 chromosome 6 open reading frame 108 C6orf108 GeneID 10591 SeQID 14 15 . The human genome sequences that pUC19 DNA sequences mapped to are listed in the attached file NCBI Blast pUC19 Human Transcripts and genome 2686 letters NCBI Blast siRNA2 Nucleotide sequence 24 letters and NCBI Blast pcDNA3 Nucleotide sequence 5448 letters .

The polynucleotide disclosed herein incorporate various polynucleotide transcripts SEQ ID NO 2 3 4 5 and 14 and thus derived amino acid sequence SEQ ID NO 6 7 8 9 and 15 from said transcripts are available as targets for treatment of cancer especially anti cancer agents including with no limitation peptide and proteins such as antibodies specific against said polypeptides peptide inhibitors small molecule inhibitor polynucleotides such as siRNAs shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense oligo and dominant negative DNA vectors. In a particular embodiment the wherein said double strand siRNAs are but not limited to siRNA1 SEQ ID 10 siRNA2 SEQ ID 11 siRNA3 SEQ ID 12 .

The polynucleotides and polypeptides as gene products used in the processes may comprise a recombinant polynucleotide or polypeptide a natural polynucleotide or polypeptide or a synthetic polynucleotide or polypeptide or a chemically modified polynucleotide or polypeptide.

The nucleotides and polypeptides of the pUC19 vector that are mapped to the human genome flanking genes in the human genome used in the processes of the present description may comprise a recombinant polynucleotide or polypeptide a natural polynucleotide or polypeptide or a synthetic polynucleotide or polypeptide.

Fragments of such polynucleotide and polypeptides as are disclosed herein may also be useful in practicing the processes of the present specification. For example a fragment derivative or analog of the polynucleotide SEQ ID 2 3 4 5 and 14 may be substituted by i any part of these sequences and or with mismatches for up to 40 of the total sequences been used for ii fused into a DNA vector or any type of carriers iii nucleotide sequences with modified nucleotides.

Fragments of such polynucleotides and polypeptides as are disclosed herein may also be useful in practicing the processes of the present specification. For example a fragment derivative or analog of the polypeptide SEQ ID NO 6 7 8 9 and 15 may be i one in which one or more of the amino acid residues are substituted with a conserved or non conserved amino acid residue more preferably a conserved amino acid residue and such substituted amino acid residue may or may not be one encoded by the genetic code or ii one in which one or more of the amino acid residues includes a substitute group or iii one in which the mature polypeptide is fused with another compound such as a compound to increase the half life of the polypeptide for example polyethylene glycol or iv one in which the additional amino acids are fused to the mature polypeptide such as a leader or secretor sequence or a sequence which is employed for purification of the mature polypeptide such as a histidine hexapeptide or a proprotein sequence. Such fragments derivatives and analogs are deemed to be within the scope of those skilled in the art from the teachings herein.

Substituting these siRNAs SEQ ID 10 11 12 as disclosed herein above may also be useful in practicing the processes of the present specification. Examples may include but not limited to i a siRNA that mapped to another part of the sequence of the coding sequence of the gene ii variations of the siRNA sequences that still capable to target the same gene and reduce it expression level iii any type of modifications of the siRNA either at the nucleotides or the whole siRNA iv put the siRNA sequence into any type of carriers such as a vector or a chemical for the delivery of the sequence.

The nucleotide sequence of the complete mRNA and open reading frame of the transcripts and amino acid sequences as discussed above can be found in the NCBI GenBank database with the Gene ID or accession numbers listed above.

The pharmaceutical compositions and the medical use as described are based at least in part on the discovery of inhibitory effect of pUC19 vector in cancer cell growth and proliferation and inducing cancer cell death when combined with IKK inhibitor WST 1r treatment as well as in combination with chemotherapeutic drugs to treat cancer cells. This inhibitory effect of pUC19 DNA transfection may be substituted by siRNA compounds or small molecule inhibitor peptide inhibitor antibody shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense oligo and antibody and dominant negative DNA vectors targeting the gene to alter its expression level the corresponding transcripts and or protein as described above in this section and at least in partial by IFN.

Cancers that may be treated using the present discovery include but are not limited to cancers of the prostate colorectum pancreas cervix stomach endometrium brain liver bladder ovary testis head neck skin including melanoma and basal carcinoma mesothelial lining esophagus breast lung including small cell lung carcinoma and non small cell carcinoma adrenal gland thyroid kidney glioblastoma mesothelioma renal cell carcinoma gastric carcinoma choriocarcinoma cutaneous basocellular carcinoma and testicular seminoma sarcoma of muscle connective tissue or bone and leukemia.

1. Inhibition of tPMET and Cell Surface Respiration in Combination with Inhibition of HIF as a Strategy for Synergizing Cancer Cell Death as a Cancer Treatment

A living cell relies on energy. Unlike normal cells that consume oxygen and generate ATP in mitochondrial cancer cells consume oxygen on cell surface through tPMET. This cellular geographic difference between cancer cells and normal cells makes the PMET a unique site for cancer specific targeting. In addition cancer cells are resistant to hypoxia due to increased levels and activities of hypoxia inducible factor HIF . Therefore blocking the PMET while inhibiting the HIF will induce synergistic and cancer specific cell death for treating cancer in a cancer patient.

One embodiment of the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising 1 a compound that is impermeable to cell plasma membrane and is capable of interfering and or blocking tMPET and or cell surface respiration such as WST 1r WST 3 or their valid substitute in combination with 2 the second compound that is capable of suppressing cellular survival signaling such as NF B activities and or cellular responses to hypoxia such as apigenin or its valid substitute HIF inhibitors IKK inhibitors flavonoids and pUC19 and its valid substitutes. Such a pharmaceutical composition may be administered in a therapeutically effective amount in optimized concentrations in pharmaceutical acceptable medium to a patient in need for the treatment of cancer.

The first compound that is composed of two functional chemical groups A an functional group that is capable of binding to and or interfering and or blocking the electron transport process of the tPMET systems blocking the coupling of oxidative phosphorylation and or inhibiting the tNOX therefore to block cell surface respiration and oxygen consumption and B another chemical group or a combination of chemical groups that make s the entire compound impermeable to cell plasma membrane and capable of blocking the said compound penetrating the cell plasma membrane and entering the cell. By integrating these functional groups into single molecule the said compound is capable of interfering inhibiting and or blocking the tPMET or the oxidative phosphorylation process or the coupling of the oxidative phosphorylation and cell surface respiration specifically on cell surface but not affecting the mitochondrial respiration in normal cells.

WST 3 represents such a class of the first compound. It contains a dinitrophenol functional group and a chemical group that is impermeable to cell plasma membrane.

The DNP is an oxidative phosphorylation uncoupler by dissolving in the inner membrane of mitochondria and forms a protonophore which caused the protons across the mitochondrial membrane leading to a rapid consumption of energy without generating ATP. By integrating the said DNP with the said second group the cell plasma impermeable group it keeps the DNP from entering the cell but can only act on the cell plasma membrane. As cancer cells respiration mainly rely on cell surface the WST 3 will only blocks the cell surface respiration of cancer cells but will not affect the oxidative phosphorylation in mitochondrial from normal cells hence the treatment will be cancer specific.

The DNP as the said first functional chemical group represents an uncoupler of oxidative phosphorylatoin and may also implicate other ways of blocking tPMET and cell surface respiration. Accordingly the said DNP can be substituted by 1 the compounds of oxidative phsphorylation decoupling agents comprising carbonyl cyanide m chloro phenyl hydrazone CCCP and Carbonyl cyanide p rifluoromethoxyl phenyl hydrozone FCCP SF 6847 salicylanilide S 13 and alpha phenylhydrazono phenylacetonitrile derivatives and 2 intermediate electron acceptor that direct interact with tPMET including with no limitation mPMS and coenzyme Q1 3 tPMET substrates such as NADH 4 the cyanic group C N such as ferricyanide and respiration inhibitors.

The chemical structure of the said second chemical group or combination of groups that keeps the compound impermeable to cell plasma membrane can be designed and or produced by a skilled person in the field. Examples include but not limited to the chemical groups that were used for modifying the tetrazolium to form the WSTs such as the chemical structures of the WST 1 WST 3 WST 4 WST 5 WST 8 WST 9 WST 10 WXST 11 XTT MSN that keep the compound impermeable to the cell plasma membrane.

Accordingly the said the first compound is selected from the available groups comprising 1 cell plasma membrane impermeable uncoupler WST 3 2 tPMET and or tNOX inhibitors including but not limited to capsaicin capsicin pepper vanilloid green tea catechin epigallocatechin 3 gallate 3 the reagents that interfere tPMET activities including WST 1r and its valid substitutes including but not limited to WST 3 mPM WST 4 mPMS WST 5 mPMS WST 9 mPMS WST 10 mPMS WST 11 mPMS XTT mPMS MSN mPMS WST 3 Coenzyme Q1 WST 4 Coenzyme Q1 WST 5 Coenzyme Q1 WST 9 Coenzyme Q1 WST 10 Coenzyme Q1 WST 11 Coenzyme Q1 XTT Coenzyme Q1 and MSN Coenzyme Q1 4 the compounds that include at least one of the functional groups as described above and are impermeable to cell plasma membrane that can be designed and produced by a skilled person in the field.

The said second compound is the one that inhibits cell hepoxia responses which when combined with the first compound results in synergistic cell death such as apigenin. The said second compound is selected from the groups comprising 1 HIF inhibitors 2 the flavonoids and its subclasses such as flavorones 3inhibitors that inhibit NF B activities such including but no limited to IKK inhibitors 4 plasmid DNA pUC19 SEQ ID No 1 and its valid substitutes including but not limited to at least one of the siRNAs derived from SEQ ID No 10 11 12 means to targeting the genes SEQ ID No 2 3 4 5 14 and their corresponding gene products SEQ ID No 6 7 8 9 15 to alter their expression levels and functional activities including but not limited to nucleotide sequences including dominant negative DNA that block the function of the corresponding gene products siRNA antisnese RNA antisense oligo peptides peptide inhibitors antibodies small molecule inhibitors.

The said apigenin is a flavone a subclass of flavonoids and is a multi function signal transduction modulator and or inhibitor to cells. Its function includes but not limited to induction of p53 activation suspend cell cycle progression for maintaining genomic stability inhibiting expression and or activities of hypoxia induced factor 1 HIF 1 casein kinase II NF B IKK and induction of generation of reactive oxygen species ROS and more.

The second compound and the valid substitutes of apigenin is selected from the groups comprising 1 At least one flavones include but not limited to nature existed flavones such as tricin Luteolin Tangeritin Chrysin 6 hydroxyflavone Baicalein Scutellarein Wogonin and synthetic flavones such as Diosmin Flavoxate additional subgroups of flavones flavonols flavannones flacanonols catechins isoflavones or

 2 at least one from other subgroups of Flavonoid Bioflavonoids and their isoforms including naturally existed artificial modified ketone isoforms and synthetic compounds including but not limited to flavonoids derived from 2 phenylchromen 4 one 2 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure examples quercetin rutin isoflavonoids derived from 3 phenylchromen 4 one 3 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure neoflavonoids derived from 4 phenylcoumarine 4 phenyl 1 2 benzopyrone structure and flavanoids as a non ketonepolyhydroxy polyphenol compounds including flavanoids flavan 3 ols and catechins. Sample compounds include but not limited to Isoflavone Biochanin A Daidzein Daidzin Formononetin Genistein Coumestrol Puerarin flavan 3 ols catechins catechin epicatechin EG epicatechin gallate EGC and epigallocatechin gallate EGCG flavonol myricetin quercetin and Kaempferol Isoflavenes phenoxodiol Anthocyanins Antirrhinin Chrysanthenin Malvin Myrtillin Oenin Primulin Protocyanin Tulipanin 3 deoxyanthocyanidin Apigeninidin Columnidin Diosmetinidin Luteolinidin Tricetinidin Anthocyanidins Aurantinidin Cyanidin Delphinidin Europinidin Luteolinidin Malvidin Pelargonidin Peonidin Petunidin Rosinidin 3 Hydroxyflavanones Dihydrokaempferol Dihydroquercetin Flavanones Eriodictyol Hesperetin Homoeriodictyol Naringenin Flavonols Fisetin Isorhamnetin Kaempferol Myricetin Pachypodol Quercetin Rhamnazin Morin and their glycoside forms or

 3 At least one HIF inhibitors and or inhibition of cellular responses to hypoxia including but not limited to 2 2 dimethybenzopyran compounds chetomin 2 methoxyestradiol 2ME2 PX 478 17 N allylamino 17 demethoxygeldanamycin 17 AAG EZN 2968 camptothecins NSC 644221 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 rapamycin and decoy oligonucleotides against HIF 1 RX 0047 or

 4 IKK inhibitors are as listed above and following embodiments include compounds which exhibits IKK inhibitory activity in pharmaceutically acceptable medium. The at least one IKK inhibitor may be selected from compounds of the group consisting of without limitation i compounds previously established to exhibit IKK inhibitory properties including but not limited to SPC839 Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. Anilino Pyrimidine Derivative Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute SC 514 Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Amino imidazolecarboxamide derivative Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Ureudo thiophenecarboxamide derivatives AstraZeneca Diarylpybidine derivative Bayer Pyridooxazinone derivative Bayer Indolecarboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Benzoimidazole carboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Pyrazolo 4 3 c quinoline derivative Pharmacia Corporation Imidazolylquinoline carbxaldehyde semicarbazide derivative Tulark Inc. Pyridyl Cyanoguanidine derivate Leo Pharma I B Kinase Inhibitor Peptide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor IV 5 p Fluorophenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor II Wedelolactone CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor VII CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor V N 3 5 Bis trifluoromethylphenyl 5 chloro 2 hydroxybenzamide IMD 0354 CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VI 5 Phenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VIII ACHP 2 Amino 6 2 cyclopropylmethoxy 6 hydroxyphenyl 4 4 piperidinyl 3 pyridinecarbonitrile CalBiochem . ii In a certain embodiment the group of IKK inhibitors may additionally include compounds discovered to have IKK inhibitory activity in accordance and previously identified as anti tumor agents including but not limited to PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute or

 5 at least one nucleotide sequences SEQ ID NO 1 10 11 12 13 and means for targeting the genes of polynucleotide sequences SEQ ID No 2 3 4 5 14 and peptide sequences SEQ ID No 6 7 8 9 15 to inhibit the expression levels and functional activities of the corresponding genes by siRNA antisense RNA antisense oligo dominant negative DNA peptide peptide inhibitors antibodies small molecule inhibitors.

2. Pharmaceutical Composition and Method of WST 3 and Apigenin Combination Treatment for Cancer Therapy

One of the best mode embodiment of the present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising 1 at least one Water soluble tetrazolium salts 3 WST 3 2 4 Iodophenyl 3 2 4 dinitrophenyl 5 2 4 disulfophenyl 2H tetrazolium sodium salt or its valid substitutes in combination with 2 at least one apigenin or its valid substitutes. Such a pharmaceutical composition may be administered in a therapeutically effective amount in optimized concentration in pharmaceutical acceptable medium to a patient in need for the treatment of cancer.

WST 3 is a water soluble tetrazoliums WST that were developed by Dojindo Inc. whose WSTs have sulfate groups added directly or indirectly to the phenyl ring to improve water solubility that also makes the compound impermeable to cell plasma membrane. Different from all other WSTs WST 3 contains a 2 4 dinitrophenol DNP group directly linked to the tetrazolium ring .

DNP a cellular metabolic poison represents a class of six manufactured chemical compounds that can dissolve in the mitochondria membrane acts as a proton ionophore an agent that can shuttle protons hydrogen ions across biological membranes where it uncouples oxidative phosphorylation by carrying protons across the mitochondrial membrane leading to a rapid consumption of energy without generating ATP. DNP defeats the proton gradient across mitochondria and chloroplast membranes collapsing the proton motive force that the cell uses to produce most of its ATP chemical energy. Instead of producing ATP the energy of the proton gradient is lost as heat. Cells counteract the lowered yields of ATP by oxidizing more stored reserves such as carbohydrates and fat. DNP has been used as weight loss treatment for burning extra fats. However it is toxic to the cells by exoughsting cell energy sources.

General structure feature of uncouplers are weak acids comprising the chemical groups Weakly Acidic Phenols benzimidazoles N phenylanthranilates salicylanilides phenylhydrazones salicylic acids acyldi thiocarbazates cumarines and aromatic amines.

The chemical structures of representative weakly acidic uncouplers that are capable of substituting the DNP are selected from the groups comprising 5 chloro 3 tert butyl 2 chloro 4 nitrosalicylanilide S 13 sodium 2 3 4 5 6 pentachlorophenolate PCP 4 5 6 7 tetrachloro 2 trifluoromethyl 1H benzimidazole TTFB Flufenamic acid 2 3 trifluoromethyl anilino benzoic acid 3 5 di tert butyl 4 hydroxy benzylidenemalononitrile SF6847 carbonyl cyanide m chloro phenyl hydrazone CCCP and Carbonyl cyanide p trifluoromethoxy phenyl hydrazone FCCP and alpha phenylhydrazono phenylacetonitrile derivatives.

The incorporating DNP into the water soluble tetrozolium salts that keeps the WST 3 impermeable to cell plasma membrane hence makes WST3 capable of mimicking the DNP effect to act on cell plasma membrane for uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation that interrupts tPMET but does not affect mitochondria in normal cells .

Thus WST 3 represents classes of compounds that comprises of 1 an active group that is capable of blocking tPMET and or oxidative phosphorylation and or the coupling process between these two processes and 2 the chemical structure that keeps the compound impermeable to cell plasma membrane. In this way such a compound shall be able to specifically block the tPMET electron transfer and or oxidative phosphorylation of ADP on cell surface hence specifically inhibit tPMET and ATP production in cancer cells.

The valid substitutes of WST 3 include but not limited to the compounds that contains the combination of the two said features including 1 the active group as described above that can block the tPMET and or oxidative phosphorylation and or the coupling of the tPMET and the oxidative phosphoryalation process 2 the chemical structure that makes the resulting compound impermeable to cell plasma membrane as described above for the first compound as described.

The said Apigenin is a flavonoid and is a multi function inhibitor to cells. Its function includes but not limited to induction of p53 activation suspend cell cycle progression to maintain genomic stability inhibiting expression and or activities of hypoxia induced factor 1 HIF 1 casein kinase II NF B induction of generation of ROS and more.

The valid substitutes of apigeninare are selected from the groups comprising at least one flavones include but not limited to nature existed flavones such as Tricin Luteolin Tangeritin Chrysin 6 hydroxyflavone Baicalein Scutellarein Wogonin and synthetic flavones such as Diosmin Flavoxate additional subgroups of flavones flavonols flavannones flacanonols catechins isoflavones at least one from other subgroups of Flavonoid or Bioflavonoids and their isoforms including naturally existed artificial modified isoforms and synthetic compounds including but not limited to flavonoids derived from 2 phenylchromen 4 one 2 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure examples quercetin rutin isoflavonoids derived from 3 phenylchromen 4 one 3 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure neoflavonoids derived from 4 phenylcoumarine 4 phenyl 1 2 benzopyrone structure and flavanoids as a non ketonepolyhydroxy polyphenol compounds as described at least one HIF inhibitors and or inhibition of cellular responses to hypoxia including but not limited to 2 2 dimethybenzopyran compounds chetomin 2 methoxyestradiol 2ME2 PX 478 17 N allylamino 17 demethoxygeldanamycin 17 AAG EZN 2968 camptothecins NSC 644221 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 rapamycin and decoy oligonucleotides against HIF 1 RX 0047.

IKK inhibitors are as listed above and following embodiments include compounds which exhibits IKK inhibitory activity in pharmaceutically acceptable medium. The at least one IKK inhibitor may be selected from compounds of the group consisting of without limitation i compounds previously established to exhibit IKK inhibitory properties including but not limited to SPC839 Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. Anilino Pyrimidine Derivative Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute SC 514 Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Amino imidazolecarboxamide derivative Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Ureudo thiophenecarboxamide derivatives AstraZeneca Diarylpybidine derivative Bayer Pyridooxazinone derivative Bayer Indolecarboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Benzoimidazole carboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Pyrazolo 4 3 c quinoline derivative Pharmacia Corporation Imidazolylquinoline carbxaldehyde semicarbazide derivative Tulark Inc. Pyridyl Cyanoguanidine derivate Leo Pharma I B Kinase Inhibitor Peptide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor IV 5 p Fluorophenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor II Wedelolactone CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor VII CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor V N 3 5 Bis trifluoromethylphenyl 5 chloro 2 hydroxybenzamide IMD 0354 CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VI 5 Phenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VIII ACHP 2 Amino 6 2 cyclopropylmethoxy 6 hydroxyphenyl 4 4 piperidinyl 3 pyridinecarbonitrile CalBiochem . ii In a certain embodiment the group of IKK inhibitors may additionally include compounds discovered to have IKK inhibitory activity in accordance and previously identified as anti tumor agents including but not limited to PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute .

 5 at least one nucleotide sequences SEQ ID NO 1 10 11 12 13 and means for targeting the genes of polynucleotide sequences SEQ ID No 2 3 4 5 14 and peptide sequences SEQ ID No 6 7 8 9 15 to inhibit the expression levels and functional activities of the corresponding genes by siRNA antisense RNA antisense oligo dominant negative DNA peptide peptide inhibitors antibodies small molecule inhibitors.

One embodiment provides methods and a treatment protocol for inducing cancer cell death and tumor suppression to treat cancer in a patient. In accordance with this method it has been discovered that the combination of WST 3 and or its valid substitutes with an apigenin and or its valid substitutes for synergistic induction of cancer cell death and suppression of tumor growth.

Accordingly cancer cells are treated with effective dose s of WST 3 and or at least one of its valid substitutes in combination with apigenin and or at least one of its valid substitutes in pharmaceutical acceptable medium for effective time period.

The valid substitutes of WST 3 include but not limited to the compounds that contains the combination of the two said features including 1 the active group as described above that can block the tPMET and or oxidative phosphorylation and or the coupling of the tPMET and the oxidative phosphoryalation process 2 the chemical structure that makes the resulting compound impermeable to cell plasma membrane as described above for the first compound as listed.

The suitable active groups that can block the tPMET and oxidative phosphorylation include but not limited to the DNP group and the cyano group.

Suitable as least one valid substitute for apigenin as listed above include but not limited to 1 any other flavonoids and their isoforms including naturally existed artificial modified isoforms and synthetic compounds any isoflevens as described 3 inhibitors to HIF 1 and or any inhibitors to cellular responses to hypoxi as described 4 inhibitors to NOXes especially tNOX as described 5 inhibitors that can mimic one or more of the predetermined apigenin effects.

It is yet another embodiment to treat cancer cells with WST 3 with at least one apigenin or any of its valid substitutes for both WST 3 and apigenin simultaneously and sequentially in any order for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

It is yet another embodiment to treat cancer cells with WST 3 with at least one IKK inhibitor or all other valid substitutes for both WST 1r and IKK inhibitor simultaneously and sequentially in any order for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

The WST 3 or at least one of its valid substitutes and apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes may be administered to cancer cells or to cancer patients concurrently separately and or sequentially in any order.

Each of the treatment agents may be administrated via oral intra peritonea injection intra muscular injection intra venous injection intra venous infusion intra artery infusion intra artery injection as well as via dermal penetration.

The treatment time of WST 3 or at least one of its valid substitutes may be between pulsed for 30 minutes to 8 hours of initial treatment or continuesly.

The treatment time of apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes may be last for 15 min to 24 hours consecutively or longer.

In other words the WST 3 or at least one of its valid substitutes may be treated first with effective dose for 30 minutes to 4 hours in the absence of apigenin then remove the WST 3 and administer the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes to the cancer cells for another 4 to 24 hours or

Alternatively administering the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes to the cancer cells for another 4 to 24 hours and then remove the administer the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes and administering the WST 3 or its valid substitutes to cancer cells for 30 minutes to 4 hours or

Alternatively administering the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes and the WST 3 or its valid substitutes to the cancer cells for 30 minutes to 4 hours then remove the treatments and administering the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes for another 4 24 hours or

Alternatively administering the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes for 24 hours then administering the WST 3 or at least one of its valid substitutes to the treatment of cancer cells for 30 minutes to 4 hours 

Alternatively administering of apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes and the WST 3 or its valid substitutes can be concurrently to the cancer cells for 30 minutes to 4 hours.

Alternatively administering of apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes and the WST 3 or its valid substitutes can be concurrently to the cancer cells continuesly.

The actual treatment doses of WST 3 and apigenin and the treatment time of these compounds can be adjusted by a physician or a skilled person.

The preferred embodiment for the treatment is to administer the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes and the WST 3 or its valid substitutes to the cancer cells for 4 hours then remove the treatments and administering the apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes for another 24 hours. This is because we have the most date for.

Cancers that may be treated using the combinatorial protocol with WST 3 or its valid substitutes in combination with apigenin or its valid substitutes are carcinomas and sarcomas include but are not limited to those carcinomas and sarcomas that may be treated using the present protocol include but are not limited to cancers of the sqoumas cell carcinoma breast prostate colorectum pancreas cervix stomach endometrium brain liver bladder ovary testis head neck skin including melanoma and basal carcinoma mesothelial lining esophagus breast muscle connective tissue lung including small cell lung carcinoma and non small cell carcinoma adrenal gland thyroid kidney or bone glioblastoma mesothelioma renal cell carcinoma gastric carcinoma sarcoma choriocarcinoma cutaneous basocellular carcinoma and testicular seminoma soft tissue sarcoma as well as lymphomas and leukemia.

Accordingly one of the embodiments of this invention provides a method for treating cancer in a patient by combination of 1 means of blocking tPMET and or uncoupling the oxidative phosphorylation on the cell plasma membrane with 2 means of inhibiting cellular responses to hypoxia HIF NOX NF B activity or mimic one or more of predetermined apigenin effects on cancer cells.

The means to block tPMET and or uncouple oxidative phosphorylation on the cell plasma membrane include but not limited to the cell plasma membrane impermeable tMPET oxidative phosphorylation uncoupler or its valid substitutes are the compounds that can inhibit the trans plasma membrane electron transfer process or the oxidative phosphorylation process or the coupling of electron transport and the oxidative phosphorylation and impermeable to cell plasma membrane.

The means of inhibiting cellular responses to hypoxia HIF NOX NF B activity or mimic one or more of predetermined apigenin effects on cancer cells including but not limited to treatment with apigenin or its valid substitutes.

The order of the treatment to cancer cells or cancer patients of the means of blocking tPMET and or oxidative phosphorylation on the cell plasma membrane with the means of inhibiting cellular responses to hypoxia HIF NOX NF B activity or mimic one or more of predetermined apigenin effects on cancer cells can be concurrently or sequentially in any order at effective doses and effective time period for the treatment.

The present invention also provides additional methods for inducing cancer cell death and suppressing tumor growth in cancer patients. In accordance with the present invention it has been discovered that the combination of a flavonoid apigenin or its valid substitutes with the WST 3 or the valid substitutes at effective concentration for synergistic induction of cancer cell death. Accordingly the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition and protocol for the treatment of cancer in a patient in need with effective dose comprising of at least one flavonoid specifically apigenin or its valid substitutes with WST 3 or at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 3 in a pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

Suitable flavonoids include but not limited to apigenin and valid substitutes of apigenin as described above in pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

The valid substitutes of apigenin include the compounds that exhibit inhibitory activity as at least one of the effects of that Apigenin does in pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

The suitable at least one of the valid substitutes for the WST 3 as noted herein above include but are not limited to the individual components that are comprises the active group as represented by DNP and the valid substitutes for tetrazolium salts that make the compound impermeable to cell plasma membrane at optimized concentrations in pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

The effective concentration of apigenin that were used may vary depending on cell type. The preferred dose is at the range of 1 100 M in vitro.

For all the above and following embodiments the effective concentration of WST 3 and the valid substitutes may vary depending on the individual composition and the effective concentration of each of the composition may or may not be the same concentration as that in the WST 3 and may vary from each of the compositions and their valid substitutes and between in vitro and in vivo usage. The preferred in vitro concentration range for in vitro treatment of WST 3 is 50 M or lower in a pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

In a specific embodiment of the present invention the administration of the WST 3 or at least one valid substitutes of WST 3 the apigenin or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin can be in any type of order. Specifically the WST 3 or at least one valid substitutes of WST 3 and the apigenin or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin may be administered to the cells or patient concurrently or sequentially. In other words the apigenin or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin or the WST 3 or the at least one substitute of WST 3 may be administered first or the WST 3 or at least one valid substitutes of WST 3 and the apigenin or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin may be administered at the same time. The preferred order of the treatment in this invention is to administer the WST 3 or the valid substitutes of WST 3 and the apigenin or the valid substitutes of apigenin simultaneously and then after removal of the WST 3 add apigenin again and keep in contact with cells for another 24 hours.

In a particular embodiment the treatment of WST 3 is in contact with cells for 15 minutes to 8 hours. The preferred time is between 30 min to 4 hours. The more preferred time is between 2 4 hours. A removal of the WST 3 or its valid substitute s from treatment is required for all the above and following embodiments to induce programmed cell death of the treated cells by this method thereof.

Moreover the present invention provides a method for the treatment of cancer by administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective dose of at least one of the WST 3 or its valid substitutes and apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes mentioned above in pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

Cancers that may be treated using the combinatorial protocol with WST 3 or its valid substitutes in combination with apigenin include but are not limited to Cancers that may be treated using the present protocol include but are not limited to colorectum pancreas cervix stomach endometrium brain liver bladder ovary testis head neck skin including melanoma and basal carcinoma mesothelial lining white esophagus breast muscle connective tissue lung including small cell lung carcinoma and non small cell carcinoma adrenal gland thyroid kidney or bone glioblastoma mesothelioma renal cell carcinoma gastric carcinoma sarcoma choriocarcinoma cutaneous basocellular carcinoma and testicular seminoma leukemia lymphoma and sarcomas lymphomas and leukemia.

3. Pharmaceutical Composition and Treatment Method of Combination of WST 1r and Apigenin for the Treatment of Cancer

One embodiment of the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising 1 WST 1r or its valid substitutes which have not previously been established as having an anticancer effect. The WST 1r has been used as a cell proliferation detection agent the Cell Proliferation WST 1. When WST 1r combined with 2 apigenin a flavonoid or its valid substitutes or an IKK inhibitor or trasnfection of Puc19 or its valid substitutes synergize the induction of cancer cell death. Such a pharmaceutical composition may be administered in a therapeutically effective amount in optimized concentration in phosphate buffered saline or any of the valid pharmaceutical acceptable medium to a patient in need for the treatment of cancer.

The afficacy of the said anticancer treatment immediate above was synergized by combination use of WST 1r and its valid substitutes which have not previously been established. The Cell Proliferation WST 1r is composed of a tetrazolium salt WST 1c WST 1 Ishiyam M et al Biol Pharm Bull 1996 19 1515 20 Berridge M V et al Biotechnology Annual Review Vol. II 127 152 2005 and an IEA mPMS Berridge M V et al Biotechnology Annual Review Vol. II 127 152 2005 diluted in phosphor buffered saline. WST 1r has also been used for measuring tPMET activity. Treatment with WST 1r enhanced cell respiration. When the WST 1r treatment was withdraw following the treatment and in combination of inhibiting HIF by apigenin or any of its valid substitutes resulted in synergized cancer cell death. In the present invention WST 1r is used as a drug for a combination treatment for cancer therapy.

In accordance the active gradient of WST 1r for the treatment of cancer can be either the WST 1c or the mPMS or the combination of the two components in optimized concentration and optimized ratio. The WST 1r that as described herein above and there after represents a group of chemical compound or mixture of combinations of a water soluble tetrazolium salt and an IEA that are capable of interacting with and or interfering to tPMET and or capable of inducing reactive oxygen species ROS generation.

The valid substitutes of WST 1c include but not limited to other WST including but not limited to WST 3 WST 4 WST 5 WST 9 WST 10 WST 11 MSN and XTT at optimized concentration in a pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

The valid substitutes of mPMS include other IEAs examples may be as but not limited to coenzyme Q1 Berridge M V et al Biotechnology Annual Review Vol. II 127 152 2005 at optimized concentration in a pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

The WST 1r includes compositions of at least one WST WST 1c and at lease one IEA mPMS in optimized concentration and ratio in a pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

The valid substitute of WST 1r includes but not limited to 1 the combination of at least one WST with at least one IEA. Examples as but not limited to WST 1 mPMS WST 3 mPMS WST 4 mPMS WST 5 mPMS WST 9 mPMS WST 10 mPMS WST 11 mPMS MSN mPMS XTT mMS WST 1 coenzyme Q1 WST 3 coenzyme Q1 WST 4 coenzyme Q1 WST 5 coenzyme Q1 WST 9 coenzyme Q1 WST 10 coenzyme Q1 WST 11 coenzyme Q1 MSN coenzyme Q1 XTT coenzyme Q1 2 at least one of the WST such as with no limitation WST 3 3 at least one IEA such as with no limitation mPMS and coenzyme Q1 at optimized concentration in a pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

The Apigenin herein represents the second molecule of this combination composition. The valid substitutes of apigenin are selected from the groups comprising 1 at least one flavone as listed above 2 at least one flavonoids or isoflavonoids as listed above 3 at least one HIF inhibitors as described above 3 at least one IKK inhibitors as described above 4 at least one nucleotide sequences SEQ ID NO 1 10 11 12 13 and means for targeting the genes of polynucleotide sequences SEQ ID No 2 3 4 5 14 and peptide sequences SEQ ID No 6 7 8 9 15 as listed above.

It is yet another embodiment to treat cancer cells with WST 1r and apigenin a flavonoids or all other valid substitutes for both WST 1r and apigenin simultaneously and sequentially in any order for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

It is yet another embodiment to treat cancer cells with WST 1r with at least one IKK inhibitor or all other valid substitutes for both WST 1r and IKK inhibitor simultaneously and sequentially in any order for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

It is yet another embodiment to treat cancer cells with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and treat with WST 1r simultaneously or sequentially in any order for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

It is yet another embodiment to treat with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and treat with electron coupling reagent of the WST 1r simultaneously or sequentially in any order for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment

It is yet another embodiment to treat with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and simultaneously or sequentially in any order treat with all the remaining subcomponent of the WST 1r for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment

It is yet another embodiment to treat with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and simultaneously or sequentially in any order treat with any valid substitution for WST 1r for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment

It is yet another embodiment to treat with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and simultaneously or sequentially in any order treat with any valid substitution for WST 1c for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment

It is yet another embodiment to treat with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and simultaneously or sequentially in any order treat with any valid substitution for electron coupling reagent of the WST 1r such as mPMS for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

It is yet another embodiment to treat with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and simultaneously or sequentially in any order treat with any valid substitution for the remaining subcomponent of the WST 1r for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

It is yet another embodiment to treat with 1 the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection or all other valid substitutes and then 2 one of the IKK or CK2 or GSK3 inhibitors and treat with WST 1r simultaneously or sequentially in any order treat with any valid substitution as any type of combination of the valid substitutes and the subcomponent of the WST 1r for each of the above and following embodiments forming a more preferred embodiment.

Moreover the present descriptions provide pharmaceutical compositions and methods for the treatment of cancer by administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the WST 1r component or its valid substitutes mentioned immediately above.

The optimized concentration may or may not be the same concentration as that of the Cell Proliferation WST 1 reagent and may vary from each of the compositions and their valid substitutes and between in vitro and in vivo usage. The preferred optimized in vitro WST 1r WST 3 mPMS WST 4 mPMS and WST 3 are the most preferred embodiment because they were the component for which we have the most valid data.

Moreover the present description provides a method for the treatment of cancer by administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of the WST 1r component or its valid substitutes mentioned immediately above.

In a particular embodiment the preferred treatment of WST 1r is in contact with cells for at lease 15 minutes or longer. The more preferred treatment time for WST 1r is between 30 min to 4 hours. The even more preferred treatment time for WST 1r is between 2 4 hours.

Each of the treatment agents may be administrated via oral intra peritonea injection intra muscular injection intra venous injection intra venous infusion intra artery infusion intra artery injection as well as via dermal penetration.

Cancers that may be treated using the present protocol include but are not limited to carcinoma derived from prostate colorectum pancreas cervix stomach endometrium brain liver bladder ovary testis head neck skin including melanoma and basal carcinoma mesothelial lining white esophagus breast muscle connective tissue lung including small cell lung carcinoma and non small cell carcinoma adrenal gland thyroid kidney or bone glioblastoma mesothelioma renal cell carcinoma gastric carcinoma sarcoma choriocarcinoma cutaneous basocellular carcinoma and testicular seminoma leukemia lymphoma and sarcomas.

The present description provides additional methods for inducing cancer cell death for the treatment of cancer for a patient in need. In accordance it has been discovered that the combination of pUC19 DNA transfection and or its valid substitutes with an IKK inhibitor plus WST 1r or its valid substitutes for synergistic inducing cancer cell death. Accordingly the present description provides a pharmaceutical composition and protocol for the treatment of cancer in a patient comprising at lease pUC19 DNA transfection or its valid substitutes in combination with at least one IKK inhibitor and WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r. Also provided is a method for treating cancer in a patient by IFN in combination with administering an effective amount of at least one IKK inhibitor and WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r. Also provided is a method for treating cancer in a patient by transfection of the cells with siRNA in combination with administering an effective amount of at least one IKK inhibitor and WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r.

The DNA transfection may be substituted by i administering a suitable dose of at least one IFN or ii transfection of at least one specific siRNA targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this description or iii chemical compounds or small molecule inhibitors that targets at least one of the target genes and or its gene products as described previously in this description or iv antibodies targeting at least one of the target genes products as described previously in this description v anti sense RNAs targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this description vi shRNAs targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this description vii anti sense oligos targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this description viii A dominant negative DNA vector targeting at least one of the target genes as described previously in this description ix peptides targeting at least one of the target genes products as described previously in this description.

The target genes are but not limited to 1 transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C member 6 TRPC6 GeneID 7225 mRNA NM004621.3 synonyms TRP6 FSGS2 FLJ11098 SEQ ID 2 6 2 SH3 and PX domains 2B SH3PXD2B mRNA . SH3PXD2B GeneID 285590 mRNA NM001017995 synonyms HOFI FLJ20831 KIAA1295 SEQ ID 3 7 3 membrane associated guanylate kinase WW and PDZ domain containing 3 MAGIKK GeneID 260425 transcript variant 2 mRNA NM152900.1 synonyms MAGI 3 MGC163281 SEQ ID 4 8 and 4 the transmembrane protein 182 TMEM182 GeneID 130827 mRNA NM144632.2 SEQ ID 5 9 .

The siRNA sequences and the targets of the siRNA sequences may also include the human genomic sequences that flanking the genes as listed in the attached file entitled NCBI Blast pUC19 Human Transcripts and genome 2686 letters NCBI Blast siRNA2 Nucleotide sequence 24 letters and NCBI Blast pcDNA3 Nucleotide sequence 5448 letters . NCBI Blast pUC19 Human Transcripts and genome.

The at least one IFN may be selected from the subfamily of type I IFN including but not limited to IFN A IFN B IFN C IFN D IFN F IFN G IFN H IFN I IFN J IFN K IFN 4b IFN WA and IFN .

The effective concentration of IFN that were used for treating cancer cells was 10 unit ml or lower for each IFN used.

The at least one IKK inhibitor may be selected from compounds of the group consisting of without limitation i compounds previously established to exhibit IKK inhibitory properties including but not limited to SPC839 Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. Anilino Pyrimidine Derivative Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute SC 514 Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Amino imidazolecarboxamide derivative Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Ureudo thiophenecarboxamide derivatives AstraZeneca Diarylpybidine derivative Bayer Pyridooxazinone derivative Bayer Indolecarboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Benzoimidazole carboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Pyrazolo 4 3 c quinoline derivative Pharmacia Corporation Imidazolylquinoline carbxaldehyde semicarbazide derivative Tulark Inc. Pyridyl Cyanoguanidine derivate Leo Pharma I B Kinase Inhibitor Peptide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor IV 5 p Fluorophenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor II Wedelolactone CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor VII CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor V N 3 5 Bis trifluoromethylphenyl 5 chloro 2 hydroxybenzamide IMD 0354 CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VI 5 Phenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VIII ACHP 2 Amino 6 2 cyclopropylmethoxy 6 hydroxyphenyl 4 4 piperidinyl 3 pyridinecarbonitrile CalBiochem . ii In a certain embodiment the group of IKK inhibitors may additionally include compounds discovered to have IKK inhibitory activity in accordance and previously identified as anti tumor agents including but not limited to PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute .

Suitable WST 1r and the at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r as noted herein above include but are not limited to to 1 the combination of at least one WST with at least one IEA. Examples as but not limited to WST 1 mPMS WST 3 mPMS WST 4 mPMS WST 5 mPMS WST 9 mPMS WST 10 mPMS WST 11 mPMS MSN mPMS XTT mMS WST 1 coenzyme Q1 WST 3 coenzyme Q1 WST 4 coenzyme Q1 WST 5 coenzyme Q1 WST 9 coenzyme Q1 WST 10 coenzyme Q1 WST 11 coenzyme Q1 MSN coenzyme Q1 XTT coenzyme Q1 2 at least one of the WST such as with no limitation WST 3 3 at least one IEA such as with no limitation mPMS and coenzyme Q1 at optimized concentration in a pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

In a specific embodiment the preferred order of treatment is to administer the pUC19 DNA transfection or its valid substitutes at least one IKK inhibitor and WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of WST 1r concurrently and or sequentially in any type of order. However the pUC19 DNA transfection or IFN treatment or siRNA transfection or its other valid substitutes at least one IKK inhibitor and the WST 1r or the at least one valid substitutes of WST 1r may be administered to the cells or patient concurrently or sequentially. In other words the pUC19 DNA transfection may be treated first the at least one IKK inhibitor may be administered first the WST 1r or the at least one substitute of WST 1r may be administered first or the pUC19 DNA transfection the at least one IKK inhibitor and the at least one substitute of WST 1r may be administered at the same time. Additionally when the pUC19 DNA transfection is replaced by siRNA transfection IFN administration or small molecule targeting the target genes as described in this description above in combination with at least one IKK inhibitor and WST 1r or at least one valid substitute of WST 1r is used the compounds may be administered in any order.

Cancers that may be treated using the present combinatorial protocol are carcinomas and sarcomas lymphomars and leukemia include but are not limited to those cancers described herein above.

However the suitable cancer cells and tumors that may be more susceptible to this treatment are those with aberrant NF B activities.

The present description also provides additional methods for inducing cancer cell death and suppressing tumor in cancer patients. In accordance it has been discovered that the combination of a flavonoid apigenin or its valid substitutes or an IKK inhibitor at effective concentration with the WST 1r or the valid substitutes at effective concentration for synergistic induction of cancer cell death. Accordingly the present description provides a pharmaceutical composition and protocol for the treatment of cancer in a patient in need with effective dose comprising of at least one flavonoid preferably apigenin or its valid substitutes or an IKK inhibitor with WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r in a pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

A removal of the treatment is required for all the above and following embodiments to induce programmed cell death of the treated cells by this method.

Suitable flavonoids include but not limited to apigenin the flavonoids and valid substitutes of apigenin as described above in pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

The valid substitutes of apigenin are selected from the groups comprising The second compound and the valid substitutes of apigenin is selected from the groups comprising 1 At least one flavones include but not limited to nature existed flavones such as Luteolin Tangeritin Chrysin 6 hydroxyflavone Baicalein Scutellarein Wogonin and synthetic flavones such as Diosmin Flavoxate additional subgroups of flavones flavonols flavannones flacanonols catechins isoflavones or 2 at least one from other subgroups of Flavonoid or Bioflavonoids and their isoforms including naturally existed artificial modified isoforms and synthetic compounds including but not limited to flavonoids derived from 2 phenylchromen 4 one 2 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure examples quercetin rutin isoflavonoids derived from 3 phenylchromen 4 one 3 phenyl 1 4 benzopyrone structure neoflavonoids derived from 4 phenylcoumarine 4 phenyl 1 2 benzopyrone structure and flavanoids as a non ketonepolyhydroxy polyphenol compounds as described above or 3 At least one HIF inhibitors and or inhibition of cellular responses to hypoxia including but not limited to 2 2 dimethybenzopyran compounds chetomin 2 methoxyestradiol 2ME2 PX 478 17 N allylamino 17 demethoxygeldanamycin 17 AAG EZN 2968 camptothecins NSC 644221 3 5 hydroxymethyl 2 furyl 1 benzylindazole YC 1 rapamycin and decoy oligonucleotides against HIF 1 RX 0047 as as described above in effective doses and in pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

Suitable IKK inhibitors are as listed above and following embodiments include any compound which exhibits IKK inhibitory activity in pharmaceutically acceptable medium. The at least one IKK inhibitor may be selected from compounds of the group consisting of without limitation i compounds previously established to exhibit IKK inhibitory properties including but not limited to SPC839 Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. Anilino Pyrimidine Derivative Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute SC 514 Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Amino imidazolecarboxamide derivative Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Ureudo thiophenecarboxamide derivatives AstraZeneca Diarylpybidine derivative Bayer Pyridooxazinone derivative Bayer Indolecarboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Benzoimidazole carboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Pyrazolo 4 3 c quinoline derivative Pharmacia Corporation Imidazolylquinoline carbxaldehyde semicarbazide derivative Tulark Inc. Pyridyl Cyanoguanidine derivate Leo Pharma I B Kinase Inhibitor Peptide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor IV 5 p Fluorophenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor II Wedelolactone CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor VII CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor V N 3 5 Bis trifluoromethylphenyl 5 chloro 2 hydroxybenzamide IMD 0354 CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VI 5 Phenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VIII ACHP 2 Amino 6 2 cyclopropylmethoxy 6 hydroxyphenyl 4 4 piperidinyl 3 pyridinecarbonitrile CalBiochem . ii In a certain embodiment the group of IKK inhibitors may additionally include compounds discovered to have IKK inhibitory activity in accordance and previously identified as anti tumor agents including but not limited to PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 IKK inhibitor III Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute .

Suitable WST 1r and the at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r as noted herein above include but are not limited to WST 1r and each of the individual components the WST 1c anf mPMS that are comprises the WST 1r the valid substitutes for WST and that for IEA of the WST 1r and all possible combination among these valid substitutes of WST 1 and mPMS or the combination of these valid substitutes and the individual component of the WST 1r the WST and IEA as described above at optimized concentrations in pharmaceutically acceptable medium.

The effective concentration of apigenin that were used may vary depending on cell type. For all the above and following embodiments the effective concentration of WST 1r and the valid substitutes may vary depending on the individual composition and the effective concentration of each of the composition may or may not be the same concentration as that in the Cell Proliferation WST 1 reagent and may vary from each of the compositions and their valid substitutes and between in vitro and in vivo usage.

In a specific embodiment the administration of the WST 1r or at least one valid substitutes of WST 1r the apigenin the flavonoid or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin or the at least one IKK inhibitor can be in any type of order. Specifically the WST 1r or at least one valid substitutes of WST 1r and the apigenin or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin or the at least one IKK inhibitor may be administered to the cells or patient concurrently or sequentially. In other words the apigenin or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin or the at least one IKK inhibitor may be administered first the WST 1r or the at least one substitute of WST 1r may be administered first or the WST 1r or at least one valid substitutes of WST 1r and the apigenin or at least one of the valid substitutes of apigenin or the at least one IKK inhibitor may be administered at the same time. The preferred order of the treatment is to administer the WST 1r or the valid substitutes of WST 1r and the apigenin or the valid substitutes of apigenin or at least one IKK inhibitor simultaneously and then after removal of the WST 1r add apigenin or IKK inhibitor again and keep in contact with cells for another 24 hours.

In a particular embodiment the in vitro treatment of WST 1r is in contact with cells for at least 15 minutes or longer The preferred time is between 30 min to 4 hours. The more preferred time is between 2 4 hours. A removal of the WST 1r or its valid substitute s from treatment is required for all the above and following embodiments to induce programmed cell death of the treated cells by this method thereof.

Moreover the present description provides a method for the treatment of cancer by administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective dose of at least one of the WST 1r or its valid substitutes and apigenin or at least one of its valid substitutes as described above in pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

Also the present description provides a method for the treatment of cancer by administering to a patient in need thereof a therapeutically effective dose of at least one of the WST 1r or its valid substitutes and at least one IKK inhibitor mentioned above in pharmaceutical acceptable medium.

Cancers that may be treated using the combinatorial protocol with WST 1r or its valid substitutes in combination with apigenin include but are not limited to those carcinomas and sarcomas that may be treated using the present protocol include but are not limited to cancers of the prostate colorectum pancreas cervix stomach endometrium brain liver bladder ovary testis head neck skin including melanoma and basal carcinoma mesothelial lining esophagus breast muscle connective tissue lung including small cell lung carcinoma and non small cell carcinoma adrenal gland thyroid kidney or bone glioblastoma mesothelioma renal cell carcinoma gastric carcinoma sarcoma choriocarcinoma cutaneous basocellular carcinoma lymphoma leukemia and testicular seminoma soft tissue sacoma.

The present description provides additional methods for synergistic inhibition of NF B activity in cancer cells. In accordance it has also been discovered that the pUC19 DNA transfection may also synergize the inhibition of NF B activity in cancer cells when both IKK1 KA and IKK2 KA kinase dead dominant negative vector were used simultaneously. This inhibitory effect can be further enhanced by the combination of additional treatment of WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes for WST 1r.

Accordingly pUC19 DNA trasnfection may be substituted by treating the cells or a mammal with i administering a suitable dose of at least one IFN or ii transfection of at least one specific siRNA or shRNA targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this specification or iii small molecule inhibitors that targets at least one of the target genes products as described previously in this specification or iv antibodies and peptide inhibitors targeting at least one of the target genes products as described previously in this specification v anti sense RNA targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this specification vi anti sense oligo targeting at least one of the target gene s transcripts as described previously in this specification in combination with the treatment of at least one IKK inhibitors that can inhibit both IKK1 and IKK2 kinase activities.

The at least one IFN may be selected from the subfamily of IFN including but not limited to IFN A IFN B IFN C IFN D IFN F IFN G IFN H IFN I IFN J IFN K IFN 4b IFN WA IFN IFN or IL 6.

The transcripts and proteins as the targets of the siRNA shRNA small molecule inhibitor peptide inhibitor antibody anti sense RNA anti sense oligo and antibody are but not limited to 1 transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily C member 6 TRPC6 SEQ ID 2 6 2 SH3 and PX domains 2B SH3PXD2B SeQ ID 3 7 3 membrane associated guanylate kinase WW and PDZ domain containing 3 MAGIKK SeQ ID 4 8 4 the transmembrane protein 182 TMEM182 SeQ ID 5 9 and 5 the C6orf108 Seq ID 14 15 .

Suitable WST 1r and the at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r as noted herein above include but are not limited to WST 1r and each of the individual tetrazolium components that are comprises the WST 1r the valid substitutes of each component of the WST 1r and any type of combination among these valid substitutes or the combination among these valid substitutes and the individual component of the WST 1 and mPMS.

The at least one IKK inhibitor may be selected from compounds of the group consisting of i compounds previously established to exhibit IKK inhibitory properties including but not limited to SPC839 Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. Anilino Pyrimidine Derivative Signal Pharmaceutical Inc. PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute SC 514 Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Amino imidazolecarboxamide derivative Smithkilne Beecham Corp. Ureudo thiophenecarboxamide derivatives AstraZeneca Diarylpybidine derivative Bayer Pyridooxazinone derivative Bayer Indolecarboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Benzoimidazole carboxamide derivative Aventis Pharma Pyrazolo 4 3 c quinoline derivative Pharmacia Corporation Imidazolylquinoline carbxaldehyde semicarbazide derivative Tulark Inc. Pyridyl Cyanoguanidine derivate Leo Pharma IkB Kinase Inhibitor Peptide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor IV 5 p Fluorophenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor II Wedelolactone CalBiochem IKK Inhibitor VII K Inhibitor VII CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor V N 3 5 Bis trifluoromethylphenyl 5 chloro 2 hydroxybenzamide IMD 0354 CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VI 5 Phenyl 2 ureido thiophene 3 carboxamide CalBiochem IKK 2 Inhibitor VIII ACHP 2 Amino 6 2 cyclopropylmethoxy 6 hydroxyphenyl 4 4 piperidinyl 3 pyridinecarbonitrile CalBiochem . In a certain embodiment the group of IKK inhibitors may additionally include compounds discovered to have IKK inhibitory activity in accordance and previously identified as anti tumor agents including but not limited to PS1145 Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. BMS 345541 Bristol Myers Squibb Pharmaceutical Research Institute . The preferred IKK inhibitors are the IKK inhibitors that can inhibit both IKK1 and IKK2 kinase activities.

The present description provides additional medical use for inducing cancer cell death and tumor suppression. In accordance it has been discovered that the combination of a GSK3 inhibitor with a CK2 inhibitor in combination with WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes for WST 1r act synergistically to suppress tumor growth. Accordingly the present description provides a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of cancer in a subset of cancer cells and or in a patient comprising at least one GSK3 inhibitor at least one CK2 inhibitor and WST 1r or the at least one of the valid substitutes for WST 1 in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also provided is a method for treating cancer in a patient by administering an effective amount of at least one GSK3 inhibitor in combination with at least one CK2 inhibitor. Suitable GSK3 inhibitors include any compound which exhibits GSK3 inhibitory activity for example LiCl. Suitable CK2 inhibitors include but are not limited to Apigenin

The at least one CK2 inhibitor may be selected from compounds of the group comprising but not limited to TBB TBBz emodin CK2 inhibitor III sigma .

Suitable WST 1r and the at least one of the valid substitutes of the WST 1r as noted herein above include but are not limited to WST 1r and each of the individual components that comprises the WST 1r the valid substitutes of each component of the WST 1r and any type of combination among these valid substitutes or the combination among these valid substitutes and the individual component of the WST 1r.

In a specific embodiment the at least one GSK3 inhibitor and at least one CK2 inhibitor may be administered to the cancer cells or patient concurrently or sequentially. In other words the at least one GSK3 inhibitor may be administered first the at least one CK2 inhibitor may be administered first or the at least one GSK3 inhibitor and the at least one CK2 inhibitor may be administered at the same time. Additionally when more than one GSK3 inhibitor and or CK2 inhibitor are used the compounds may be administered in any order.

Cancer cells that may be treated using the present combinatorial protocol include but are not limited to UM SCC 6 cells. Cancers that may be treated using the present combinational protocol include but are not limited to those cancers described herein.

The present description provides additional medical use for enhancing or synergizing the efficacy effects of chemotherapy drugs for the treatment of cancer. In accordance it has also been discovered that the Puc19 DNA transfection also synergizes suppression of tumor growth and promotes cancer cell death. Accordingly the present description provides a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of cancer in a patient comprising puc19 DNA transfection or at least one of its valid substitutes and at least one chemotherapeutic agent. This induction of cancer cell death effect may be further enhanced by additional combination with WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of WST 1r in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also provided is a method for treating cancer cells or cancer in a patient by administering an effective dose of at least one DNA transfection or at least one of the valid substitutes for DNA transfection in combination with at least one chemotherapeutic agent. In a preferred embodiment the preferred DNA for transfection is pUC19 DNA cloning vector as described previous in this application Sequence 1 .

The at least one valid substitute for the pUC19 DNA transfection may include but not limited to i administering a suitable dose of at least one IFN or ii transfection of at least one specific siRNA targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this specification or iii at least one chemical compounds or small molecule inhibitors that targets at least one of the target genes and or its gene products as described previously in this specification or iv at lease one antibody targeting at least one of the target genes products as described previously in this specification or v anti sense RNA targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this specification vi shRNA targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this specification vii anti sense oligo targeting at least one of the target transcripts as described previously in this specification viii A dominant negative DNA vector targeting at least one of the target genes as described previously in this specification ix peptides targeting at least one of the target genes products as described previously in this specification.

Suitable IFN may be selected from any IFN subfamily members which include but not limited to IFN A IFN B IFN C IFN D IFN F IFN G IFN H IFN I IFN J IFN K IFN 4b WA IFN IFN and Interlukine 6 IL 6 . In a preferred embodiment the preferred IFN are subfamily members of IFN IFN . The effective concentration of IFN is 10 unit ml or lower for each IFN.

The target genes to be targeted by the at least one chemical compounds or small molecule inhibitors at least one specific siRNA shRNA anti sense RNA anti sense oligo dominant negative DNA vector at least one peptide at lease one antibody at least one inhibitor are but not limited to 1 TRPC6 SEQ ID 2 6 2 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID 3 7 3 MAGIKK SEQ ID 4 8 4 TMEM182 SEQ ID 5 9 and 5 C6orf108 Seq ID 14 15 .

The gene products include but not limited to the nucleotide sequence of the transcripts from the gene and amino acid sequence of the protein that derived from these genes.

The siRNA and or shRNA sequences and the targets of the siRNA sequences may also include the nucleotide sequence that mapped to the human genomic sequences that flanking the genes as listed in the attached file NCBI Blast pUC19 Human Transcripts and genome 2686 letters and NCBI Blast siRNA2 Nucleotide sequence 24 letters .

Accordingly Suitable siRNAs include siRNA1 SEQ ID 10 siRNA 2 SEQ ID 11 and siRNA 3 SEQ ID 12 as described previous in this specification and all the potential siRNAs that may be derived from pUC19 DNA sequence that mapped to human genome and or transcripts in short pieces 10 100 by and more . These nucleotide sequences and their corresponding genes are listed in the attached file NCBI Blast pUC19 Human Transcripts and genome 2686 letters and NCBI Blast siRNA2 Nucleotide sequence 24 letters . As in general these siRNA sequences can be vary up to 40 from the exact sequences of the gene. Additionally the function of these siRNAs can be substituted by any of the siRNA and or shRNA that mapped to other part sequences of the corresponding target gene small molecule inhibitors peptide inhibitors antibodies anti sense RNAs anti sense oligos and dominant negative DNA vectors that can effectively target the gene products as targets which are the target of the siRNAs as described above in this paragraph and are include but not limited to 1 TRPC6 SEQ ID 2 6 2 SH3PXD2B SEQ ID 3 7 3 MAGIKK SEQ ID 4 8 4 TMEM182 SEQ ID 5 9 and 5 C6orf108 Seq ID 14 15 .

The WST 1r or at least one of the valid substitutes of WST 1r as noted herein above include but are not limited to WST 1r and each of the individual components that are comprises the WST 1r the valid substitutes of each component of the WST 1r and any type of combination among these valid substitutes or the combination among these valid substitutes and the individual component of the WST 1r.

Suitable chemotherapeutic agents include but are not limited to paclitaxel Taxol cisplatin docetaxol carboplatin vincristine vinblastine methotrexate cyclophosphamide CPT 11 5 fluorouracil 5 FU gemcitabine estramustine carmustine adriamycin doxorubicin etoposide arsenic trioxide irinotecan and epothilone derivatives. The preferred chemotherapeutic agents are paclitaxel Taxol cisplatin 5 fluorouracil 5 FU and

In a specific embodiment the preferred order is to transfect the pUC19 DNA or at least one of its valid substitutes first and then administering the chemotherapy drugs after the transfection of pUC19DNA. However the pUC19 DNA transfection or at least one of its valid substitutes and administering the chemotherapy drugs may be administered to the cancer cells or patient concurrently or sequentially. In other words the pUC19 DNA transfection may be administered first the chemotherapy drugs may be administered first.

Cancers that may be treated using the present combinatorial protocol include but are not limited to those carcinomas and sarcomas set forth herein above.

Combined Treatment of Apigenin and Stattic Synergistic Inhibition of Cal27 Cell Survival And Induced Cell Death.

In addition to NF B Signal transducer and activator of transcription Stat is another family of transcription factors. They mediate extra cellular signals stimulated by cytokines and growth factors translocation to the cell nucleus where they act as transcription activators. These proteins mediate the expression of a variety of genes in response to cell stimuli and thus play a key role in many cellular processes such as cell growth and apoptosis. Stat such as STAT3 play an important role in cancer cells survival and proliferation. However Stat Inhibitors or IKK inhibitors alone showed little inhibiting effect on cancer cell survival. Evidence showed that these two transcription factors interact with each other and to functionally cooperate with each other. In addition NF B and STAT binding sites linked together to form promoter modules. Combination of Stattic a Stat inhibitor with either IKK inhibitor or apigenin results in synergetic induction of cell death. This combination provides a method of treating cancer.

The present invention provides additional methods for inducing cancer cell death and tumor suppression. In accordance with the present invention it has been discovered that the combination of a IKK inhibitor or a CK2 inhibitor in combination with Stat inhibitor stattic or at least one of the valid substitutes for stattic act synergistically to induce cancer cell death and to suppress tumor growth. Accordingly the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for the treatment of cancer in a subset of cancer cells and or in a patient comprising at least one IKK inhibitor or at least one CK2 inhibitor and stattic or the at least one of the valid substitutes for stattic in a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Also provided is a method for treating cancer in a patient by administering an effective amount of at least one IKK inhibitor or at least one CK2 inhibitor in combination with stattic or valid substitutes. Suitable IKK inhibitors are as listed above. Suitable CK2 inhibitors include but are not limited to Apigenin. Suitable Stat inhibitors are the inhibitors that inhibit stat phosphorylation activation and nuclear translocation include but not limited to stattic. The administration of the IKK inhibitors or the CK2 inhibitors and the stattic may be administered in any order. The preferred order is to administrate the inhibitors concurrently.

From the description above a number of advantages of the embodiments of this cancer treatment protocol and composition become evident 

This combination treatment targeting the tPMET and the HIF or cell responses to hypoxia is a synergistic combination strategy that block cancer cell respiration through the tPMET at cell surface while inhibit cancer cell capability of tolerating hypoxia. This combination did not inhibit cancer cell growth but induced synergistic cancer specific cell death. This combination composition and method represent a new concept and principle for a new avenue of cancer treatment strategy for a synergistic cancer specific treatment and anti cancer drug development.

The chemical structure of WST 3 represents a model of a class of compounds that is capable of interfering the tPMET and restricts its activity on cell surface without affecting the mitochondrial in the normal cells. As cancer cells rely on cell surface ixygen consumption the WST 3 represents the model of compounds that selectively affect cancer cells only.

The use of WST 1r also represents a novel strategy that incorporate cellular response to the treatemtn into the treatment protocol by inducing cancer cell tPMET followed by withdraw to induce cancer cells death.

This combination treatment is different from conventional chemotherapy that inhibits cancer cell growth instead it directly induce cancer cell death which made it a more efficient cancer treatment by selectively killing cancer cells.

In summary this present invention provides a new concept of combinational treatment strategy for anticancer drug development. This combination treatment will selectively block the cell surface respiration of cancer cell while inhibiting their capability to response to hypoxia therefor to inhibit cancer cell respiration and hence the energy metabolism from two direction to obtain synergistic inducible cancer cell death. In addition these treatments utilize non cytotoxic compounds result in synergistic cancer specific cell death which provides a new avenue for anti cancer drug development and for cancer treatment.

Although the description above contains much specificity these should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments but as merely providing illustrations of some of the presently preferred embodiments. For example the WST 3 and the apigenin each represents classes of chemical compounds with similar function. Also the combination of WST 3 and apigenin represents a new strategy and a new avenue of cancer drug development by targeting tPMET in combination with inhibition of cellular responses to hypoxia and some other related process.

Thus the scope of the embodiments should be determined by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the examples given.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be administered by any suitable route for example by injection by intra vaneus infusion by intra artery infusion by oral pulmonary nasal transdermal or other methods of administration. In general pharmaceutical compositions of the present specification comprise among other things pharmaceutically acceptable diluents preservatives solubilizers emulsifiers adjuvants and or carriers. Such compositions can include diluents of various buffer content e.g. Tris HCl acetate phosphate pH and ionic strength and additives such as detergents and solubilizing agents e.g. Tween 80 Polysorbate 80 anti oxidants e.g. ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite preservatives e.g. Thimersol benzyl alcohol and bulking substances e.g. lactose mannitol . The compositions can be incorporated into particulate preparations of polymeric compounds such as polylactic acid polyglycolic acid etc. or into liposomes. Such compositions may influence the physical state stability rate of in vivo release and rate of in vivo clearance of components of a pharmaceutical compositions. See e.g. Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 18th Ed. 1990 Mack Publishing Co. Easton Pa. 18042 pages 1435 1712 which are herein incorporated by reference. The pharmaceutical compositions can be prepared for example in liquid form or can be in dried powder form e.g. lyophilized . Particular methods of administering pharmaceutical compositions are described hereinabove.

In yet another embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions can be delivered in a controlled release system such as using an intravenous infusion an implantable osmotic pump a transdermal patch liposomes or other modes of administration. In a particular embodiment a pump may be used see Langer supra Sefton CRC Crit. Ref Biomed. Eng. 1987 14 201 Buchwald et al. Surgery 1980 88 507 Saudek et al. N. Engl. J. Med. 1989 321 574 . In another embodiment polymeric materials may be employed see Medical Applications of Controlled Release Langer and Wise eds. CRC Press Boca Raton Fla. 1974 Controlled Drug Bioavailability Drug Product Design and Performance Smolen and Ball eds. Wiley New York 1984 Ranger and Peppas J. Macromol. Sci. Rev. Macromol. Chem. 1983 23 61 see also Levy et al. Science 1985 228 190 During et al. Ann. Neurol. 1989 25 351 Howard et al. J. Neurosurg. 1989 71 105 . In yet another embodiment a controlled release system can be placed in proximity of the target tissues of the animal thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose see e.g. Goodson in Medical Applications of Controlled Release supra 1984 vol. 2 pp. 115 138 . In particular a controlled release device can be introduced into an animal in proximity of the site of inappropriate immune activation or a tumor. Other controlled release systems are discussed in the review by Langer Science 1990 249 1527 1533 .

The conclusion that this is programmed cell death is formed by the observation that normal cells had no cytotoxic reaction and further that a over 90 kill rate is more than substantial evidence of a significant find. Therein because this specification touches a programmed cancer cell death pathway that was prior untouched or in the alternative that this invention may activates a known pathway or a novel unknown pathway in a manner not able to be duplicated by other inventions the very sequence of events defined in this specification activates programmed cell death in the cancer cells and as such presents a valid model for further study. In other words through processes known to those of skill the very core molecular event leading to the over 90 kill rate can be explored because we have the working model to induce such events. Therein the invention is also claimed as an important model for further research study and pathway illumination elucidation.

Although above and below I have shown specific experimentation and data one of skill in the art of cancer preclinical and clinical protocol structure execution and analysis will recognize upon reading this document through variation of the dosages of the named components the order in which they are applied and the time frames between applications valid substitutions of the named components there are a myriad of variable applications which may result in the same or similar outcome. To the extent that these variables can be applied to any cancer in any mammal the inventor notes than nothing contained within this document or any subsequent documentation provided by the inventor is intended to be limiting. The inventor also notes that this specification is intended to work alone and reduce cytotoxic effects of traditional cancer therapy such as chemotherapy and radiation however nothing herein is intended to limit the use of this specification to the extent that chemotherapeutic and radiation combination therapies can be utilized in combination with this specification. Further that the use of chemotherapy and radiation therapy combinations in conjunction with this specification may reduce the cytotoxicity of the chemotherapy or radiation therapy because the dosages of the chemotherapy and radiation therapy can be reduced when used in combination with this specification. And finally that the named specification may further sensitize cancer cells selectively over normal cells such that subsequent application of chemotherapy and radiation as well as combination chemo radiation therapies will work more efficiently again allowing for the reduction of chemotherapy and radiation and combination chemo radiation dosages.

The foregoing description of the present specification provides illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the specifications to the precise one disclosed. Modifications and variations consistent with the above teachings may be acquired from practice of the specification. Thus it is noted that the scope of the invention is defined by the claims and their equivalents.

The present specification will now be illustrated in more detail in the following examples. It is to be understood that these examples serve only to describe the specific embodiments of the present specification but do not in any way intend to limit the scope of the claims. It is of further note to one of skill that unique sequence data has been provided in this application. To the extent that each of these new sequence data represent novel targets for the development of cancer therapeutics nothing contained herein is intended to be limiting. Said targets are noted as potential targets for further development under this application using the above methods and other methods known to those of skill. Although not mentioned in this specification elsewhere use of radiation as a distinct step or other small molecule drugs DNA RNA siRNA and all other methods for cancer therapy known to those of skill are noted as possible adjuvant to these protocols.

Overview Normally NF kappaB activity is measured by reporter assay electronic gel mobility shift assay and more recently DNA binding ELISA. However all of these methods employ exogenous DNA oligo or constructs carrying consensus NF kappaB response element sequences for measuring specific NF KAPPAB DNA binding and transcriptional activity. Additionally the NF KAPPAB consensus response element is different from the real promoter sequences that also need complex interaction with multiple molecules and may introduce artificial effects.

Method UM SCC 6 cells were transfected with effectene Qiagen i 20 dominant negative IKK1 KA K44A and 80 pUC19 ii 20 dominant negative IKK2 KA K44A and 80 pUC19 iii 20 dominant negative IKK1 KA K44A 20 dominant negative IKK2 KA K44A and 60 pUC19 iv 20 pcDNA3 and 80 pUC19 as negative control for 72 hours. At the end of transfection cells were lysed with lysis solution from GeneSpectra kit Panomics . The I B p100 CSNK2B mRNA levels were measured with the GeneSpectra kit. The expression levels of each transcript from different transfections were normalized by their 18sRNA level as measured at the same time.

Previously we observed partial inhibition of NF KAPPAB reporter activity by 50 caused by cotransfection of kinase dead K44A IKK1 or K44A IKK2 into UM SCC 6 cells and other head and neck squamars carcinoma cells. By measuring expression levels of endogenous NF KAPPAB downstream gene I B p100 and CK2 as an indicator of NF KAPPAB activity we observed little inhibitory effect on NF KAPPAB activity from K44A IKK1 transfected cells 20 and no inhibitory effect from K44A IKK2 transfected cells. In contrast when inhibiting both IKK1 and IKK2 molecules by cotransfecting dominant negative K44A IKK1 and K44A IKK2 simultaneously we observed 90 inhibition at all three target gene expression levels that we measured A and B . These data showed synergistic inhibitory effect of combination of K44A IKK1 and K44A IKK2 on constitutive NF KAPPAB activity in these cancer cells suggesting potential interchangeable function between these two IKKs.

In addition to the inhibition of NF KAPPAB activity cell death associated with cotransfection of K44A IKK1 and K44A IKK into UM SCC 6 cells . 48 hours after tranfection K44A IKK1 and K44A IKK2 co transfected cells showed 85 reduction in cell number WST 1 no and dramatic cell death . The data represents the average of 7 sets of duplicates. This result indicates that inhibition of NF KAPPAB activity does lead to cancer cell death and that this can be reached only by inhibiting both IKK1 and IKK2 simultaneously. In addition adding tetrazolium dye WST 1r further enhanced cancer cell death caused by double inhibition of IKKs WST 1 yes . Following inhibition of both IKK1 and IKK2 treating cells with WST 1r further enhance cell death WST 1 yes . In about 80 reduction of cell number in K44A IKK1 and K44A IKK2 cotransfected cells and over 95 reduction when these cells were treated with WST 1 in addition to cotransfection of K44A IKK1 and K44A IKK . Data represents an average of 7 sets of duplicates. shows cell death from double transfected cells partial cell death from K44A IKK1 or K44A IKK2 single transfected cells and further enhanced cell death by adding WST 1r treatment to K44A IKK1 and K44A IKK2 double trasfected cells.

WST 1 promote HT1080 human sarcoma cell death by combination with DNA Transfection and IKK Inhibitor Treatment

Methods HT1080 cells were cultured in 96 well plates and transfected with one of the pUC19 pcDNA3 IKK1 KA IKK1 KA PUC19 or pcDNA3 pUC19 DNA vectors for 24 hours followed with treatment of IKK Inhibitor IIII at 3 30 M for another 24 hours and then treated with 10 WST 1 for 4 hours and cultured overnight before detection. The same treatments of cells were measured at 24 48 and 96 hours after WST 1 treatment. Cell viability was measured by Cell Count Kit 8 CCK8 .

Data showed 1 significant IKK inhibitor III dose dependent induction of cell death from the cells that were transfected with any of the DNA vectors at 24 48 and 96 hour after WST 1 treatment comparing to non transfected control cells but no significant difference between pUC19 vector only from IKK1 KA vector 2 further induced cell death and decreased cell survival detected from the cells that were treated with WST 1 at 24 48 and 96 hours after WST 1 treatment comparing to those with no WST 1 treated cells 3 at 96 hours after the treatment of WST 1 all the non transfected cells grow back to the same amount as the untreated control while partial recovery of the cells from no WST 1 treated but transfected cells and 4 at 96 hours after all the treatment only the cells transfected and also treated with WST 1 remained died with no recovery which indicated the combination of either IKK inhibitor and or DNA transfection with the WST 1 treatment further synergize these cancer cells to 100 death. The difference in the absorption at 24 hour after WST 1 treatment were caused in partial by decreased response from the WST 1 treated cells to the CCK8 detection. This effect reduced in 48 hours after the removal of WST 1 treatment and diminished at 96 hours after the removal of WST 1 treatment. Morphology examination of the cells found that at 24 hours after the WST 1 treatment majority of the 30 M IIKK inhibitor III treated cells died after the treatment. However the survival cells that were not treated with WST 1 grow back up again. Conversely the deaths of all the cells that were transfected with DNA vectors and with the same IKK inhibitor III treatment and treated with WST 1 were 100 . These data demonstrate the effect of WST 1 enhances the IKK inhibitor III induce cancer cell death effect and promote cell death of these cells and that pUC19 vector also contribute to the combined effect of inducing cell death.

Overview Our previous data suggest that DNA transfection plays a role in the triple combination treatment for synergistic cancer cell death. Moreover Interferon IFN responses have been reported to be involved in transfection effects. We examined whether IFN can be a substitute for the DNA transfection effect for in vivo treatment.

Methods HT1080 cells were cultured in 96 well plates and treated with IFN IKK inhibitor III and WST 1 sequentially. Each set of the cells were treated with one of the IFN members at the concentration ranging from 2 1000 units ml for 24 hours followed by IKK inhibitor III treatment at concentration of 3 30 M for another 24 hours and then with WST 1 for 4 hours and cultured overnight before detection. Cell viability was measured by CCK8 kit at 24 and 48 hours after WST 1 treatment. Total of 15 IFNs were tested. They arewer IFN A IFN B IFN C IFN D IFN F IFN G IFN H IFN I IFN J IFN K IFN 4b and IFN WA IFN IFN and IL 6.

Representative data showed IFN dose dependent and IKK Inhibitor III dependent decrease of cell growth and enhancement of cell death comparing to that without IFN treatment. Comparing to pUC19 DNA transfection which synergized the inhibition of cell growth and promotes cell death IFN reached 80 90 inhibitory effects caused by pUC19 DNA transfection when combined with 30 M BMS345541 and WST 1 at 48 hours after WST 1 treatment.

Overview WST 1 was first described by ishiyama et al in 1996 Ishiyam M et al Biol Pharm Bull 1996 19 1515 20 . It is a cell proliferation detection reagent manufactured by Roche. WST 1 is composed of tetrazolium salt WST 1 4 3 4 Iodophenyl 2 4 nitrophenyl 2H 5 tetrazolio 1 3 benzenedilsulfonate and an electron coupling reagent diluted in phosphate buffered saline. WST 1 can be cleaved by mitochondrial succinate tetrazolium reductase system. This cleavage has been used as the basis of the measurement of live cell. However WST 1 has been found impermeable to cell membrane and their reduction occurs at the cell surface or at the level of the plasma membrane via trans plasma membrane electron transport Berridge MV et al Biotechnol Annu Rev 2005 11 127052 . Alternatively WST 1 can be reduced by cell surface NAD P H Oxidase Berridge M V et al Antioxid Redox Signal 2000 2 231 42 Scalett D J et al Biofactors 2004 20 199 206 In the present invention WST 1 has been found to synergize the inhibitory effect on cell growth and promote cancer cell death when it is used in combination with at least one of the DNA transfection or IFN or siRNA transfection and one of the IKK or combination of CK2 and GSK3 inhibitors. Theoretically it has been proposed that the balance between JNK activation and NF KAPPAB activity determines cell faith to death or a live. Prolonged JNK activation induces programmed cell death. Generation of ROS induces JNK activation while NF KAPPAB activity leads to suppress ROS level Luo J L et al J. Clin. Invest 2005 115 2625 32 Shen H M et al Free Radical Biology Medicine 2006 40 928 939 . The present invention has found that WST 1 induces ROS production in these cancer cells and promotes cell death.

Methods HT1080 cells were cultured in cover slices and transfected with pUC19 and treated with IKK inhibitor III in sequential. Following these treatment the cells thus treated were either labeled with CM H2 DCFDA a fluorescence dye that can labeling ROS in cells and then treated with WST 1 for 30 minutes or treated with WST 1 for 2 hours and then labeled with CM H2 DCFDA . The results were recorded by a digital camera with Spotlight software. Manuel exposure levels were used to maintain the same exposure level for comparison.

In both experiments significant WST 1 induced ROS generation has been documented A and B . In we also observed IKK inhibitor III dose dependent labeled ROS from the cells that were transfected with pUC19 and treated with IKK but with no exposure to WST 1. This may suggest that IKK Inhibitor III may also induce ROS generation.

Overview LiCl is known to inhibit GSK3 activity and Apigenin is a multi signal transducer that inhibits multiple signaling processes including protein kinase 2 CK2 . The activity of both GSK3 and CK2 are known to enhance constitutive NF B activity. This test was intended to examine whether combination of LiCl and Apigenin can substitute DNA transfection for the synergistic inhibitory effect and induction of cancer cell death.

Methods UM SCC 6 cells were cultured in 96 well plates and treated with LiCl 1 3 10 30 100 mM and Apigenin 1 3 10 30 and 100 M in different combination of their doses for 24 hours followed by WST 1 treatment. Cell viability was measured with CCK8 kit.

Data showed that combination of LiCl and Apigenin dose dependent decrease of cell growth and increased cell death comparing to untreated control cells. 10 M AP and 100 mM LiCl showed synergistic increase of cell death . The subsequent treatment of WST 1 further enhanced this inhibitory effect .

UM SCC 6 cells were transfected with pUC19 DNA pcDNA3 pUC19 pcDNA3 IKK1 KA pUC19 IKK2 KA pUC19 and IKK1 KA IKK2 KA pUC19 IKK1 KA pcDNA3 IKK2 KA pcDNA3 or IKK1 KA IKK2 KA pcDNA3 for 48 hours and treated with variable doses of 5 FU or Cis Platinum for 96 or 72 hours respectively. Cell viabilities were measured in 72 and 96 hours respectively after drug treatment. Data showed that pUC19 transfected cells showed the strongest inhibitory effects on cell growth.

HT1080 Cells were transfected with pUC19 DNA pcDNA3 pUC19 pcDNA3 IKK1 KA pUC19 IKK2 KA pUC19 and IKK1 KA IKK2 KA pUC19 IKK1 KA pcDNA3 IKK2 KA pcDNA3 or IKK1 KA IKK2 KA pcDNA3 for 48 hours before the treatment of chemotherapy drugs at various doses. Cell viability was measured in 72 and 96 hours after drug treatment.

Drug treatment Cis Platinum 30 ng ml 3 g ml Paclitaxel 1 nM 10 M 5 FU 50 nM 500 M data not shown Doxorubicin 30 nM 3.3 M data not shown .

Variable enhancement and synergistic effects were shown by the transfection of these DNA vectors. pUC19 DNA alone transfection showed the strongest synergistic efficacy effect to this chemotherapy drugs comparing to other DNA vectors tested. IC50 of the drugs were lowered approximately 10 fold when combining pUC19 DNA transfected cells to that of untransfected cells of drug treatment IC50 of Cis Platinum from HT1080 cells and UM SCC 6 cells untransfecte control 3 g ml pUC19 transfected cells 0.3 g ml and 1 g ml respectively IC50 of 5 FU from untransfected UM SCC6 cells was more than 1 mM but 200 M from pUC19 transfected cells IC50 of texal from pUC19 transfected HT1080 cells was 20 nM while untransfected did not show any response upto 100 nM. . Furthermore at 96 hours after of the cis Platinum or palitaxel treatment untransfected cells recovered and grown up while the cell death from DNA transfected cells especially pUC19 vector alone transfected cells were irreversible meaning they were 100 died. These data suggest that these chemotherapy drugs inhibit cancer cell growth but may not kill these cells. The combination of transfection of pUC19 DNA promote cell to death.

Method UM SCC6 MDA MB 231 Cal27 HT1080 T294 B6 5 and A431 cells were treated with 3 or 10 of WST 1r or 10 30 or 100 M apigenin or combination of variable concentrations of WST 1r with apigenin in parallel with untreated control cells and DMSO control for 4 hours then the treatments were removed and the cells thus treated were changed to normal growth medium and maintained in culture for another 24 hours. DMSO was used as vehicle control. Cell viabilities were measured by CCK8 Kit and normalized to of untreated control calls.

Result DMSO treated cells of every tested cell line showed same levels of cell viability as untreated control cells data not shown .

A UM SCC6 MDA MB 231 Cal27 HT1080 T294 B6 5 and A431 cells were treated with 3 of WST 1r or 100 M apigenin or combination of 3 WST 1r with 100 M apigenin in parallel with untreated control cells. Date showed that the combination of WST 1r and apigenin induced 75 to 95 cell death of all seven tested cancer cell lines comparing to untreated controls .

B E Data showed both WST 1r and apigenin dose dependent cell death and synergized cell death effect when combining 3 WST 1r with 100 M apigenin or 10 WST 1r with 30 M apigenin. B C WST 1r Dose Response of MA MB 231 cells B and A431 cells C . The IC50 of WST 1r in the presence of 100 M apigenin were 1 for both MDA MB231 cells and A431 cells while treatment of apigein alone showed little effect on cell survival. D E apigenin Dose Response of MDA MB 231 cells and A431 cells. The apigenin IC50 in the presence of 10 WST 1r were 10 M for both cell lines B E .

Comparison of cell responses to modified WST 1r and Apigenin combination treatment between cancer cells and non cancer cells. UM SCC6 Cal27 human head and neck cancer cell lines and primary cultured human bronchia keratinocytes HEKa as labeled were treated with 10 modified WST 1r mPMS 20 M WST 1c 1 mM with WST 1r 10 or without WST 1r 0 10 modified WST 1r in combination with 0 Apigenin 0 30 Apigenin 30 or 100 Apigenin 100 M Apigenin for 4 hours then changed to apigenin in the corresponding concentrations for another 24 hours. Data showed that each of the WST 1r and the Apigenin single agent treatment had little effect on cell viabilities . Combination of WST 1r with 100 M Apigenin resulted in synergistic cell death in both UM SCC6 and Cal27 cancer cell lines but not in paired non cancer primary cultured HEKa cells . These data demonstrated the cancer cell specificity of this combination treatment.

Time Course and Dose Response of WST 1r and Dose Response of Apigenin Involved in the Combination Treatment of WST 1r with Apigenin

Methods Cal27 A HT1080 B and UM SCC6 C cells were treated with variable concentration 1 3 and 10 of WST 1r as indicated for 0.5 1 2 and 4 hours in combination with varible doses of apigenin 3 10 30 and 100 M as indicated and then treated with the same concentration of apigenin for another 24 hours. Cell viabilities were measured by CCK8 Kit and normalized as of that of untreated control calls.

Results Data showed WST 1r time and dose dependent and apigenin dose dependent cell death from all three tested cell lines . Synergetic induction of cell death over 80 occurred at 10 WST 1r treatment for 0.5 hour in combination with 100 M apigeinin treated Cal27 and UM SCC6 cells C and at 3 WST 1r treatment for 1 hour in combination with 100 M apigeinin treated HT1080 cells . By increasing WST 1r treatment time 80 90 cell death can be reached at 30 M apigenin in combination with 4 hour 10 WST 1r treatment from HT1080 and UM SCC6 cells and at 30 M apigenin in combination with 1 hour 10 WST 1r treatment from Cal 27 cells . Ap apigenin uM M 

Method SK Mel 5 and T294 human melanoma cells were treated with WST 1r at 1 and 3 final concentration respectively as indicated for 4 hours then removed WST 1r by changing to normal growth medium and added IKK inhibitor III for another 24 hours. After 24 hours treatment with 3 M and 10 M IKK inhibitor III respectively as indicated cells were changed to grow in normal growth medium for 48 hours before measuring cell viability by CCK8 Kit.

Result Both SK mel 5 cells and T294 cells showed WST 1r and IKK inhibitor BMS345541 dose dependent increase of cell deaths. Combination of 3 WST 1r and 10 M BMS345541 further synergized the induction of cell . Whereas the non cancer primary cultured human keratinocytes were resistant to this combination treatment .

Effects of Treatment Order of WST 1r and IKK Inhibitor III BMS345541 on Inducing Human Melanoma Cell Death

Method T294 cells were treated with 3 of WST 1r in combination with 3 or 10 M BMS345541 respectively in different order as indicated. Cell viabilities were measured by CCK8 Kit and normalized as of that of untreated control calls. Control Cells were either untreated or treated with BMS345541 only at the indicated doses for 24 hours and then changed to normal growth medium for another 24 hours before measuring cell viability. B W Cells treated with BMS345541only at the indicated doses for 24 hours and then added WST 1r at 3 final concentration for 4 hours then removing the treatment and changed to normal growth medium for another 24 hours before measuring cell viability. W B Cells treated with 3 WST 1r and BMS345541 at the indicated doses for 4 hours and then removing the treatment and changed to normal growth medium for another 24 hours before measuring cell viability. W B B Cells treated with 3 WST 1r and BMS345541 at the indicated doses for 4 hours and then removing the treatment and added BMS345541 at the indicated doses in normal growth medium for another 24 hours before measuring cell viability. W B Cells treated with 3 WST 1r for 4 hours and then removing the treatment and added IKK BMS345541 at the indicated doses in normal growth medium for another 24 hours before measuring cell viability.

Method UM SCC6 cells were treated with WST 1r and apigenin at the indicated doses for 4 hours and then phosphorylated JNK and total JNK were measured in parallel with FACE Kit Qiogen . The resulting data were normalized to total cell number measured by crystal violet staining The phosphorylated JNK from each measurement were normalized to the ratio of phosphorylated JNK over total JNK values.

Result Data showed WST 1r and apigenin dose dependent induction of phosphorylation of JNK in UM SCC6 cells . Combination of WST 1r and apigenin further increased JNK phosphorylation. The most significant increase of JNK phosphorylation from UM SCC6 cells occurred at the treatment of 100 M apigenin in combination with 3 or 10 WST 1r. This result supports the hypotheses that the combination of WST 1r with apigenin treatment induced JNK activation.

Dose Response of ROS Generation after Combination Treatment of WST 1r and Apigenin and IKK Inhibitor III

Method UM SCC6 cells were labeled with 10 M CM H2 DCFDA for 15 minutes and then treated with WST 1r or CCK8 at the indicated amounts in combination with variable doses of apigenin A or IKK Inhibitor III B for 4 hours. Fluorescence at Ex485 Em535 were measured for detecting ROS generation that labeled by the CM H2 DCFDA.

Result Data showed WST 1r dose dependent induction of ROS generation and B . On the other hand CCK8 induced low and very limited level of ROS generation with no relation to the CCK8 treatment dose at 4 hours after the treatment. Apigenin alone showed no effect on ROS generation. However combination of apigenin with 1 and 3 WST 1r did show apigenin dose dependent limited but steady increase on ROS generation from thus treated cells when comparing to that of the corresponding doses of WST 1r only treated cells. Conversely combination of 10 of WST 1r with apigenin resulted in decrease of ROS levels . In addition when combined with CCK8 apigenin also increase the ROS generation . This effect is apigenin dose dependent.

Similarly IKK inhibitor III alone and combination of WST 1r with IKK inhibitor III showed similar effect as apigenin did where 5 M IKK Inhibitor increased ROS levels while 10 M IKK Inhibitor III decreased it . However IKK Inhibitor III had no combined effect with CCK8 on ROS levels.

Time Course of ROS Generation after Combination Treatment of WST 1e and Apigenin and IKK Inhibitor III

Method UM SCC6 cells were labeled with 10 M CM H2 DCFDA for 15 minutes and then treated with WST 1r B D or CCK8 A C at the indicated amounts in combination with variable doses of apigenin C D or IKK inhibitor III A B for the time period from 15 minute up to 4 hours. At each time points as indicated fluorescence at Ex485 Em535 were measured for detecting ROS generation that labeled by the CM H2 DCFDA.

Result Data showed that WST 1r induced ROS generation continued increase and lasted at least for more than 4 hours D whereas CCK8 only induced low level and transience increase of ROS C .

Comparison cell death inducing capability of CCK8 and XTT to WST 1r in combination with apigenin treatment

Method HT1080 and UM SCC6 cells were treated with 10 of WST 1r CCK8 or XTT in combination with variable doses of apigenin for 4 hours and then changed to normal growth medium for another 24 hours. Cell viability was measured with CCK8 kit.

Result Data showed that CCK8 had no effect on cell death when comparing to control cells while XTT showed intermediate induction of cell death effect comparing to WST 1r on both UM SCC6 and HT1080 cells . Apigenin 1050 of WST 1r and XTT treated UM SCC6 cells were 5 and 25 M while apigenin only and CCK8 apigenin treatments did not reached 1050. Similar result from HT1080 cells as well.

Method HT1080 and UM SCC6 cells were treated with 1 mM WST 1 0.4 mM WST 3 0.5 mM WST 4 0.5 mM WST 5 or 0.12 mM mPMS alone or each of the WST 3 WST 4 and WST 5 at the same concentration in combination with 0.12 mM mPMS 0.4 mM WST 3 0.12 mM mPMS 0.5 mM WST 4 0.12 mM mPMS 0.5 mM WST 5 0.12 mM mPMS plus 10 30 or 100 M apigenin for 4 hours and then changed to normal growth medium for another 24 hours. Cell viability was measured with CCK8 Kit.

Result Data showed that WST 3 alone WST 3 mPMS and WST 4 mPMS in combination with apigenin showed similar synergistic effect on inducing cell death that equivalent to that WST 1r does from both HT1080 cells and UM SCC6 cells . WST 1 WST 4 and WST 5 alone showed no such effect A B . WST 3 mPMS are more potent than WST 1r on cell death induction.

Method A B HT1080 and UM SCC6 cells were treated with variable concentrations of mPMS as indicated in combination with 1 mM WST 1c and 10 30 or 100 M apigenin for 4 hours and then changed to normal growth medium for another 24 hours. Cell viabilities were measured by CCK8 Kit. 1 mM WST 1 only 0.12 mM mPMS only and 10 WST 1r were used as parallel control. AP 0 Untreated Control AP 10 10 M Apigenin AP 30 30 M Apigenin AP 100 100 M Apigenin.

Result Data showed mPMS and apigenin dose dependent cell death of both HT1080 and UM scc6 cells B . mPMS1050 of combination treatment of apigenin 100 M and mPMS WST 1 from HT1080 cells was 5 mM verses 60 mM from untreated control cells. mPMS1050 of combination treatment of apigenin 100 M and mPMS WST 1 from UM SCC6 cells was 30 M verses 80 M from untreated control cells.

Non cancer human keratinocyte HEKa SK Mel 5 human malonoma cell line SK5 human head and neck cancer cell Cal27 line Cal27 and UM SCC6 line SCC6 cells and human soft tissue sarcoma cell line HT1080 HT1080 were treated with 30 40 or 50 M mPMS for 4 hours and then cultured in normal growth medium for another 24 hours. Cell viabilities were measured with CCK8 kit. Data showed mPMS dose dependent cell death and differential sensitivities to mPMS treatment from each of the cell lines . Among those the non cancer primary cultured HEKa cells showed the least sensitivity to mPMS treatment with IC50 50 M while the 1050 from Cal27 UM SCC6 and HT1080 cells were 20 and 30 M respectively.

Method UM SCC6 HT1080 Cal27 SK Mel 5 and HEKa cells were treated with 50 or 100 M WST 3 or 10 or 30 M apigenin alone or combination of WST 3 and apigenin at different concentrations for 4 hours with untreated cells as control then changed to normal growth medium and remained culture in this medium for another 24 hours. After the 24 hours culture cell viabilities were measured with CCK8 Kit. Data were normalized to of untreated control cells.

Result A Summary of differential cell responses to WST 3 apigenin and combination treatments. Comparing to untreated cells Ctrl treatment of 50 mM WST 3 WST 3 or 30 M apigenin Apigenin alone showed no or limited effect of cell death to all tested cell line. Combination of WST 3 and apigenin Apigenin WST 3 resulted in synergistic cell death of SK Mel 5 Cal27 UM SCC6 and HT1080 all four tested human cancer cell lines but limited cell death from non cancer human keratnocytes .

B C Comparison of Dose Response of WST 3 and apigenin between non cancer HEKa and human melanoma cell line SK Mel 5 cells. Data showed both WST 3 and apigenin induced and dose dependent but limited cell death from both HEKa cells and SK Mel 5 cells. HEKa cells showed limited cell death in response to apigenin or WST 3 alone treatment. WST 3 IC50 of combination of 30 M apigenin and WST 3 was 40 M. Further increase WST 3 concentration showed no more cell death from HEKa cells . However the SK Mel 5 cells showed synergistic cell death response to combination treatment of 50 M WST 3 and 30 M apigenin. The WST 3 IC50 from this combination treatment of the SK Mel 5 cells was 20 M one fold less than that from HEKa cells . The HEKa cells were much more resistant to this combination treatment. Similar results were also observed from other cancer cells.

Effect of Substitution of WST 1r with WST 3 mPMS for Combination Treatment with Apigenin on Induction of Cell Death

Method UM SCC6 HT1080 Cal127 SK Mel 5 and HEKa cells were treated with 0.1 mM WST 3 plus 30 M mPMS or WST 3 only or untreated control in combination with 10 or 30 M apigenin for 4 hours and then changed to normal growth medium and remained culture in this medium for another 24 hours. After the 24 hours culture cell viabilities were measured with CCK8 Kit. Data were normalized to of untreated control cells.

Result Data showed that over 90 induced cell death observed from thus treated Cal27 UM SCC6 and SK Mel 5 cells that were treated in combination of 0.1 mM WST 3 and 30 M apigenin . Adding 30 M mPMS to these treatments further synergize the cell death from Cal27 and UM SCC6 cells . On the other hand under this treatment condition HEKa primary cultured human keratinocytes were relative resistant to this treatment. This difference in sensitivity to this combination treatment may provide a window for differentiating targeting cancer cells and to control toxicity to normal cells.

Method HT1080 cells transfected with siRNAs that were derived from Puc19 DNA sequence and the siRNAs that targeting the corresponding genes that are the targets of the Puc19 derived siRNAs for 24 hours then treated with Taxel at 3 10 30 and 100 nM for 48 hours. After the 48 hours of Taxel treatment cells in culture were changed to normal growth medium for 24 to 72 hours. Cell viability was monitored by CCK8 Kit every 24 hours. Data are normalized to of untreated control cells. The siRNAs that used for this study includes siRNA 1 siRNA 2 siRHA 3 siRNA targeting TRPC6 SH3PXD2B C6orf108 TTBK1 MAGI3 and TMEM182 as well as combination of siRNA 2 3 and siRNA 1 2 3 4 5 siRNA 1 5 .

Result Data showed represent the measurements of 72 hours after the treatment. The cell survival data showed Taxel dose dependent cell death and enhanced cell death by Puc19 trasnfection and majority of the siRNA trasfections . The IC50 of taxel Contrl IC50 60 nM was reduced more than 3 fold by Puc19 DNA trasnfection IC50 20 nM and by the trasnfeciton of siRNAs targeting TRPC6 IC50 25 nM SH3PXD2B IC50 20 nM C6orf108 IC50 20 nM TTBK1 IC50 35 nM MAGI3 IC50 20 nM and TMEM182 IC50 20 nM as well as by the transfection of combination of siRNA 2 3 IC50 25 nM B and siRNA 1 2 3 4 5 IC50 20 nM Over 2.5 fold IC50 decrease of taxel concentration were observed from siRNA 2 IC50 25 nM siRHA 3 IC50 25 nM and siRNA targeting SH3PXD2B IC50 25 nM C6orf108 IC50 20 nM . These data demonstrated that the DAN sequences of Puc19 DNA vector code for some short functional sequences that can target and interrupt the expression levels of the corresponding genes and the cellular functions. At least the genes TRPC6 SH3PXD2B C6orf108 MAGI3 and TMEM182 that have been tested can be used as a target for anti cancer drug design for enhancing the efficacy effect of chemotherapy drugs. The siRNAs targeting these corresponding genes that were identified may also be used as a tool to reach this goal. In addition these combined treatments induce cancer cell death rather than simple inhibition of cell growth. 72 hours after treatment the treated cells did not grow back. This feature adds to lasting effect of the treatment.

Substitution of Puc19 with siRNA Against TMEM182 and MAGI3 for Puc19 Ikk Inhibitor WST 1r Triple Combination Treatment

Method HT1080 cells were transfected with siRNA 3 or the siRNA targeting MAGI3 and TMEM182 that were derived from Puc19 DNA sequence and the siRNAs that targeting the corresponding genes that are the targets of the Puc19 derived siRNAs for 24 hours then treated with IKK inhibitor III for 24 hours followed by adding WST 1r for another 4 hour. After the 4 hours WST 1r treatment cells in culture were changed to normal growth medium for 24 hours. Cell viability were monitored by CCK8 Kit every 24 hours. Data were normalized to of untreated control cells. AllStar siRNA was used as negative siRNA trasnfection control. Puc19 DNA vector transfection was used as positive control.

Data label Untreated control 0 Ctrl WST 1r only 10 Ctrl pUC19 transfected cells 0 p9 pUC19 transfected and WST 1r treated 10 p9 AllStar negative contrl siRNA transfected 0 AllStar AllStar transfected and WST 1r treated 10 AllStar siRNA 3 transfected 0 siRNA 3 siRNA 3 transfcted and WST 1r treated 10 siRNA 3 siRNAMAGI3 transfected 0 MAGI3 siRNA MAGI3 transfcted and WST 1r treated 10 MAGI3 siRNATMEM182 transfected 0 TMEM182 siRNATMEM182 transfcted and WST 1r treated 10 TMEM182 

Result Data showed IKK inhibitor BMS345541 dose dependent cell death and that siRNA targeting MAGI3 and TMEM182 synergize the cell death . At 15 M BMS345541 incombinatoin with 10 WST 1r and either pUC19 or the siRNA trasnfection resulted in synergistic induction of cell death. Again these data showed that targeting TMEM182 and MAGI3 may enhance effect on cancer treatment.

