---

title: System and method for geocoded insurance processing using mobile devices
abstract: Pursuant to some embodiments, insurance systems, methods and devices are provided which include a data storage device for storing, updating and providing access to loss risk score data, a computer processor for executing program instructions and for retrieving the loss risk score data from the data storage device, a memory, coupled to the computer processor, for storing program instructions for execution by the computer processor, a geocoding engine comprising program instructions stored in the memory for geocoding historical loss data and a plurality of loss risk factors, a scoring engine comprising program instructions stored in the memory for calculating a loss risk score for each of a plurality of geographical locations based on said historical loss data and said plurality of loss risk factors, and a communication device, coupled to the computer processor, to output loss risk score data based on geographical location.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09558520&OS=09558520&RS=09558520
owner: HARTFORD FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY
number: 09558520
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100405
---
The present application is based on and claims benefit and priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 291 501 filed on Dec. 31 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein in their entirety for all purposes.

Embodiments relate to insurance processing systems and methods. More particularly embodiments relate to the provision of insurance processing including loss risk scores and scoring using mobile devices.

Each year thousands of deaths and millions of injuries result from automobile or other vehicle crashes. Billions of dollars of losses occur as a direct and indirect result of accidents theft and injury related to automobiles and other vehicles. It is desirable to reduce those losses and to generally improve the safety of drivers and passengers.

Many accidents and thefts occur in high risk areas. For example more theft losses may occur in urban areas. Accident related deaths may occur on certain stretches of suburban roads with difficult to navigate turns or impaired sight lines. Many non injury accidents occur in high traffic density areas such as parking lots or shopping areas.

It would be desirable to provide information to vehicle operators to alert them of the existence and location of these higher risk areas so that they can either avoid them or take extra care when operating in those areas. It would further be desirable to provide more accurate and current data about areas which have higher loss risks including the receipt of accurate information associated with accidents and potential claims. Further still it would be desirable to monitor or identify driving patterns associated with certain drivers to allow those drivers to receive discounts or other benefits based on desirable driving patterns such as avoiding or reducing time spent operating in high loss risk areas.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems and methods for reducing vehicle related losses including insurance systems for underwriting policies and processing claims associated with vehicles. Applicants have recognized a need for systems and methods which allow loss data demographic data and data related to weather time of day day of week and other data to be used to generate loss risk scores. Pursuant to some embodiments these loss risk scores are presented to users such as drivers insured individuals or other interested parties via mobile devices to allow those users to avoid or reduce their exposure to high risk areas or locations. Pursuant to some embodiments users may provide data or other information about accidents thefts other losses or safety information via their mobile devices. This data in some embodiments is used to update loss risk scoring data. Features of some embodiments may be used in conjunction with pricing underwriting updating and otherwise interacting with insurance providers. In some embodiments features may be used in conjunction with individual or personal insurance policies as well as fleet or commercial policies. As used herein the term pricing generally refers to the calculation of a premium associated with an insurance policy.

In some embodiments mobile devices are provided with applications that allow users to easily access view and interact with the loss risk data. For example in some embodiments users are able to view maps routes and other user interfaces having graphical depictions of loss risks by area. The applications in some embodiments allow users to submit data used to enhance or update the loss risk score data e.g. such as by submitting loss claims reporting on third party accidents etc. . In some embodiments the applications further allow the efficient and accurate tracking and reporting of a user s driving or vehicle operation activity allowing for improved pricing and analysis of insurance policies.

The result is a system and method which provides improved information that may be used to reduce losses and injuries and which provides an improved ability to insure and underwrite individuals and businesses. By providing detailed information about geographical areas which pose a high risk of loss embodiments allow users to proactively avoid those areas. The accuracy of the information is improved by allowing mobile device users to provide updates about losses and related information while they are at or near an area at which a loss was suffered. Such updates may be used to initiate and process insurance claims associated with a loss. The information may also be used pursuant to some embodiments to price and underwrite certain policies providing improved coverage and pricing for individuals based on their usage and driving patterns.

To introduce features of some embodiments several illustrative but not limiting examples will now be provided. In a first illustrative example a driver wishes to obtain a new auto insurance policy. The driver has a mobile device such as a smart phone that he uses on a daily basis and the mobile device has built in GPS and wireless features. The driver downloads and installs a mobile application having features of the present invention onto his mobile device from the insurance provider he wishes to obtain coverage from. The driver interacts with the application to provide his insurance application information including his personal information and details of the vehicle he wishes to obtain coverage for. The application information is transmitted over a wireless network to the insurance provider and an application for insurance is created for the driver. Some or all of the steps in seeking and obtaining coverage are performed using the mobile device installed on the driver s mobile device. Although the application is described as being downloaded those skilled in the art will appreciate that the application and some or all of the data associated with the application may be pre installed or preloaded on a device.

In a second illustrative but not limiting example a driver wishes to avoid driving in areas which are dangerous or that have current traffic or driving hazards. The driver downloads and installs a mobile application having features of some embodiments of the present invention onto her mobile device the application may be the same as the one downloaded by the driver in the first illustrative example or a different application . The mobile application having functionality such as that described below in conjunction with allows the driver to view her current location based on GPS or other location data transmitted from her mobile device to a processing system on a map as well as to plot out a planned route between locations. In some embodiments the data may be provided to the user over a network while in other embodiments portions of the data may be provided over a network while other portions may be stored in a storage device associated with the mobile device. Further while a mobile device may be a mobile telephone those skilled in the art will appreciate that other devices may receive consume and otherwise interact with data of the present invention e.g. such as mobile GPS devices vehicle navigation systems or the like .

The map according to some embodiments may include markers or other indicators depicting areas intersections streets or routes which have a higher than average risk of loss. The indicators are created and provided to the mobile device using a scoring engine that includes information about the relative risk of loss associated with different geographical locations or areas. For example the driver may use the information to decide whether to take one of several possible routes. One of the possible routes may have a higher potential risk of loss or damage than the others and the driver may elect to take the route with a lower risk of loss. The driver may also use the information to identify parking lots or areas which have lower risks of theft or property damage. Further still the driver may use the information to identify areas that are currently suffering from higher than ordinary risk e.g. such as a flooded street that she may want to avoid or a road under construction etc. . The driver may also configure the mobile application to alert her substantially in real time of upcoming hazards or risks along her route. For example if the driver is approaching a particularly hazardous intersection where the intersection has a relatively high risk score the mobile device may alert her using visual or audio alerts that she is nearing a hazardous area. In this way the driver is able to proactively take steps to reduce her risk of loss or damage. The driver may also interact with the mobile application to submit information about traffic or road conditions that she personally is witness to for example to submit information about a particularly dangerous road condition etc. . This information may be aggregated and provided to other users of the mobile application to provide substantially real time updates to traffic and driving conditions. In some embodiments additional information may be provided associated with alternative route choices such as the additional amount of time or distance that one route may require over another.

In a third illustrative but not limiting example a driver wishes to qualify for a discount or reduction in his insurance premium and agrees to download and install a mobile application that collects data about the driver s driving patterns in order to possibly qualify for a discount or reduction. The driver interacts with the mobile device to allow it to track his driving patterns by allowing the mobile device to collect data about his daily mileage speed route and other information. The data is collected by the mobile device and wirelessly transmitted to an insurance processing system for analysis. The insurance processing system may use the information to determine a relative risk score associated with the driver s driving patterns e.g. using a scoring engine such as the engine to be described below in conjunction with . The insurance processing system may look at the driver s driving history over a short period of time or over a longer period of time e.g. such as for a week month or even year and may adjust the driver s policy pricing based at least in part on the driver s driving patterns and the relative risk of the driver s routes and driving characteristics. The pricing may be adjusted on a going forward basis e.g. as a reduction to a renewal or as a discount. In this manner policies may be priced more accurately and in a manner that reflects a more accurate assessment of the relative risk posed by a driver. In some embodiments the application may further be used to track where a vehicle is typically parked. Some policies require an insured individual to provide this information. Embodiments of the present invention may allow the data to be automatically collected and transmitted to an insurer for analysis and use.

In a fourth illustrative but not limiting example a driver may suffer an accident or other loss and may need to submit a claim. Pursuant to some embodiments the driver may interact with a mobile application to record details about the accident including taking pictures recording notes and entering loss data using the mobile application. The claim information is then wirelessly transmitted to an insurance processing system for further processing. In some embodiments the claim information may be automatically appended with time and location data from the mobile device for use in processing the claim. In this manner users may quickly efficiently and accurately submit claim information. These and other features and embodiments will be described in further detail below.

Features of some embodiments will now be described by first referring to where a network for providing risk scores and insurance processing pursuant to some embodiments is shown. As depicted network includes a number of devices which together operate to generate store and utilize loss risk scores for use in informing users and in insurance processing. Network includes an insurance processing system with a scoring engine that generates loss risk scores that may be provided to a number of users such as users operating mobile phones such as those described in conjunction with below other user devices such as personal computers or the like and vehicle devices such as navigation systems or the like . The loss risk scores may be used to plan routes e.g. which avoid high loss risk or dangerous areas and to track driver or vehicle behavior e.g. to identify driving patterns which present a relatively low or high risk .

Data may be provided from mobile devices user devices and vehicle devices to update data used by the scoring engine to improve the accuracy and relevancy of scoring data. For example users operating a mobile device may submit information about a vehicle accident theft or other information that may be relevant to the generation of loss risk scores. The data may be used by the scoring engine to update loss risk data which may then be disseminated to devices in the network . The use of such loss risk data in conjunction with mobile or other devices will be described further below in conjunction with .

Pursuant to some embodiments insurance processing system includes a scoring engine which operates on historical loss data and loss related data from other data sources such as public data sources and commercial data sources to generate loss risk scores that indicate a relative loss risk. In some embodiments the loss risk scores and data used to generate the loss risk scores are geocoded to create a loss risk index that represents the relative risk of loss in different geographical locations. Pursuant to some embodiments address and location data may expressed or geocoded as a location or geocode given in latitude and longitude using standard decimal degrees notation for the latitudes and longitudes although other spatial and locational data may also be used to code and tag data associated with the present invention.

In some embodiments the geocoding or tagging may include identifying specific types of locations such as street intersections parking lots or the like so that loss risk scores and other information may be associated with those locations. In some embodiments system includes a geocoding engine which operates on received data to express the data as a location. For example the geocoding engine may be used on address data received from an insurance application claim or other information and translate or express the address as a latitude and longitude. The engine may also append other location related data to the address data to provide additional location information to the data. The geocoded data may then be stored used as an input to the scoring engine or presented to a user device e.g. such as a mobile device etc. for use e.g. such as by presenting the data in a map format or overlay . In some embodiments some of the data used by the scoring engine and or the geocoding engine may be obtained using data mining techniques e.g. such as text mining . For example some claims data or public data used in conjunction with the scoring engine may not be available in a structured format that allows ready geocoding. In such situations data mining techniques may be used to locate identify and extract location and risk relevant data for use and manipulation by the system .

Any of a number of different algorithms may be used to generate the loss risk scores and the loss risk index. In some embodiments the historical loss data and other input data sources are selected based on variables that have a high correlation to loss. The loss risk scores and the loss risk index may be generated using statistical modeling techniques such as by performing computations using discrete scores that are weighted in nonlinear combination e.g. such as based on the likelihood of a loss in a given geographical location or geocode . In some embodiments the generation of the loss risk scores and index may be performed by sampling data including historical loss data normalizing the data generating a scoring model and verifying and updating the model. In some embodiments the model may be updated based on actual loss data received from mobile devices and from other sources. In some embodiments the scoring may be shared among a number of insurance entities e.g. such as a consortium or group of insurance companies and historical and current loss data may be provided from those entities to create a more accurate and predictive score.

As a specific example which is provided for illustration but not limitation the system of the invention operates on data to generate loss risk scores that are associated with the likelihood of a vehicle loss. In such an example implementation the following types of data may be used as inputs to the scoring engine i data from historical loss data including historical data associated with collision losses historical data associated with theft losses and historical data associated with personal injury losses ii data from public data sources including census and demographic data e.g. such as population density crime statistics emergency call data highway and road construction data and iii data from commercial data sources e.g. such as data from other insurers regarding losses theft data from sources such as LoJack or OnStar and traffic and traffic density data from sources such as EZ Pass or the like . This data may further be enhanced or updated using data from users operating mobile devices other user devices and vehicle devices e.g. such as transponders or communication devices installed in fleet or private vehicles .

A number of algorithms may be used to generate loss risk scores pursuant to some embodiments. As one illustrative but not limiting example a loss risk score may be calculated using the following general function Loss Risk Score 

Pursuant to some embodiments the function generates a Loss Risk Score which is a score for a specific location or geocode. The Loss Risk Score may be a representation of a general loss risk range. For example in some embodiments loss risk tiers may be represented as color codes such as green for low risk orange for normal risk and red for higher risk. As another example the loss risk tiers may be represented as alphabetical grades or scores e.g. such as A for low risk B for normal risk and C for higher risk . Other representations may include tiers based on percentages or other representations of the relative risk of a geocode or location.

In the formula depicted above the variable P represents the Average Claims or Loss Severity for a particular geocode or area. The variable Q represents the Average Claims or Loss Frequency for that geocode or area. The variable R represents a Weather Risk factor e.g. representing adverse weather conditions such as a snowstorm rain storm hurricane etc. and the variable S represents a Time of Day risk factor e.g. associated with a time of day such as rush hour night time etc. The variable T represents a Day Risk Factor e.g such as a particular day of the week holiday etc. and the variable U represents a Traffic Condition Risk factor e.g. such as a current traffic condition for a particular geocode or location . The variable V represents a User Generated risk factor based on for example inputs received from people reporting or identifying dangerous events or conditions using their mobile devices . The variable W represents a Crime Risk factor e.g. such as a risk of car thefts or property damage . The variable Y represents a People or Vehicle risk factor e.g. based on population density information . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that other variables and inputs may be provided to generate a risk score that has a high correlation to the risk of loss in a particular location or geocode. Each of the variables may be based on data received substantially in real time from a number of different sources. Individual risk factors will only be used in applicable jurisdications as allowed by law.

Pursuant to some embodiments a trip risk score may be generated using a formula such as Trip Risk Score Where the Trip Risk Score is a score for a particular trip or route traveled by an individual or group of individuals across a number of geocodes. The Trip Risk Score may be represented as a color grade or other representation of the relative risk associated with a particular trip or route. For example a high risk route may be represented by a red color a C or a percentage while a low risk route may be represented by the color green an A or a percentage while a normal risk route may be represented by the color orange a B or a percentage. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a number of other representations may be used to depict the relative risk of a trip or route.

In the Trip Risk Score formula depicted above the variable x is the percentage of the total trip or route distance such as in miles that go through geocodes or locations having a Loss Risk Score of A or a low risk while y is the percentage of the total trip or route distance that pass through geocodes or locations having a Loss Risk Score of B a normal risk while z is the percentage of the total trip or route distance that pass through geocodes or locations having a Loss Risk Score of C a high risk .

Pursuant to some embodiments a Vehicle or Person Risk score may also be calculated using a formula such as the following Vehicle or Person Risk Score 

Where the Vehicle or Person Risk Score is a score for a particular person or vehicle or group of persons or vehicles over a period of time based on cumulative trips taken during that period of time. For example a person who during the course of the year 2010 spends much of their time driving through high risk geocodes may be assigned a Person Risk Score of red or some other indicator of high risk based for 2010. In the Vehicle or Person Risk Score formula shown above the variable m is the percentage of the total distance taken through or in geocodes having a Loss Risk Score of A low risk n is the percentage of the total distance taken through or in geocodes having a Loss Risk Score of B normal risk and p is the percentage of the total distance traveled in or through geocodes having a Loss Risk Score of C high risk .

Each of these risk scores may be used in providing information to users operating mobile devices as well as in providing insurance services including in the pricing and underwriting of insurance policies. In some embodiments the risk scores may be generated and used by an insurance processing system .

Insurance processing system may be operated by or on behalf of an insurance company that issues insurance policies associated with the type of risk scored by the scoring engine . For example in the situation where the scoring engine is used to score vehicle or automobile types of loss risks the insurance processing system may be operated by an automobile insurer. In some embodiments some or all of the components of the system may be operated by or on behalf of other entities. For example in some embodiments the system may be operated by a device manufacturer e.g. such as vehicle navigation system by a mobile device manufacturer etc in order to provide risk and driving related data to their customers. In some embodiments some or all of the system may be operated by agents or other groups or entities in order to provide use and otherwise interact with scoring and driving data pursuant to the present invention.

Data generated by the scoring engine or received from mobile devices user devices and or vehicle devices may be used by the insurance processing system to perform policy underwriting e.g. using underwriting systems and or claims processing e.g. using claims processing systems . For example as will be described further below automobile insurance policyholders who suffer an accident and need to submit a claim on their policy may use their mobile device to submit claim data to the insurance processing system e.g. to trigger a notice of loss or otherwise initiate claims processing . The data received by the insurance processing system may be received via one or more application programming interfaces APIs and routed to the claims processing systems for processing. In some embodiments the data may also be routed to the scoring engine to update loss risk data e.g. to provide data about the accident the location and the nature of the claimed loss .

Pursuant to some embodiments the API may include one or more APIs that expose some or all of the scoring data to external services. For example in one embodiment an API may be provided that allows the scoring data to be merged or integrated with data from external mapping services such as Google Maps or Mapquest . In such embodiments users viewing a map displayed on a mobile device other user device or vehicle device may select to view an overlay or integrated display of risk data. Examples of such a view are provided and discussed further below in conjunction with . In this way users may view plan and create routes designed to avoid or minimize their exposure to high loss risk areas.

Pursuant to some embodiments data may be transmitted between devices using a wireless network. In some embodiments some or all of the data may be transmitted using other network communication techniques e.g. such as satellite communication RFID or the like . In some embodiments some or all of the data transmitted between devices may be encrypted or otherwise secured to prevent intrusion.

Reference is now made to which is a block diagram of an example network environment showing communication paths between a mobile device and the insurance processing systems as well as other devices and data sources . The mobile device may be for example a mobile telephone PDA personal computer or the like. For example the mobile device may be an iPhone from Apple Inc. a BlackBerry from RIM a mobile phone using the Google Android operating system or the like. In general mobile device may be any mobile computing and or communications device which is capable of executing the insurance applications described below.

The mobile device of can for example communicate over one or more wired and or wireless networks . As an example a wireless network can be a cellular network represented by a cell transmitter . A mobile device may communicate over a cellular or other wireless network and through a gateway may then communicate with a network e.g. such as the Internet or other public or private network . An access point such as access point may be provided to facilitate data and other communication access to network . The access point may be for example compliant with the 802.11g or other communication standards.

In some embodiments mobile device may engage in both voice and data communications over the wireless network via access point . For example the mobile device may be able to place or receive phone calls send and receive emails send and receive short message service SMS messages send and receive email messages access electronic documents send and receive streaming media or the like over the wireless network through the access point . Similar communications may be made via the network .

In some embodiments a mobile device may also establish communication by other means such as for example wired connections with networks peer to peer communication with other devices e.g. using Bluetooth networking or the like etc.

The mobile device can for example communicate with one or more services over the networks such as service providers and the insurance processing systems described above in conjunction with . For example a locator service may provide navigation information e.g. map information location information route information and other information to the mobile device .

Other services may include for example other web based services e.g. such as data services or the like media services e.g. providing photo video music or other rich content download services e.g. allowing applications and software or the like to be downloaded etc. and insurance services such as the insurance services described further below and including for example insurance reporting customer service underwriting issuance and the like .

The mobile device can also access other data over the one or more wired and or wireless networks . For example content providers such as news sites RSS feeds web sites blogs social networking sites developer networks etc. can be accessed by the mobile device . Such access can be provided by invocation of a web browsing function or application e.g. a browser in response to a user launching a Web browser application installed on the mobile device .

For example in some embodiments described herein the mobile device may interact with insurance processing system of to receive data associated with loss risk data generated by the scoring engine of including the Loss Risk Scores by geocode the Trip Risk Scores for routes etc. The mobile device may receive the loss risk data and integrate the data with a map e.g. as shown and described below in conjunction with to allow route planning or driving to avoid high risk of loss areas or danger zones . The mobile device may also operate to transmit insurance related data or driving data to the insurance processing system . For example in a situation where the operator of the mobile device is insured by the insurance company operating or associated with the insurance processing system claim data associated with a collision theft or other loss may be reported using the mobile device . An example of such a claims processing situation are provided below in conjunction with . In some embodiments an operator of the mobile device may operate the mobile device to submit traffic information accident information or other information that may be relevant to other users or to the collection of loss related data for use by the scoring engine . An example of such a submission is provided below in conjunction with . In still further embodiments mobile device or vehicle devices may be configured to collect and transmit vehicle or operator driving patterns for use in pricing underwriting or otherwise administering insurance policies. An example of such an embodiment is provided below in conjunction with .

A number of pricing formulas may be used to incorporate the loss risk scores described above into a pricing determination. For example in one illustrative embodiment the following formula may be used Price Factor Factor Factor Factor Factor Base Rate

Where the Factor x is a number between 1.00 and 1.99 calculated from a formula using a defined set of Factor Inputs. The Factor Inputs are pre defined rating variables from a table of different classifications. The Base Rate is a monetary number used for a unit of risk coverage e.g. Base Rate for vehicles in State of New York or Base Rate for all private passenger vehicles in State of New York . The unit of risk coverage for a particular Base Rate could be for a broad set unit of time and place year state . Pursuant to some embodiments as risk data may be received substantially in real time or on a regular basis the unit of risk coverage for a particular Base Rate could be much more granular thanks to the dynamically changing data. For example the unit of risk coverage could be expressed as a base rate per minute and or a base rate per mile or base rate per geocode. As another example the data may be used to perform pay as you go pricing of policies. As an example in some embodiments pay as you go or route or trip specific pricing may be provided and communicated to a user pursuant to some embodiments. A driver on a pay as you go plan may request several different route options and receive pricing for each of the routes so that the driver can pick a desired route based on price time and other factors.

In the example pricing formula shown above a number of Factor Inputs may be used including for example those shown in the Table 1 below.

These pricing factors as well as the risk scoring criteria discussed herein are provided for illustrative purposes. The factors and criteria used in conjunction with any given insurer or product will be selected and used in a manner that is in conformance with any applicable laws and regulations. Pursuant to some embodiments more granular pricing may be achieved by using several non traditional pricing factors including the Person Risk Score the Vehicle Risk Score and the Trip Risk Score generated by the scoring engine of the present invention. Further because the data may be obtained based on actual usage patterns obtained from mobile device or from vehicle devices in some embodiments the pricing may accurately reflect the actual loss risk associated with the usage patterns of a particular driver or vehicle.

The mobile device can perform a number of different device functions. For example the mobile device may operate as a telephone an email device a network communication device a media player device etc. under control of one or more applications installed on the mobile device . In some embodiments a user operating the mobile device may interact with the applications using a keypad which may be a tactile keypad with individual keys or which may be a touch screen keypad. The user is presented with information and graphics on a display screen .

Reference is now made to where flow diagrams are shown which depict processes that may be performed by the insurance processing system of to generate loss risk scores using the scoring engine . Referring first to a process may be performed to generate loss risk scores including the Loss Risk Scores the Trip Risk Scores and or the Vehicle or Person Risk Scores described above that may be used in insurance processing. The process may be performed on an as needed basis to assign loss risk scores to geographical regions e.g. such as ZIP code areas ZIP 5 areas or more granular areas based on latitude and longitude . Processing begins at where historical loss data are received for processing. Historical loss data may be obtained from a data source such as historical loss database of . In some embodiments the historical loss data may be data associated with a single insurer. For example in situations where the system is operated by or on behalf of a particular insurer the historical loss data may be loss data accumulated by that insurer. In some embodiments a group association or affiliation of insurers may aggregate historical loss data to provide a more accurate loss risk score. In such embodiments the data received at may include receiving data from one or more third party sources e.g. such as commercial data sources . In some embodiments processing at may include pre processing or formatting the data to a desired input format. Such processing may also include geocoding the data to a preferred format e.g. such as using KML or other geographic formatting of data .

Processing continues at where the system is operated to identify one or more variables having a high correlation to loss. For example some variables may clearly have a high correlation to loss such as theft collision or the like. Other variables may be identified based on analysis at . Processing continues at where risk scores are generated and assigned to individual geographical areas or regions. For example as the risk scores are calculated based on location scores may be assigned to specific areas such as by ZIP code or the like so that those areas may be assigned a relative loss risk score e.g. such as by using the Loss Risk Score formula described above by geocode .

Reference is now made to where a further flow diagram is shown. The flow diagram of depicts a process for updating loss risk scores based on current or additional information received from various sources such as public data sources commercial data sources mobile devices user devices and vehicle devices . Processing begins at where current loss data is received. For example current loss data may include new loss claim data received from an insurance policy holder who has submitted a claim using his or her mobile device as described below in conjunction with or accident event information received from a user operating a mobile device as described below in conjunction with . The data received at may be geocoded and formatted so that existing loss risk data and scoring may be updated.

Processing continues at where loss relevant data from public or commercial sources are received. The loss relevant data may be information not directly associated with a loss but that is relevant to assessing the likelihood or risk of loss in different geographical areas. For example data received at may include traffic event information received from a user operating a mobile device as described below in conjunction with . Other data received at may include police report data from public data sources or theft report data from public data sources and or commercial data sources . The data received at may be geocoded and formatted so that existing risk data and scoring may be updated.

Processing continues at where the scoring engine operates to assign updated risk scores by geographical area based on the new or updated information received at and . The data updated by the processes of may be provided to users in a number of different ways. For example referring now to a diagram depicting a user interface is shown. The user interface may be displayed on a computer on a mobile device such as the device of or on any type of display device that can receive data from insurance processing system .

The user interface depicts a portion of a map showing a portion of Fairfield County in the State of Connecticut. More particularly the map shows ZIP code regions of Fairfield County with certain ZIP code regions such as regions having different shading or hatching. The shading or hatching depicts the relative loss risk suffered by drivers in each ZIP code region with certain rural ZIP code regions shown without shading or hatching such as region having a lower risk than other ZIP code regions such as region with a high loss risk and region with a moderate loss risk .

The regions and their relative loss risk scores are purely illustrative and are used for purposes of describing features of some embodiments of the present invention. However pursuant to some embodiments entire coverage areas may be scored or have their relative risk assessed. Scores or risk levels may be depicted in a number of different ways including using color codes e.g. such as red for high risk yellow for moderate risk and green for low risk hatching numeric scores or the like. In some embodiments the presentation of risk levels may be used to primarily to communicate specific danger zones to drivers or vehicle operators. Pursuant to some embodiments the scoring and geocoding of data may be performed on an ongoing basis with updates performed substantially in real time. As a result large accidents disasters weather conditions time of day traffic patterns and other events may cause the scoring to change and the presentation of such changes to users operating mobile devices or other devices allows such users to react to or take steps to avoid any danger zones or areas of higher than normal risk.

In some embodiments such as the one depicted in users operating devices such as a mobile device may access risk score information in order to identify a safe route or to assess the relative risk associated with multiple route options. For example Trip Risk Score maybe generated for each of the multiple route options. As shown in a user is viewing a portion of a route map. In the illustrative interface the user is viewing a route through Fairfield County Connecticut and has two route choices a surface street shown as Route 1 or a freeway shown as Interstate 95 . The relative level of loss risk posed between the two routes is depicted by shading or coloring. In the illustrative example the choice of Route 1 shown as item is shaded darker than the alternative route shown as item . The darker shading may indicate that the surface street which traverses a downtown area with multiple traffic issues and intersections has a higher risk of loss than the alternative route. In this manner users operating mobile devices or other devices such as vehicle navigation systems or computers may proactively choose to take routes that have lower risk of vehicle damage passenger injury or other losses.

Similar maps may be generated for specific loss risks. For example a user may wish to find the relative danger of parking in one parking lot over another parking lot. Embodiments allow users to request specific loss risk score and receive the data in a visual representation such as a map or a map overlay. Other route planning mapping and graphical uses of such risk data will be described further below in conjunction with .

Reference is now made to where details of a mobile device according to some embodiments is shown. As depicted the mobile device includes a number of components which may be controlled or perform functions in conjunction with one more application programs to perform the features of some embodiments.

The mobile device can include a memory interface one or more data processors image processors and or central processing units and a peripherals interface . The memory interface the one or more processors and or the peripherals interface can be separate components or can be integrated in one or more integrated circuits. The various components in the mobile device can be coupled by one or more communication buses or signal lines.

Sensors devices and subsystems can be coupled to the peripherals interface to facilitate multiple functionalities. For example a biometrics sensor an accelerometer a photoelectric device a proximity sensor a camera a wireless communication unit and an audio unit may be provided to facilitate the collection use and interaction with data and information and to achieve the functions of the insurance applications described further below.

The mobile device may include one or more input output I O devices and or sensor devices. For example input controllers may be provided with a speaker and a microphone not shown to facilitate voice enabled functionalities such as phone and voice mail functions. In some implementations a loud speaker can be included to facilitate hands free voice functionalities such as speaker phone functions. An audio jack can also be included for use of headphones and or a microphone.

The I O subsystem can include a touch screen controller and or other input controller s . The touch screen controller can be coupled to a touch screen . The touch screen and touch screen controller can for example detect contact and movement or break thereof using any of a plurality of touch sensitivity technologies including but not limited to capacitive resistive infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies as well as other proximity sensor arrays or other elements for determining one or more points of contact with the touch screen .

The other input controller s can be coupled to other input control devices such as one or more buttons rocker switches thumb wheel infrared port USB port and or a pointer device such as a stylus. The one or more buttons not shown can include an up down button for volume control of the speaker and or the microphone.

In some implementations a proximity sensor can be included to facilitate the detection of the user positioning the mobile device proximate to the user s ear and in response to disengage the touch screen display to prevent accidental function invocations. In some implementations the touch screen display can be turned off to conserve additional power when the mobile device is proximate to the user s ear.

Other sensors can also be used. For example in some implementations a photoelectric device may be provided to facilitate adjusting the brightness of the touch screen display . In some implementations an accelerometer can be utilized to detect movement of the mobile device . In some embodiments the mobile device may include circuitry and sensors for supporting a location determining capability such as that provided by the global positioning system GPS or other positioning system e.g. systems using Wi Fi access points television signals cellular grids Uniform Resource Locators URLs . In some implementations a positioning system e.g. a GPS receiver can be integrated into the mobile device or provided as a separate device that can be coupled to the mobile device through a peripherals interface to provide access to location based services. The positioning and location based services may be used for example to tag data transmitted from the mobile device to insurance provider systems e.g. in conjunction with the reporting of traffic accidents or filing claims as will be described further below .

The mobile device can also include a camera lens and sensor . In some implementations the camera lens and sensor can be located on the back surface of the mobile device . The camera can capture still images and or video. The camera may be used for example to capture images of traffic incidents vehicle collisions or the like as will be described further below.

The mobile device can also include one or more wireless communication subsystems such as an 802.11b g communication device and or a Bluetooth communication device. Other communication protocols can also be supported including other 802.x communication protocols e.g. WiMax Wi Fi code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE 3G e.g. EV DO UMTS HSDPA etc.

In some implementations additional sensors or subsystems may be coupled to the peripherals interface via connectors such as for example a Universal Serial Bus USB port or a docking port or some other wired port connection.

The memory interface can be coupled to memory . The memory can include high speed random access memory and or non volatile memory such as one or more magnetic disk storage devices one or more optical storage devices and or flash memory e.g. NAND NOR . The memory can store an operating system such as Darwin RTXC LINUX UNIX OS X WINDOWS or an embedded operating system such as VxWorks. The operating system may include instructions for handling basic system services and for performing hardware dependent tasks. In some implementations the operating system can be a kernel e.g. UNIX kernel .

The memory may also store application programs which act in conjunction with the processors to cause the mobile device to operate to perform certain functions including the insurance related functions described further below.

The memory can also store data including but not limited to documents images video files audio files and other data. In some implementations the memory stores address book data which can include contact information e.g. address phone number etc. for one or more persons organizations services or entities. For example in some embodiments the memory stores insurance policy numbers or other unique identifiers to allow a user of the mobile device to quickly access insurance policy related data and information.

In some embodiments the mobile device includes a positioning system. In some embodiments the positioning system can be provided by a separate device coupled to the mobile device or can be provided internal to the mobile device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ positioning technology including a GPS a cellular grid URIs or any other technology for determining the geographic location of a device. In some implementations the positioning system can employ a service provided by a third party or external positioning. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by an accelerometer and a compass using dead reckoning techniques. In such implementations the user can occasionally reset the positioning system by marking the mobile device s presence at a known location e.g. a landmark or intersection . In still other implementations the user can enter a set of position coordinates e.g. latitude longitude for the mobile device. For example the position coordinates can be typed into the phone e.g. using a virtual keyboard or selected by touching a point on a map. Position coordinates can also be acquired from another device e.g. a car navigation system by syncing or linking with the other device. In other implementations the positioning system can be provided by using wireless signal strength and one or more locations of known wireless signal sources to provide the current location. Wireless signal sources can include access points and or cellular towers. Other techniques to determine a current location of the mobile device can be used and other configurations of the positioning system are possible.

Reference is now made to where a mobile device is shown. As shown the mobile device can launch and operate under the control of one or more application programs by selecting an icon associated with an application program. As depicted the mobile device has several application programs and corresponding icons including an insurance application launched by selecting icon a phone application launched by selecting icon an email program launched by selecting icon a Web browser application launched by selecting icon and a media player application launched by selecting icon . Those skilled in the art will recognize that mobile device may have a number of different icons and applications and that applications may be launched in other manners as well e.g. using hot keys drop down selectors or the like . In the embodiment shown an application such as the insurance application is launched by the user tapping or touching an icon displayed on the touch screen interface of the mobile device .

Once an application is launched the user may interact with the application and the mobile device may function pursuant to the program instructions associated with the application. In the various insurance applications described further below details of some operation of the mobile device will be described.

Pursuant to some embodiments an application may be stored in or accessible to memory of mobile device which allows a user of mobile device to participate in insurance or claim related crowdsourcing of data. For example in some embodiments the insurance application may allow user initiated reporting of accidents or events. In some embodiments a user operating a mobile device may launch the application and select an option such as report an incident . The option may provide a selection of different types of incidents e.g. such as an automobile accident a personal injury a fire a robbery a natural disaster etc. and may prompt the user for additional information. Data from the mobile device including a user identifier a location of the user and the user provided data are transmitted over a network to an insurance service provider for collating the data. In some embodiments a user may provide commentary e.g. by entering a textual description of the event by recording a voice narrative by taking one or more still photos by taking one or more video recordings etc. of the event. Such commentary will be transmitted over a network to the insurance system . In some embodiments the data received by the insurance system is used to update modify or otherwise maintain accurate and current information for use by scoring engine .

In some embodiments a map of events near a user s location may also be presented and users in the area of an event may be prompted to provide further data about the event. In this manner for example a number of separate users may provide near real time evidence or documentation about events that may trigger insurance coverage so that the insurer may more accurately process claims arising from the event. For example in some embodiments when users operating mobile devices transmit information to insurance system the mobile device tags the data with the user s geocoded location and a timestamp.

In some embodiments users may be provided with an incentive for submitting such event data. For example users who are insured or might become insured by an insurance company operating the service may receive a benefit e.g. such as a discount or coupon based on the number quality and type of events the user provides data about.

In some embodiments the data from such user reported events may be presented on a map or other user interface that is transmitted from the insurance system to individual mobile devices . The data may then be used to alert users about nearby events so that the user can adjust their location accordingly e.g. to avoid a traffic accident to depart from an area with a natural disaster etc. . In some embodiments the insurance service provider may use such event data to transmit alerts or notifications to individual users in the area of an event.

In the event of catastrophes or natural disasters e.g. such as tornados floods terrorist activities etc user data may be collected substantially in real time to monitor the extent and exact location of such events and to alert other users of the location and extent of such events.

Reference is now made to which shows a process for installing and using an application pursuant to some embodiments. Process may be performed using a mobile device such as the mobile device described above. As shown processing begins at where a user of a mobile device downloads and installs the insurance application. This download and install may be performed from the mobile device or from a desktop computer in communication with the mobile device . The application may be downloaded from the insurance system or from an application marketplace.

Processing continues at where a user launches the application e.g. to report on an event witnessed by the user. Processing continues at where the user selects or designates a type of event he or she wishes to report on e.g. such as a flood an accident a fire or the like . Processing continues at where the user manipulates the mobile device to collect event data. For example processing at may include the user taking a photo or a video of the event scene and or providing a textual or voice recorded description of the event. Processing continues at where the event data is transmitted to an insurance system for further processing. In some embodiments the application causes geolocation data to be appended to or otherwise associated with the event data. The event data and the geolocation data are then manipulated by the insurance system to provide information to other users or to amass details about the event. In some embodiments the data may be used in conjunction with insurance processing such as the insurance processing described further below in conjunction with .

Pursuant to some embodiments an application may be stored in or accessible to memory of mobile device which allows a user of mobile device to participate in insurance or claim related reporting of data. For example a user who has installed an insurance application of the present invention on a mobile device and who witnesses an event may collect annotate and transmit the event data to an insurance system via a network interface. As a specific example where a user witnesses or is a participant in a traffic accident involving multiple parties e.g. such as where the user is a rider on a bus during a bus accident the user may launch an insurance application and collect annotate and transmit information associated with the accident to an insurance system . One common problem in such events is the processing of claims by parties who purport to have been present in the event but whose presence cannot be verified. Using features of the present invention witnesses who were actually present at the scene of the event can record scenes from the event including pictures and videos of the participants in the event. This data can be time stamped geocoded and verified as coming from the scene of the event and can later be used by the insurance to authenticate and process claims arising from the event.

In some embodiments users who submit such data to the insurance system may receive benefits such as discounts in policies or the like. Further users who suffered injury from such events may enjoy faster claim processing as additional paperwork may be minimized and delays associated with claim processing may be reduced.

Similar features may be used in insurance applications which are used to report record and prove damage from single vehicle or other accidents. For example a user who is an insured who suffers a single car accident may use the application to document the extent of damages suffered in the accident. The data transmitted to the insurance system may include geocoded location information as well as time and date information to document the location and time of the event. Such data may be used in conjunction with official accident reports to verify the insured s claim.

Reference is now made to where one embodiment of an accident verification system is shown. As depicted the accident verification system includes a number of components interacting to allow users of mobile devices and to operate an accident verification application to capture accident or event details. In the system of two users of mobile devices have installed an accident verification application pursuant to the present invention and are at the scene of a car accident and may be the insured of one of the vehicles in the accident . One user is standing near the scene and captures one view of the accident by taking a photo or video from her perspective of the accident. The image and other details including geocoded data are transmitted to an insurance system for further processing. Another operator is a passenger in a vehicle just behind the scene and captures a second view of the accident by taking a photo or vide from his perspective of the accident. Again the data is transmitted to the insurance system for processing.

The insurance system may use the data to verify details of the accident process claims or otherwise handle claims arising from the accident. Further examples of some embodiments of such claim or accident reporting using a mobile device are provided below in conjunction with a description of .

Pursuant to some embodiments an application may be stored in or accessible to memory of mobile device which allows a user of mobile device to download and install an application which may be used to alert or notify the user of dangerous areas or areas which have higher than normal risks of accidents or injury. In some embodiments the application installed on the mobile device interacts with data from an insurance system over a network interface such as the network of . As a user moves around e.g. by driving in a car or by walking etc. the application sends updates of the user s location to the insurance system . The insurance system uses the location data to compare the user s location and for example the user s trajectory or path to identify nearby areas that have higher than average accident or injury claims as scored by the scoring engine of . This accident and injury data may be generated by map snapping or by geocoding historical accident and injury data as described above in conjunction with .

If the user s trajectory or path is likely to take the user to an area of high risk a notice or warning may be provided. For example a voice prompt may be generated if the user is driving toward an intersection that has a very high number of accidents stating Careful the intersection of Oak and Main is dangerous please use caution when going through the intersection. Other types of notifications may also be provided and may in some embodiments be configured or specified by the user .

In some embodiments the application may be used to construct a route plan with a risk rating for each of several alternative routes so that a user may select the lower risk of alternative routes e.g. as shown in the illustrative map of . In some embodiments a route risk score may be generated allowing the user to select the more desirable route.

Reference is now made to where a system is shown in which a user is operating a mobile device on which an insurance application pursuant to the present invention is installed. The user is the operator or a passenger in a vehicle stuck in a traffic jam and operates the application to submit details of the traffic situation including a geolocation of the traffic jam and a severity of the jam as well as other relevant details . The information is transmitted from the mobile device to an insurance or other processing system via a network . The processing system aggregates data from a plurality of different users to create a report of the danger area or traffic situation that can be viewed or otherwise received by other users.

Pursuant to some embodiments an application may be stored in or accessible to memory of mobile device which allows a user of mobile device to track a user s driving patterns to provide insurance coverage and pricing based on the user s actual behavior. For example currently a driver in Kansas who claims to drive 10 000 miles a year will pay less for insurance than a similarly aged driver in New York City who also claims to drive 10 000 miles a year. However it may turn out that the driver in Kansas should pay more if the driver engages in higher risk driving patterns than the New York driver. Pursuant to some embodiments drivers may download an application and install it on their mobile device so that their driving patterns may be tracked or monitored. In some embodiments drivers who participate may receive premium discounts or other incentives to participate.

Pursuant to some embodiments a driver who has downloaded and installed the insurance application on a mobile device will be prompted to register the application with the insurer. Once registered in some embodiments the mobile device may be configured to recognize when the driver is in his or her insured vehicle e.g. by synching with a blue tooth device of the car by scanning a bar code RFID code or other tag associated with the vehicle etc. . Once registered and configured the driver may use the mobile device to track his or her driving patterns. In some embodiments a weekly or monthly sample may be taken to track how and where the driver operates the vehicle to determine if insurance coverage can be granted or modified. In this manner operators may qualify for improved insurance terms and insurers may more appropriately cover insureds.

Reference is now made to where a process is shown for installing and using a driving pattern application pursuant to some embodiments. Process may be performed using a mobile device such as the mobile device described above. As shown processing begins at where a user of a mobile device downloads and installs the driving pattern application. This download and install may be performed from the mobile device or from a desktop computer in communication with the mobile device . The application may be downloaded from the insurance processing system or from an application marketplace. In some embodiments the application may be installed at the request of an insurer or as an option provided by an insurer so the user may qualify for reduced rates or as part of an underwriting process performed by an insurer.

Processing continues at where the user interacts with the application to register the application with their insurer e.g. by providing a policy number or the like . Processing continue at where the vehicle s to be monitored are registered with the application e.g. by synching the application and the mobile device with a bluetooth system of the vehicle by reading an RFID tag installed in the vehicle or the like .

Processing continues at where the application is operated to collect driving pattern data. The application may be triggered once the vehicle moves or when activated by the user. Location data may be collected while the vehicle is in operation to track data such as a vehicle s route speed driving characteristics or the like.

Processing continues at where the application causes the driving pattern data to be transmitted to an insurance processing system for further processing e.g. such as for underwriting risk analysis or other processing such as that described below in conjunction with .

Pursuant to some embodiments an application may be stored in or accessible to memory of mobile device which allows a user of mobile device to interact with the application to transmit data and information about an accident injury or loss to an insurance system . For example in some embodiments a user may activate an insurance application when an accident injury or loss occurs and for which insurance coverage may be sought. The insurance application prompts the user to provide detailed information about the event which may vary based on the type of event . In some embodiments the insurance application prompts the user to take one or more photos or videos associated with the accident injury or loss to prove the extent of damage or loss. The data collected by the application is transmitted over a network to an insurance system for further analysis. In some embodiments the data is geotagged so that the insurer can identify the exact location and time of the claim. In this manner insurers can more quickly act on claims and can avoid or reduce the number of fraudulent claims submitted. In some embodiments fraudulent claims can further be reduced by determining if a mobile device is in one location but the alleged incident relating to a claim is at a second location.

Reference is now made to where a claim proof and processing method is shown which may be performed using a mobile device such as a mobile device . Process may be performed using a mobile device such as the mobile device. As shown processing begins at where a user of a mobile device downloads and installs the claim proof application. This download and install may be performed from the mobile device or from a desktop computer in communication with the mobile device . The application may be downloaded from the insurance system or from an application marketplace. In some embodiments the application may be installed at the request of an insurer or as an option provided by an insurer so the user may qualify for more efficient claim processing as a result of the data collected by the user.

Processing continues at where the user launches the claim proof application e.g. once a loss or event has occurred . Processing continues at where the user selects a claim type e.g such as an auto accident a theft an injury or the like . Processing continues at where the user interacting with the application and using features of the mobile device such as a voice recorder camera geolocation data etc collects claim data. For example if the claim type is an auto accident the user may be prompted to take one or more photos of any auto damage as well as to enter data identifying the extent of the loss and circumstances surrounding the loss. Once sufficient data has been collected processing continues at where the claim data is transmitted to an insurer system such as system of for processing. Insurance processing may include processing as described below in conjunction with .

Reference is now made to where a number of illustrative user interfaces depicting insurance application processing e.g. as described in conjunction with are provided. The user interfaces of may be displayed for example on a display device of a mobile device such as the device of . A number of other user interfaces may be provided to allow user interaction with any of the flows or processes described herein and the user interfaces of are provided for illustration only. The user interfaces of depict an example series of interfaces that may be provided to a user who has had an accident. shows a user interface that may be presented to a user who launches a mobile application pursuant to some embodiments and selects the option I ve Had an Auto Accident . The user interface includes a series of options or steps that the user may walk through in order to properly handle and report a claim associated with the accident.

Each of the mobile applications described herein may be in communication with one or more insurance processing systems such as the system of . In addition to providing loss risk data as described above e.g. in conjunction with route planning or the like the systems may further operate or interact with data from the mobile applications to perform insurance policy underwriting pricing claim processing policy renewal risk analysis or the like. Features of some embodiments of insurance processing systems and environments will now be provided by reference to . Each or any of the applications described above may provide data to or receive data from one or more of the insurance processing systems described below.

Mobile device pursuant to some embodiments stores an application program that may be loaded onto the mobile device from an insurance company or from an application repository e.g. such as Apple s App Store or the like . The application when launched prompts the customer from information used to interact with the insurance company . A variety of different types of data and information may be provided from mobile device to insurance company including static data regarding the customer such as the customer s name address contact information age height weight policy information etc. Other variable information may be provided as described in each of the mobile application embodiments described above .

The data from mobile device is transmitted via communications network to insurance company for evaluation and processing. Third party provider can also be a source of information associated with customers and policies.

Insurance company has a computer system that includes application servers load balancing proxy servers data storage unit business logic computer and user interface module to perform risk evaluation and underwriting based on the collected data. Employees of the insurance company and other authorized personnel use user interface module to access the insurance company computer system. User interface module may be any type of computing device that is configured to communicate with other computer systems. User interface module may be connected directly to application server or may access an application server via the load balancing proxy servers . User interface module may connect to load balancing proxy servers via a local area network a private data link or via the internet. Although depicted as being part of insurance company in user interface module may be located remotely. The business logic computer is connected to the data storage unit and application servers over a local area network which may be part of communication system . In addition other network infrastructure including for example a firewall backup servers and back up data stores may also be included in the system without departing from the scope of the invention. Communications over the local area network and or over the Internet in one implementation may be encrypted. In addition such communications whether encrypted or not may also be digitally signed for authenticating the source of the communications. The computer system may also include a certificate authority to authenticate one or more of the communications using public key infrastructure.

Based on data collected from the mobile device and any third party data sources an evaluation module analyzes and evaluates data associated with a customer . As used herein a module may be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. A n identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code could be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. In addition entire modules or portions thereof may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like or as hardwired integrated circuits.

A business logic module implemented preferably in business logic computer is used to underwrite or alter insurance pricing for customer based on the received data. The business logic module may use predictive models such as neural networks Bayesian networks and support vector machines in performing the underwriting and premium adjustment. In one embodiment the premium of an insurance policy is increased or decreased if data received from customer warrants. Instead of altering premium rates other terms of the insurance policy can be altered such as the policy deductible. In some embodiments the premiums may be increased or decreased based on driving pattern data collected using the mobile device as described above in conjunction with . Further still rates may depend on one or more loss risk scores calculated by the scoring engine described in conjunction with .

In another scenario insurance company awards customer with premium discounts or other advantageous rewards simply for operating certain mobile insurance applications as described above. Insurance company may award different discounts depending on the nature and amount of data provided by customer.

In one implementation software operating on the application servers act merely as presentation and data extraction and conversion servers. All substantive business logic including underwriting and pricing determinations is carried out on the business logic computer . In this implementation the application servers obtain data from the data storage unit and the business logic computer and incorporate that data into web pages or other graphical user interface formats . These web pages are then communicated by the application servers through the load balancing proxy servers to user interface module for presentation. Upon receiving input from user interface module the application server translates the input into a form suitable for processing by the business logic computer and for storage by the data storage unit . In this implementation the application servers can be operated by third parties who can add their own branding to the web pages or add other customized presentation data. In the alternative at least some of the business logic is also carried out by the application servers . Application servers may also include a webserver for automatically recovering or retrieving data from local computer .

In another implementation the application servers are software modules operating on one or more computers. One of the computers on which the application servers are operating may also serve as the business logic computer and or as a load balancing proxy server .

In other implementations the software operating on user interface module includes a thin or thick client application in addition to or instead of web browser. The thin or thick client application interfaces with a corresponding server application operating on the application server .

The insurance company may perform for example a premium analysis which includes activities that potentially affect a customer s premium deductible amount discounts or credits as well as large scale analysis to provide input into industry or occupation experience factors. The determination of premium and offering of discounts or credits may be performed once at underwriting time regularly on an interval continuously in response to an event or retroactively as permitted by local state and or federal regulations.

The analysis and decisions made by insurance company with regard to premium service adjustments may be transmitted back to customer via the mobile device . Insurance company may save the data and reports received from customer and the decisions that were made based upon them in a data storage unit associated with the insurance company or in a separate data warehouse. This archived data may be used for future retrospective analysis claims adjudication and or to support fraud investigation.

The method of begins at by collecting data from mobile devices associated with an insured customer or in some embodiments associated with a prospective insured customer . The data may include driving pattern data including speed areas of operation mileage traveled time of operation or other data collected by mobile computing devices as described above. The data may be transmitted to an insurance system for processing via wireless or cellular communication protocols. In some embodiments the data may be transmitted automatically under control of a mobile application installed or operated on a mobile device associated with the customer.

In addition to mobile device data static data may be collected at . Static data may include personal information associated with a customer such as their medical history level of physical fitness etc. In addition to or instead of collecting data from mobile devices and local static data servers data may also be purchased or obtained from a third party at . The purchased data may be used to supplement the mobile device data or may be used to validate or debug the system.

The data is analyzed processed and aggregated at . The aggregated data may be generated into reports which can then be provided to interested parties at below . Data processing may include applying algorithms to the collected data which may be in its raw form to obtain values of interest. For example raw sensor data may be noise filtered. In response to insured customer providing the data about their driving patterns or other driving related information the insurance company can favorably alter the terms of the insurance policy such as decreasing the premium or deductible.

At the insured customer provides the driving pattern data to the insurance company. In some embodiments simply based on the customer s willingness to provide the data and without receiving the actual data the insurance company may grant discounts to the insured at . In deciding to alter the terms of the insurance policy the insurance company or the third party evaluator may compare the mobile device data as determined from the mobile device of the insured to a comparative baseline. The process of may be repeated on a regular basis and a similar process may be applied for a plurality of insured customers. In some embodiments the process may be used to price and issue policies for new customers as well.

Reference is now made to which is a high level flow chart of a method carried out by the system of in processing requests for insurance. The method begins at with the receipt of a request to insure a driver. As described above the request may be received by an insurance company from a mobile device such as the mobile device described in conjunction with or an agent employee terminal. The system then requests and obtains information about the customer and the vehicle to be insured at . The information is obtained in part through requests posed to the customer or insurance agent or employee assisting the customer. Additional information is obtained through the third party data vendors and from the central database . Pursuant to some embodiments many of the questions posed to the customer are presented to the consumer by an application on the mobile device which is provided by the insurance company.

In some situations a prospective insured customer may be required to agree to provide driving pattern data associated with the customer s driving patterns in order to qualify for a policy or to qualify for good driver discounts etc . Insurance products that incorporate the use of collected driving pattern data in pricing and underwriting enable insurance companies to insure customers that might otherwise be outside of their appetite. That is the risks presented by insuring a particular customer or vehicle operated by the customer may be too large for an insurance company to accept unless it is actively able to monitor the operation of a vehicle or driving characteristics of a customer. Thus in one embodiment after obtaining basic information about the vehicle and customer at the system determines whether driving pattern data is needed for making a final insurability decision at . The system may determine that driving pattern data is unnecessary for example if the insurer determines that no amount of driving pattern data will bring the requested policy within the appetite of the insurance company resulting in the request for being denied at .

Insurance products using collected driving pattern data for adjusting premiums may also be used to reward customers that use operate and maintain insured property safely. Thus in some circumstances collection of driving pattern data is not necessary but instead is merely an option provided to customers that may lead to lower premiums. In such situations the decision at may be skipped and the method proceeds directly from the receipt of basic customer and vehicle information at to determining whether driving pattern data is available at . Driving pattern data may be provided via a mobile device such as the mobile device described above.

If at determination at indicates that existing driving pattern data is not available the insurance company in one embodiment may offer the customer insurance during a probationary period at during which the insurance company can obtain baseline driving pattern data at on which it can base its underwriting and pricing decision. Depending on the characteristics of the insured vehicle the customer and or the data collected during the probationary period the probationary period may vary in length for example from about one to about three months. For example if the driving pattern data in a first month exhibits a great deal of variability the period may be extended. The driving pattern data can include a number of parameters depending on the type of property to be insured. For example for vehicles the monitored parameters can include speed acceleration braking turning speed blinker usage driving time of day mileage driving location seat belt usage and number of passengers. Raw vehicle operation data can be combined with location data to determine relevant speed limits presence of stop signs and other relevant location based traffic laws and a driver s adherence thereto. Other useful specific information may be derived from collected location data including for example traffic patterns road quality incline and decline grades crime rates weather conditions and patterns and accident rates. The parameters can also include data indicating the condition of the vehicle including without limitation oil level tire pressure engine temperature brake condition fuel level and the status of warning light indicators. The monitored parameters may also include activity levels associated with the vehicles including for example how often items e.g. radio speed control headlights or alarm systems within the vehicle are used as well occupancy and useage rates for the vehicle. The premium offered by the insurance company during the probationary period is likely higher than the premium that would be paid during a non probationary coverage period unless the data collected during the probationary period suggests the risks of issuing a non provisional policy are substantially higher than expected based on the non driving pattern related information collected prior to the probationary policy.

The insurance company then analyzes the driving pattern data made available at or collected at at . The exact analysis process as described further below is determined dynamically based on the driving pattern data collected information about the customer and or information about the vehicle being insured. For example the analysis may take into account different monitored parameters or take into account the same parameters to different extents. Preferably the analysis is carried out using one or more predictive models such as statistical models neural networks expert systems or other forms of artificial intelligence.

Based on the analysis carried out at the insurance company decides whether to offer insurance to the customer under the terms requested by the customer at and if so calculates a premium for such a policy at . The premium may be calculated holistically for an entire policy or separately for each coverage e.g. collision comprehensive medical uninsured motorist physical damage bodily injury rental and or towing requested in the policy. In one embodiment the analysis of collected data at the decision to offer or deny insurance at and the determination of a premium at constitute a single process carried out by the computing systems of the insurance company . In alternative implementations the underwriting decision and the pricing calculation are carried out separately in series.

After determining a premium for the policy at the system forwards an offer for insurance to the mobile device or employee agent terminal at . If the customer rejects the offer at for example due to the premium being higher than desired or if the insurance company declines to offer insurance at the process ends. If the offer is accepted at the insurance company issues an insurance policy covering the customer and the vehicle at . After the policy is issued the insurance company either directly or through a monitoring service may continue to monitor the output of the sensors associated with the mobile device . Based on the results of the monitoring the insurance company occasionally or periodically may adjust the premium charged to the customer. The premium change if any preferably uses the same artificial intelligence used to set the initial premium. The premium change may affect the premium charged in future periods in prior periods e.g. through issuance of a refund or surcharge or in a current period depending on the specific implementation of the method. Alternatively the premium change may only affect the premium charged for a renewal policy after the expiration of the current policy term.

While others have suggested utilizing data collected from sensors monitoring vehicles for insurance underwriting and pricing the prior methods have failed to adequately take into account the fact that sensor data is not equally relevant to all insurance customers and all property requested to be insured. The following illustrative underwriting and premium pricing processes demonstrate that such distinctions can be made to achieve a more accurate insurance determination. The following processes are one example of pricing and underwriting processes that may be used in conjunction with some embodiments in part or in whole . Further features of the risk scoring and pricing methods described above may be used in conjunction with the processes of to perform pricing premium adjustment and underwriting.

The first process determines whether and to what extent a driver s braking behavior effects whether the vehicle should be insured and at what cost. According to the process this determination is based on characteristics of the vehicle for example its size and its breaking system. Drivers with a habit of abrupt braking are at a greater risk of collisions resulting from a failure to stop. Larger vehicles require greater distances to stop and cause more damage upon impact. These factors combined make the risk associated with insuring larger vehicles with less efficient brakes greater than the risk associated with insuring smaller vehicles with better brakes. The risk posed by large vehicles can be mitigated however if the vehicle is driven with safer braking habits. The braking data may be collected using a mobile device such as the device described above e.g. via a Bluetooth or other collection of braking data from an automobile computer system which is then forwarded to insurance company via the mobile device .

To translate these general principles into practical insurance decisions a rule based classifier in the insurance company computer systems can be programmed with a set of rules that place a request to insure a vehicle into one of three categories braking behavior is irrelevant braking behavior is relevant and braking behavior is important. For example compact cars with anti lock brakes are assigned by the rule based classifier into the first category. Trucks with anti lock brakes and mid sized sedans with ordinary disk brakes fall into the second category. Trucks with standard disk brakes fall into the third category.

Based on the category into which the vehicle is categorized and actual data collected about the braking behavior of drivers of the vehicle an underwriting and pricing impact is calculated. In one embodiment the underwriting portion of the process includes a kill question. That is there is a threshold which if met would demand denial of the request for insurance coverage regardless of what other parameters may be. For example for vehicles in the third category i.e. those with the greatest risk of collisions resulting from a failure to stop an insurance request is killed if sensor data indicates that the vehicle stops abruptly on average more than once per day. If a request is killed the customer is notified and further processing of the request is cancelled avoiding unnecessary processing.

If the request for insurance survives the kill question of process a pricing result and an underwriting result are generated based on the category and observed braking behavior. For vehicles falling into the first category braking behavior is ignored in making the pricing and underwriting decision as braking behavior will have little impact on the risk posed by the vehicle. For vehicles that fall into the second category safe braking habits may yield a small credit and a positive underwriting result. Poor braking habits may yield a small premium surcharge and a somewhat negative underwriting result. For vehicles in the third category safe braking habits may yield a more significant premium credit as a greater portion of the risk associated with insuring such a vehicle is managed well by the driver. Poor braking habits if not sufficiently poor to surpass the kill threshold may result in a substantial premium surcharge and negative underwriting result.

While in the illustrative process a vehicle s size and braking system impact only the way in which the computer systems of the insurance company manipulates a single collected data parameter i.e. braking behavior. The same factors may be used to dictate the way in which the computer systems of the insurance company manipulate other collected data parameters including for example speed or acceleration. The rules used to assign a vehicle to a braking behavior category may be identical to those used to assign the vehicle to speed or acceleration categories. Alternatively the business logic computer may implement separate classification rules for each collected data parameter. Particularly in this second case the business logic computer may take one set of collected data parameters into account if the vehicle has a first characteristic e.g. it has anti lock brakes and a second set of collected data parameters into account if the vehicle has a second characteristic e.g. it has disc or drum brakes . Other vehicle characteristics that may be employed as determinants of the impact of various collected data parameters include without limitation vehicle safety ratings engine size color cargo capacity and age. In insuring buildings characteristics of the buildings that may be used as determinants of the impact of collected data parameters include building age construction location and use.

The second process determines if and to what extent the average speed at which a vehicle is driven impacts the insurance pricing and underwriting decision. In the illustrative process the determination is based on a characteristic of an owner seeking to insure the vehicle. Such characteristic might be for example the driver s age and or driving record. These characteristics are analyzed by another rule based classifier to assign insurance requests into three categories. In the first category speed is considered irrelevant in the second category speed is relevant and in the third category speed is considered important. As in the first process the request for insurance is considered in light of the category and the actual data observed by the sensors monitoring the vehicle. Analysis of the actual vehicle speed may result in killing the request or it may result in a range of pricing and underwriting results as described above.

As with the first process the characteristic of the entity seeking to insure the vehicle i.e. its owner and driver may impact the way the computer systems of the insurance company manipulate multiple collected data parameters. For example the age of the owner may also dictate the way the business logic computer takes into account the time of day during which the vehicle is driven and or the acceleration behavior detected by sensors monitoring the vehicle. For example for a vehicle owned by a minor the business logic computer may ignore the time of day during which the vehicle is driven consider the vehicle s speed for example the average speed maximum speed and or a actual speed posted speed limit differential important and the vehicle s acceleration only relevant. Alternatively for a teen driver number of passengers and the day of week and time of day of driving may be important. In contrast for an elderly vehicle owner operator the business logic computer may ignore acceleration behavior consider speed relevant and time of day important. Thus based on the value of this one characteristic of the entity seeking insurance different sets of collected data parameters may be taken into account in making underwriting and pricing determinations. Additional characteristics of an entity that may be employed as determinants of the way in which the computer systems manipulate collected data parameters in making underwriting and pricing decisions include without limitation driving history gender and for commercial vehicles the line of business in which the entity is involved.

The third process determines if and to what extent the steering behavior with which a vehicle is driven impacts the insurance pricing and underwriting decision. In the illustrative process the determination is based on sensor data collected from monitoring the vehicle. Relevant data parameters might include for example the speed at which the vehicle is driven. For example erratic or frequent steering at high speeds may be indicative of aggressive highway lane changing or reckless turning.

Speed is analyzed by a third rule based classifier to assign insurance requests into three steering behavior categories. For example in one implementation the third rule based classifier assigns requests based on average speed. If average speed falls below 45 miles per hour a vehicle is assigned to a first category. If average speed falls between 46 miles per hour and 60 miles per hour the vehicle is assigned to a second category and if the average speed exceeds 60 miles per hour the vehicle is assigned to the third category. In an alternative implementation the third rule based classifier assigns requests based on the frequency of the vehicle speeding i.e. driving above a posted speed limit . In another alternative implementation the third rule based classifier assigns requests based on the average speed of the vehicle in relation to the speed of nearby vehicles determined for example by sonar laser radar or other ranging technology incorporated in the vehicle.

Pursuant to some embodiments the risk score calculated pursuant to some embodiments and described above in conjunction with e.g. may be used as a factor category or classifier in performing the analysis of .

In the first category steering behavior is considered irrelevant in the second category steering behavior is relevant and in the third category steering behavior is considered important. Subsequently the request for insurance is considered in light of the category and the actual vehicle steering behavior observed by the sensors monitoring the vehicle. Analysis of the actual steering behavior may result in killing the request or it may result in a range of pricing and underwriting results as described above. As with the other processes and the value of a collected data parameter may govern the application of and weight assigned to more than one other collected data parameter. Additional data parameters that may be employed as determinants of the way in which the business logic computer manipulates those data parameters or others in making underwriting and pricing decisions include without limitation driving location how often the vehicle is used and the environment e.g. weather conditions in which the vehicle is driven.

Finally according to a fourth process a base price and underwriting determination are made based purely on information related to the customer and intended drivers of the vehicle and information about the vehicle itself. The information utilized for this process is obtained from the web pages presented by the insurance company along with information garnered from the third party data sources based on the information submitted through the web pages.

In a particular implementation each process results in an absolute price determination and an underwriting score. So long as the sum of the underwriting scores stays within a specified range the insurance company offers insurance coverage to the customer. If the number falls outside of the specified range insurance coverage is denied. In determining the absolute costs for the first three processes and each category is associated with a multiplier. For example the process may add a surcharge determined by the following equation Surcharge multiplier.times. 100 average number of abrupt braking incidents per day. As indicated above in the first category braking is deemed irrelevant and therefore the multiplier associated with the first category is zero. The multiplier associated with the second category is 1.0 and the multiplier associated with the third category is equal to 2.0. The speed related surcharge is determined as follows Surcharge multiplier 10.00 average speed 55 mph . In this case the multiplier associated with the first category is zero. The multiplier associated with the second category is 1.0 and the multiplier associated with the third category is 3.5. In alternative implementations the categories may be associated with exponent values log values or other modifiers or functions to apply to the value of the data parameter in question instead of a simple multiplier.

In practice an actual pricing and underwriting process may have fewer than four or more than four underwriting and pricing processes. In addition while the processes describe assigning insurance requests to one of three categories in practice the processes may assign requests to one of four five ten twenty or more categories. In addition the equations for determining premium modifications may be substantially more complicated.

The customer list data table includes a list of the customers served by the insurance company with an associated customer ID used for identification purposes in the database. For each customer listed in the customer list data table the database includes a customer policy data table . The customer policy data table lists the various policies issued to the customer along with a corresponding ID and premium value. In the illustrative customer policy data table the premium value is an annual premium value. Alternatively the premium value may be stored for any desired period including premium per day per week per month or per quarter. In one implementation the premium period is selected to correspond to the frequency with which the premium may be adjusted based on the collected sensor data. The premium is determined by the computer systems of the insurance company and forwarded to the database for storage.

For each policy the database includes a policy data table . The policy data table includes data describing the property covered by the policy and if relevant information about users of the property. Such data may include identifying information relevant to premium pricing. For example for a vehicle the policy data table identifies the make model value prior damage vehicle size and braking technology employed by the vehicle. It also includes data about the primary driver of the vehicle including his or her age and a characterization of their driving history.

The set of data tables stored in the database also includes sensor data tables for insured pieces of property. For vehicles the sensor data table may be indexed by vehicle identification number. In the illustrative sensor data table data is stored on a period basis for example as aggregate information for each month of coverage. The sensor data table includes mileage data average speed data average daily maximum speed a number of high acceleration events and a number of abrupt braking events. This data may be fed directly from data uploaded from the sensors or it may first be processed by the computer to generate the aggregate information.

The illustrative data tables also include formula data tables used to calculate premiums based on the data stored elsewhere in the database . For example to calculate the a surcharge resulting from braking behavior a braking formula table includes a list of braking categories with corresponding ranges that define membership in the category as well as corresponding formulas for calculating surcharges based on membership in each respective category. During a pricing or underwriting decision the computer retrieves the appropriate formulas from the formula tables to make its determination. In addition as additional data is collected the system can be retrained based on the new data and new formulas can be stored in the formula data tables . In alternative implementations formulas are encoded directly in the software executed by the computer .

As indicated above the data tables described above are merely illustrative in nature. Various implementations may have fewer or more data tables storing fewer or more parameters without departing from the scope of the invention.

After being assigned to a cluster the loss history of the existing coverages in the cluster are compared to a loss history distribution of the entire universe of coverages. A premium for the new policy is set based on the base premium and where on the distribution of loss histories the assigned cluster falls.

Optionally at step values for intermediate variables that characterize risk are derived from the collected data. At step the intermediate variable values from step may be used to calculate a total risk score associated with the customer or insured vehicle. In one embodiment the risk score is calculated by taking the weighted sum of the intermediate variable values from step where the weights are determined retrospectively e.g. using regression analysis from a database of insured data. Alternatively the total risk score may be computed directly from the data collected at step .

Depending on the value of the computed risk score the risk score may be determined to be unacceptable step acceptable step or desirable . This determination may be done automatically by an insurance company computing system or program such as insurance system computer or may be decided upon by an insurance agent or insurance company employee. Although there are only three categories shown in the figure the risk score may be characterized into any number of categories or may be considered a continuous real number.

If the risk score is decided to be unacceptable then the customer may be denied an insurance policy at step . If a policy already exists a renewal may be declined. If the risk score is decided to be acceptable or desirable appropriate modifications if any to premiums based on the risk score may be determined at step . The premium may be reduced if the risk score is favorable or it may be increased if the risk score is unfavorable though still acceptable . The premium may not be altered at all if the risk score is moderate or inconclusive. Furthermore different types of coverage policies such as general liability or worker s compensation may be selectively offered or denied in response to the risk score.

At step any modifications made in step may be combined with premium determinations made based on risk factors unrelated to the policy in a separate underwriting process. The final policy may then be issued at step .

If the data collected at step changes during the term of an issued insurance policy at step the risk score may be reevaluated based on the new data. Accordingly the insurance policy may be modified and reissued or even canceled. Reevaluation of risk may occur in real time as data is collected in real time or may occur at discrete time intervals throughout the term of the policy. Steps may thus be repeated many times during the term of an insurance policy.

Thus embodiments of the present invention may improve the information available to vehicle operators to alert them of higher risk areas as well as the information available to insurers to allow them to price analyze and underwrite policies. Although the present invention has been described in connection with specific exemplary embodiments it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations apparent to those skilled in the art can be made to the disclosed embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

