---

title: 2-carboxamide cycloamino ureas
abstract: 

and salts thereof, wherein the substituents are as defined in the description, to compositions and use of the compounds in the treatment of diseases ameliorated by inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08357707&OS=08357707&RS=08357707
owner: Novartis AG
number: 08357707
owner_city: Basel
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100702
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 270 028 filed 2 Jul. 2009 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to substituted 2 carboxamide cycloamino ureas as new phosphatidylinositol PI 3 kinase inhibitor compounds their pharmaceutically acceptable salts prodrugs thereof and processes for their production. This invention also relates to compositions of these compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent and optionally in combination with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. This invention still further relates to methods of use of these compounds either alone or in combination with at least one additional therapeutic agent in the prophylaxis or treatment of a number of diseases in particular those mediated by one or more of abnormal activity of growth factors receptor tyrosine kinases protein serine heroine kinases G protein coupled receptors and phospholipid kinases and phosphatases.

Phosphatidylinositol 3 kinases PI3Ks comprise a family of lipid kinases that catalyze the transfer of phosphate to the D 3 position of inositol lipids to produce phosphoinositol 3 phosphate PIP phosphoinositol 3 4 diphosphate PIP and phosphoinositol 3 4 5 triphosphate PIP that in turn act as second messengers in signaling cascades by docking proteins containing pleckstrin homology FYVE Phox and other phospholipid binding domains into a variety of signaling complexes often at the plasma membrane Vanhaesebroeck et al. 70 535 2001 Katso et al. 17 615 2001 . Of the two Class 1 PI3Ks Class 1A PI3Ks are heterodimers composed of a catalytic p110 subunit isoforms constitutively associated with a regulatory subunit that can be p85 p55 p50 p85 or p55 . The Class 1B sub class has one family member a heterodimer composed of a catalytic p110 subunit associated with one of two regulatory subunits p101 or p84 Fruman et al. 67 481 1998 Suire et al. 15 566 2005 . The modular domains of the p85 55 50 subunits include Src Homology SH2 domains that bind phosphotyrosine residues in a specific sequence context on activated receptor and cytoplasmic tyrosine kinases resulting in activation and localization of Class 1A PI3Ks. Class 1B PI3K is activated directly by G protein coupled receptors that bind a diverse repertoire of peptide and non peptide ligands Stephens et al. 89 105 1997 Katso et al. 17 615 675 2001 . Consequently the resultant phospholipid products of class I PI3K link upstream receptors with downstream cellular activities including proliferation survival chemotaxis cellular trafficking motility metabolism inflammatory and allergic responses transcription and translation Cantley et al. 64 281 1991 Escobedo and Williams 335 85 1988 Fantl et al. 69 413 1992 .

In many cases PIP2 and PIP3 recruit Akt the product of the human homologue of the viral oncogene v Akt to the plasma membrane where it acts as a nodal point for many intracellular signaling pathways important for growth and survival Fantl et al. 69 413 423 1992 Bader et al. 5 921 2005 Vivanco and Sawyer 2 489 2002 . Aberrant regulation of PI3K which often increases survival through Akt activation is one of the most prevalent events in human cancer and has been shown to occur at multiple levels. The tumor suppressor gene PTEN which dephosphorylates phosphoinositides at the 3 position of the inositol ring and in so doing antagonizes PI3K activity is functionally deleted in a variety of tumors. In other tumors the genes for the p110 isoform PIK3CA and for Akt are amplified and increased protein expression of their gene products has been demonstrated in several human cancers. Furthermore mutations and translocation of p85 that serve to up regulate the p85 p110 complex have been described in human cancers. Finally somatic missense mutations in PIK3CA that activate downstream signaling pathways have been described at significant frequencies in a wide diversity of human cancers Kang at el. 102 802 2005 Samuels et al. 304 554 2004 Samuels et al. 7 561 573 2005 . These observations show that deregulation of phosphoinositol 3 kinase and the upstream and downstream components of this signaling pathway is one of the most common deregulations associated with human cancers and proliferative diseases Parsons et al. 436 792 2005 Hennessey at el. 4 988 1004 2005 .

In view of the above inhibitors of PI3Ks would be of particular value in the treatment of proliferative disease and other disorders. Selectivity towards the PI3K isoform is desirable and further desirable properties include improved pharmacokinetic properties and or chemical stability.

WO2004 096797 discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3 kinase and their use as pharmaceutical.

WO 2005 021519 also discloses certain thiazole derivatives as inhibitors of PI3 kinase and their use as pharmaceutical.

It has now been found that the 2 carboxamide cycloamino ureas of the formula I given below have advantageous pharmacological properties and inhibit for example the PI3 kinases phosphatidylinositol 3 kinase . In particular preferably these compounds show selectivity for PI3K alpha versus beta and or delta and or gamma subtypes in the biochemical and or in the cellular assay. A further property which is preferably desirable for compounds of formula I includes improved stability for example improved chemical stability e.g. in solid form and or in buffer solution. Hence the compounds of formula I are suitable for example to be used in the treatment of diseases depending on the PI3 kinase in particular PI3K alpha such as those showing somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN especially proliferative diseases such as tumor diseases and leukemias.

The invention may be more fully appreciated by reference to the following description including the following glossary of terms and the concluding examples. As used herein the terms including containing and comprising are used herein in their open non limiting sense.

Any formula given herein is intended to represent compounds having structures depicted by the structural formula as well as certain variations or forms. In particular compounds of any formula given herein may have asymmetric centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms such as different enantiomeric forms. If at least one asymmetrical carbon atom is present in a compound of the formula I such a compound may exist in optically active form or in the form of a mixture of optical isomers e. g. in the form of a racemic mixture. Thus an asymmetric carbon atom may be present in the R S or R S configuration preferably in the R or S configuration. All optical isomers and their mixtures including the racemic mixtures are part of the present invention. Thus any given formula given herein is intended to represent a racemate one or more enantiomeric forms one or more diastereomeric forms one or more atropisomeric forms and mixtures thereof.

Furthermore certain structures may exist as geometric isomers e.g. cis and trans isomers as tautomers or as atropisomers. For example substituents at a double bond or a ring may be present in cis Z or trans E form. The compounds of the invention may thus be present as mixtures of isomers or preferably as pure isomers preferably as enantiomer pure diastereomers or pure enantiomers.

Any formula given herein is intended to represent hydrates solvates and polymorphs of such compounds and mixtures thereof.

Any formula given herein is also intended to represent unlabeled forms as well as isotopically labeled forms of the compounds. Isotopically labeled compounds have structures depicted by the formulas given herein except that one or more atoms are replaced by an atom having a selected atomic mass or mass number. Examples of isotopes that can be incorporated into compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous fluorine and chlorine such as H H C C C N P P F S Cl I respectively. Various isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention for example those into which radioactive isotopes such as H C and C are incorporated. Such isotopically labelled compounds are useful in metabolic studies preferably with C reaction kinetic studies with for example H or H detection or imaging techniques such as positron emission tomography PET or single photon emission computed tomography SPECT including drug or substrate tissue distribution assays or in radioactive treatment of patients. In particular an F or labeled compound may be particularly preferred for PET or SPECT studies. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements. Isotopically labeled compounds of this invention and prodrugs thereof can generally be prepared by carrying out the procedures disclosed in the schemes or in the examples and preparations described below by substituting a readily available isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

Further substitution with heavier isotopes particularly deuterium i.e. H or D may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability for example increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements or an improvement in therapeutic index. It is understood that deuterium in this context is regarded as a substituent in the compound of the formula I . The concentration of such a heavier isotope specifically deuterium may be defined by the isotopic enrichment factor. The term isotopic enrichment factor as used herein means the ratio between the isotopic abundance and the natural abundance of a specified isotope. If a substituent in a compound of this invention is denoted deuterium such compound has an isotopic enrichment factor for each designated deuterium atom of at least 3500 52.5 deuterium incorporation at each designated deuterium atom at least 4000 60 deuterium incorporation at least 4500 67.5 deuterium incorporation at least 5000 75 deuterium incorporation at least 5500 82.5 deuterium incorporation at least 6000 90 deuterium incorporation at least 6333.3 95 deuterium incorporation at least 6466.7 97 deuterium incorporation at least 6600 99 deuterium incorporation or at least 6633.3 99.5 deuterium incorporation . In the compounds of this invention any atom not specifically designated as a particular isotope is meant to represent any stable isotope of that atom. Unless otherwise stated when a position is designated specifically as H or hydrogen the position is understood to have hydrogen at its natural abundance isotopic composition. Accordingly in the compounds of this invention any atom specifically designated as a deuterium D is meant to represent deuterium for example in the ranges given above.

When referring to any formula given herein the selection of a particular moiety from a list of possible species for a specified variable is not intended to define the moiety for the variable appearing elsewhere. In other words where a variable appears more than once the choice of the species from a specified list is independent of the choice of the species for the same variable elsewhere in the formula where one or more up to all more general expressions in embodiments characterized as preferred above or below can be replaced with a more specific definition thus leading to a more preferred embodiment of the invention respectively .

Where the plural form e.g. compounds salts pharmaceutical preparations diseases and the like is used this includes the singular e.g. a single compound a single salt a single pharmaceutical preparation a single disease and the like . A compound does not exclude that e.g. in a pharmaceutical formulation more than one compound of the formula I or a salt thereof is present.

Salts are preferably the pharmaceutically acceptable salts of compounds of formula I if they are carrying salt forming groups. Acids bases required to form the salts are generally known in the field.

Halogen or halo denotes fluorine bromine chlorine or iodine in particular fluorine chlorine. Halogen substituted groups and moieties such as alkyl substituted by halogen halogenalkyl can be mono poly or per halogenated.

Hetero atoms are atoms other than Carbon and Hydrogen preferably nitrogen N oxygen O or sulfur S in particular nitrogen.

 Alkyl refers to a straight chain or branched chain alkyl group and includes Calkyl and more preferably Calkyl. Such alkyl groups include for example methyl ethyl n or iso propyl n iso sec or tert butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl with particular preference given to methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl and iso butyl. Alkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted. Exemplary substituents include but are not limited to hydroxy alkoxy halogen especially fluoro amino and di substituted amino mono or di alkyl substituted amino acetylamino morpholinyl aryl. An example of a substituted alkyl is trifluoromethyl. Cycloalkyl may also be a substituent to alkyl. An example of such a case is the moiety alkyl cycloalkyl such as alkyl cyclopropyl or alkyl cyclobutyl e.g. methyl cyclopropyl or methyl cyclobutyl. A more specific example of an alkyl cycloalkyl moiety includes geminal type of substitution pattern e.g. 1 alkyl cycloalkyl such as 1 methyl cyclopropyl. Another example of cycloalkyl as a substituent to alkyl is alkandiyl cycloalkyl such as alkandiyl cyclopropyl e.g. CH cyclopropyl. C C alkyl is alkyl with from and including 1 up to and including 7 carbon atoms preferably from and including 1 up to and including 4 carbon atoms C C alkyl and is linear or branched preferably lower alkyl is butyl such as n butyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl propyl such as n propyl or isopropyl ethyl or preferably methyl.

Each alkyl part of other groups like alkoxy alkoxyalkyl alkoxycarbonyl alkoxy carbonylalkyl alkylsulfonyl alkylsulfoxyl alkylamino halogenalkyl shall have the same meaning as described in the above mentioned definition of alkyl .

 C Cycloalkyl refers to a saturated or partially saturated monocyclic fused polycyclic or Spiro polycyclic carbocycle having from 3 to 7 ring atoms per carbocycle. Illustrative examples of cycloalkyl groups include the following moieties cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclpentyl and cylclohexyl. C C cycloalkyl may be unsubstituted or substituted exemplary substituents are provided in the definition for alkyl. C C cycloalkyl may also be a substituent on other groups e.g. on an alkyl group.

 Aryl refers to an unsaturated carbocyclic aromatic ring system preferably having a ring system of not more than 16 carbon atoms especially not more than 10 carbon atoms e.g. having 6 to 16 preferably 6 to 10 ring carbon atoms is preferably mono or bi cyclic and is unsubstituted or substituted. For example aryl is unsubstituted or substituted phenyl.

 Heterocyclyl refers to a heterocyclic radical that is unsaturated in particular maximally unsaturated eg. carrying the highest possible number of conjugated double bonds in the ring s e.g. heteroaryl saturated or partially saturated in the bonding ring and is preferably a monocyclic or in a broader aspect of the invention bicyclic ring has 3 16 ring atoms more preferably 4 10 ring atoms wherein at least in the ring bonding to the radical of the molecule of formula I one or more preferably 1 4 ring atoms especially one or two ring atoms are a heteroatom selected from the group consisting of nitrogen oxygen and sulfur the bonding ring preferably having 4 12 ring atoms especially 4 7 ring atoms for example 6 10 ring atoms especially for heteroaryl such as 5 6 9 or 10 ring atoms. The heterocyclyl may be unsubstituted or substituted by one or more especially 1 to 3 substituents independently selected from the group consisting of alkyl or the substituents defined above for substituted alkyl and or from one or more of the following substituents oxo O thiocarbonyl S imino NH imino lower alkyl and for nitrogen containing heteroaryls including N oxides thereof.

 Treatment includes prophylactic preventive and therapeutic treatment as well as the delay of progression of a disease or disorder.

 PI3 kinase mediated diseases especially PI3K alpha mediated diseases are especially such disorders that respond in a beneficial way e.g. amelioration of one or more symptoms delay of the onset of a disease up to temporary or complete cure from a disease to the inhibition of a PI3 kinase especially inhibition of PI3Kalpha where the diseases to be treated may include those showing somatic mutation of PIK3CA or germline mutations or somatic mutation of PTEN . Diseases to be treated include especially proliferative diseases such as tumor diseases including solid tumors leukemias glioblastoma breast cancer and prostate cancer may be mentioned .

 Salts which what is meant by or salts thereof or or a salt thereof can be present alone or in mixture with free compound of the formula I and are preferably pharmaceutically acceptable salts. Salt forming groups in a compound of formula I are groups or radicals having basic or acidic properties. Compounds having at least one basic group or at least one basic radical e.g. amino a secondary amino group not forming a peptide bond or a pyridyl radical may form acid addition salts e.g. with inorganic acids such as hydrochloric acid sulfuric acid or a phosphoric acid or with suitable organic carboxylic or sulfonic acids e.g. aliphatic mono or di carboxylic acids such as trifluoroacetic acid acetic acid propionic acid glycolic acid succinic acid maleic acid fumaric acid hydroxymaleic acid malic acid tartaric acid citric acid or oxalic acid or amino acids such as arginine or lysine aromatic carboxylic acids such as benzoic acid 2 phenoxy benzoic acid 2 acetoxy benzoic acid salicylic acid 4 aminosalicylic acid aromatic aliphatic carboxylic acids such as mandelic acid or cinnamic acid heteroaromatic carboxylic acids such as nicotinic acid or isonicotinic acid aliphatic sulfonic acids such as methane ethane or 2 hydroxyethanesulfonic acid or aromatic sulfonic acids e.g. benzene p toluene or naphthalene 2 sulfonic acid. When several basic groups are present mono or poly acid addition salts may be formed.

Compounds of formula I having acidic groups a carboxy group or a phenolic hydroxy group may form metal or ammonium salts such as alkali metal or alkaline earth metal salts e.g. sodium potassium magnesium or calcium salts or ammonium salts with ammonia or suitable organic amines such as tertiary monoamines e.g. triethylamine or tri 2 hydroxyethyl amine or heterocyclic bases e.g. N ethyl piperidine or N N dimethylpiperazine. Mixtures of salts are possible.

For isolation or purification purposes it is also possible to use pharmaceutically unacceptable salts for example picrates or perchlorates. For therapeutic use only pharmaceutically acceptable salts or free compounds are employed where applicable in the form of pharmaceutical preparations and these are therefore preferred. In view of the close relationship between the novel compounds in free form and those in the form of their salts including those salts that can be used as intermediates for example in the purification or identification of the novel compounds any reference to the free compounds hereinbefore and hereinafter is to be understood as referring also to the corresponding salts as appropriate and expedient.

Compounds of the present invention may also form solvates and hydrates and as such any reference to a compound of formula I is therefore to be understood as referring also to the corresponding solvate and or hydrate of the compound of formula I as appropriate and expedient.

The present invention also relates to pro drugs of a compound of formula I that convert in vivo to the compound of formula I as such. Any reference to a compound of formula I is therefore to be understood as referring also to the corresponding pro drugs of the compound of formula I as appropriate and expedient.

Combination refers to either a fixed combination in one dosage unit form or a kit of parts for the combined administration where a compound of the formula I and a combination partner e.g. an other drug as explained below also referred to as therapeutic agent or co agent may be administered independently at the same time or separately within time intervals especially where these time intervals allow that the combination partners show a cooperative e.g. synergistic effect. The terms co administration or combined administration or the like as utilized herein are meant to encompass administration of the selected combination partner to a single subject in need thereof e.g. a patient and are intended to include treatment regimens in which the agents are not necessarily administered by the same route of administration or at the same time. The term pharmaceutical combination as used herein means a product that results from the mixing or combining of more than one active ingredient and includes both fixed and non fixed combinations of the active ingredients. The term fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of formula I and a combination partner are both administered to a patient simultaneously in the form of a single entity or dosage. The term non fixed combination means that the active ingredients e.g. a compound of formula I and a combination partner are both administered to a patient as separate entities either simultaneously concurrently or sequentially with no specific time limits wherein such administration provides therapeutically effective levels of the two compounds in the body of the patient. The latter also applies to cocktail therapy e.g. the administration of three or more active ingredients.

In preferred embodiments which are preferred independently collectively or in any combination or sub combination the invention relates to a compound of the formula I in free base form or in salt form wherein the substituents are as defined herein.

As shown in formula I the alpha amide substituent is at the 2 position on the pyrrolidine ring and the stereochemistry at this position is as drawn.

The ring A is preferably an unsubstituted or substituted 5 or 6 membered heterocyclic preferably a heteroaryl ring containing 1 or 2 heteroatoms selected from N S or O wherein at least one heteroatom is N.

More preferably ring A is selected from an unsubstituted or substituted pyridine ring unsubstituted or substituted pyrimidine ring unsubstituted or substituted thiazole ring unsubstituted or substituted pyrazole ring or unsubstituted or substituted oxazole ring. More preferred is an unsubstituted or substituted pyridine ring unsubstituted or substituted pyrimidine ring or unsubstituted or substituted thiazole ring.

Ring A is preferably substituted by one two or three Rgroups preferably two Rgroups most preferably one Rgroup independently selected at each occurrence from 

More preferably Ris selected from methyl t butyl diethylamino cyclopropylmethyl 2 fluoro 1 1 dimethylethyl or 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl.

In another embodiment Ris selected from methyl t butyl diethylamino cyclopropylmethyl or 2 fluoro 1 1 dimethylethyl.

An embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein n is 0 or 1. Preferably n is 1.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein q is 0 that is wherein the nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring is substituted only by the amide at position 2. In this embodiment it is preferred that n is 0 or 1 more preferably 1.

Another embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein q is 1 that is wherein the nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring is substituted only by the amide at position 2 and a single Rgroup. In this embodiment it is preferred that n is 0 or 1 more preferably 1. In this embodiment the Rgroup may be substituted at position 2 i.e. on the same carbon as that which is substituted by the amide group or position 3 or position 4 or position 5 of the nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring.

Preferably in this embodiment the Rgroup is substituted at position 3 of the nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring i.e. compounds of formula IA 

Preferably in compounds of formula IA n is 1 thus providing compounds wherein the nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring is a pyrrolidine ring substituted at the 2 position by an amide having the drawn stereochemistry and in the 3 position by an Rgroup.

Preferably the Rgroup has a stereochemistry which is cis to the amide at position 2 i.e. compounds according to formula IA 

Preferably in compounds of formula IA n is 1 thus providing compounds wherein the nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring is a pyrrolidine ring substituted at the 2 position by an amide having the drawn stereochemistry and in the 3 position by an Rgroup having the drawn stereochemisty thus the amide and Rgroups are cis relative to each other.

A further embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein q is 2 or 3 thus at least two Rsubstituents are present each Rindependently selected from the groups defined as for formula I herein. In this embodiment it is preferred that at least each of two Ris bonded at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring and an optional third Rgroup if present is bonded elsewhere on the nitrogen containing heterocyclic ring. It is further preferred that n is 1 and the third Rgroup if present is bonded at the 4 or 5 position of the resultant pyrrolidine ring i.e. to provide compounds of formula IB 

In compounds according to formula IB it is preferred that the third Ris bonded at position 4 of the pyrrolidine ring.

A further embodiment of the present invention includes compounds of the formula I wherein n is 1 and wherein two Rgroups are bonded at position 3 of the pyrrolidine ring and together form an alkandiyl preferably a C C cycloalkyl in particular a cyclopropyl i.e. to provide compounds of formula IC 

In any of the formulae IA IA IB or IC the preferred definitions if not otherwise stated for ring A X Y Rand n can also apply.

The invention further relates to pharmaceutically acceptable prodrugs of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC .

The invention further relates to pharmaceutically acceptable metabolites of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC .

The invention relates especially to the compounds of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC given in the Examples as well as the methods of manufacture described herein.

The present invention also relates to processes for the production of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC . In principle all known processes which convert two different amines into a corresponding urea derivative are suitable and may be applied by using the respective starting material.

Thus the invention in particular relates to a process which comprises reacting a compound of formula II

in each case optionally in the presence of a diluent and optionally in the presence of a reaction aid and

recovering the resulting compound of formula I in free form or in form of a salt and optionally converting a compound of the formula I obtainable according to method A or method B into a different compound of the formula I and or converting an obtainable salt of a compound of the formula I into a different salt thereof and or converting an obtainable free compound of the formula I into a salt thereof and or separating an obtainable isomer of a compound of the formula I from one or more different obtainable isomers of the formula I.

The process may be performed according to methods known in the art or as disclosed below in the Examples. For example a compound of formula II may be reacted with a compound of formula IIIA or IIIB in a solvent e.g. dimethylformamide in the presence of a base e.g. an organic amine e.g. triethylamine.

Where temperatures are given hereinbefore or hereinafter about has to be added as minor deviations from the numeric values given e.g. variations of 10 are typically tolerable. All reactions may take place in the presence of one or more diluents and or solvents. The starting materials may be used in equimolar amounts alternatively a compound may be used in excess e.g. to function as a solvent or to shift equilibrium or to generally accelerate reaction rates.

Reaction aids such as acids bases or catalysts may be added in suitable amounts as known in the field required by a reaction and in line with generally known procedures.

If one or more other functional groups for example carboxy hydroxy amino sulfhydryl or the like are or need to be protected in a starting material as described herein or any other precursor because they should not take part in the reaction or disturb the reaction these are such groups as are usually used in the synthesis of peptide compounds and also of cephalosporins and penicillins as well as nucleic acid derivatives and sugars. Protecting groups are such groups that are no longer present in the final compounds once they are removed while groups that remain as substituents are not protecting groups in the sense used here which are groups that are added at a starting material or intermediate stage and removed to obtain a final compound. Also in the case of conversions of a compound of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC into a different compound of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC protecting groups may be introduced and removed if useful or required. The protecting groups may already be present in precursors and should protect the functional groups concerned against unwanted secondary reactions such as acylations etherifications esterifications oxidations solvolysis and similar reactions. It is a characteristic of protecting groups that they lend themselves readily i.e. without undesired secondary reactions to removal typically by acetolysis protonolysis solvolysis reduction photolysis or also by enzyme activity for example under conditions analogous to physiological conditions and that they are not present in the end products. The specialist knows or can easily establish which protecting groups are suitable with the reactions mentioned above and below.

The protection of such functional groups by such protecting groups the protecting groups themselves and their removal reactions are described for example in standard reference works such as J. F. W. McOmie Protective Groups in Organic Chemistry Plenum Press London and New York 1973 in T. W. Greene Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis Third edition Wiley New York 1999 in The Peptides Volume 3 editors E. Gross and J. Meienhofer Academic Press London and New York 1981 in Methoden der organischen Chemie Houben Weyl 4th edition Volume 15 l Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974 in H. D. Jakubke and H. Jescheit Aminos uren Peptide Proteine Verlag Chemie Weinheim Deerfield Beach and Basel 1982 and in Jochen Lehmann Chemie der Kohlenhydrate Monosaccharide and Derivate Georg Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974.

A compound of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC may be converted into a different compound of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC .

In a compound of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC wherein a substituent carries an amino or amino C C alkyl substituent the amino can be converted into acylamino e.g. C C alkanoylamino by reaction with a corresponding C C alkanoylhalogenide e.g. a corresponding chloride in the presence of a tertiary nitrogen base such as triethylamine or pyridine in the absence or presence of an appropriate solvent such a methylene chloride for example at temperatures in the range from 20 to 50 C. e.g. at about room temperature.

Salts of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC with a salt forming group may be prepared in a manner known per se. Acid addition salts of compounds of formula I IA IA IB and or IC may thus be obtained by treatment with an acid or with a suitable anion exchange reagent. A salt with two acid molecules for example a dihalogenide of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC may also be converted into a salt with one acid molecule per compound for example a monohalogenide this may be done by heating to a melt or for example by heating as a solid under a high vacuum at elevated temperature for example from 130 to 170 C. one molecule of the acid being expelled per molecule of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC . Salts can usually be converted to free compounds e.g. by treating with suitable basic compounds for example with alkali metal carbonates alkali metal hydrogencarbonates or alkali metal hydroxides typically potassium carbonate or sodium hydroxide.

Stereoisomeric mixtures e.g. mixtures of diastereomers can be separated into their corresponding isomers in a manner known per se by means of suitable separation methods. Diastereomeric mixtures for example may be separated into their individual diastereomers by means of fractionated crystallization chromatography solvent distribution and similar procedures. This separation may take place either at the level of a starting compound or in a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC itself. Enantiomers may be separated through the formation of diastereomeric salts for example by salt formation with an enantiomer pure chiral acid or by means of chromatography for example by HPLC using chromatographic substrates with chiral ligands.

It should be emphasized that reactions analogous to the conversions mentioned herein may also take place at the level of appropriate intermediates and are thus useful in the preparation of corresponding starting materials .

The starting materials of the formulae II and III as well as other starting materials mentioned herein e.g. below can be prepared according to or in analogy to methods that are known in the art are known in the art and or are commercially available. Insofar as the production of the starting materials is not particularly described the compounds are either known or may be prepared analogously to methods known in the art e.g. in WO 05 021519 or WO04 096797 or as disclosed hereinafter. Novel starting materials as well as processes for the preparation thereof are likewise an embodiment of the present invention. In the preferred embodiments such starting materials are used and the reaction chosen are selected so as to enable the preferred compounds to be obtained.

In the starting materials including intermediates which may also be used and or obtained as salts where appropriate and expedient the substituents are preferably as defined for a compound of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC .

In other embodiments the condition or disorder e.g. PI3K mediated is selected from the group consisting of an epidermal hyperproliferation prostate hyperplasia a neoplasia a neoplasia of epithelial character Cowden syndrome Lhermitte Dudos disease or Bannayan Zonana syndrome asthma COPD ARDS Loffler s syndrome eosinophilic pneumonia parasitic in particular metazoan infestation including tropical eosinophilia bronchopulmonary aspergillosis polyarteritis nodosa including Churg Strauss syndrome eosinophilic granuloma eosinophil related disorders affecting the airways occasioned by drug reaction psoriasis contact dermatitis atopic dermatitis alopecia areata erythema multiforme dermatitis herpetiformis scleroderma vitiligo hypersensitivity angiitis urticaria bullous pemphigoid lupus erythematosus pemphisus epidermolysis bullosa acquisita autoimmune haematogical disorders e.g. haemolytic anaemia aplastic anaemia pure red cell anaemia and idiopathic thrombocytopenia systemic lupus erythematosus polychondritis scleroderma Wegener granulomatosis dermatomyositis chronic active hepatitis myasthenia gravis Steven Johnson syndrome idiopathic sprue autoimmune inflammatory bowel disease e.g. ulcerative colitis and Crohn s disease endocrine opthalmopathy Grave s disease sarcoidosis alveolitis chronic hypersensitivity pneumonitis multiple sclerosis primary biliary cirrhosis uveitis anterior and posterior interstitial lung fibrosis psoriatic arthritis glomerulonephritis cardiovascular diseases atherosclerosis hypertension deep venous thrombosis stroke myocardial infarction unstable angina thromboembolism pulmonary embolism thrombolytic diseases acute arterial ischemia peripheral thrombotic occlusions and coronary artery disease reperfusion injuries retinopathy such as diabetic retinopathy or hyperbaric oxygen induced retinopathy and conditions characterized by elevated intraocular pressure or secretion of ocular aqueous humor such as glaucoma.

For the above uses the required dosage will of course vary depending on the mode of administration the particular condition to be treated and the effect desired. In general satisfactory results are indicated to be obtained systemically at daily dosages of from about 0.03 to 10.0 mg kg per body weight. An indicated daily dosage in the larger mammal e.g. humans is in the range from about 0.5 mg to about 1 g conveniently administered for example in divided doses up to four times a day or in retard form. Suitable unit dosage forms for oral administration comprise from ca. 0.1 to 500 mg active ingredient.

The compounds of formula I IA IA IB and or IC may be administered by any conventional route in particular enterally e.g. orally e.g. in the form of tablets or capsules or parenterally e.g. in the form of injectable solutions or suspensions topically e.g. in the form of lotions gels ointments or creams by inhalation intranasally or in a suppository form.

The compounds of formula I IA IA IB and or IC may be administered in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form e.g. as indicated above. Such salts may be prepared in conventional manner and exhibit the same order of activity as the free compounds.

PI3K serves as a second messenger node that integrates parallel signaling pathways evidence is emerging that the combination of a PI3K inhibitor with inhibitors of other pathways will be useful in treating cancer and proliferative diseases in humans. Approximately 20 30 of human breast cancers overexpress Her 2 neu ErbB2 the target for the drug trastuzumab. Although trastuzumab has demonstrated durable responses in some patients expressing Her2 neu ErbB2 only a subset of these patients respond. Recent work has indicated that this limited response rate can be substantially improved by the combination of trastuzumab with inhibitors of PI3K or the PI3K AKT pathway Chan et al. Breast Can. Res. Treat. 91 187 2005 Woods Ignatoski et al. Brit. J. Cancer 82 666 2000 Nagata et al. Cancer Cell 6 117 2004 .

A variety of human malignancies express activitating mutations or increased levels of Her1 EGFR and a number of antibody and small molecule inhibitors have been developed against this receptor tyrosine kinase including tarceva gefitinib and erbitux. However while EGFR inhibitors demonstrate anti tumor activity in certain human tumors e.g. NSCLC they fail to increase overall patient survival in all patients with EGFR expressing tumors. This may be rationalized by the fact that many downstream targets of Her1 EGFR are mutated or deregulated at high frequencies in a variety of malignancies including the PI3K Akt pathway. For example gefitinib inhibits the growth of an adenocarcinoma cell line in in vitro assays. Nonetheless sub clones of these cell lines can be selected that are resistant to gefitinib that demonstrate increased activation of the PI3 Akt pathway. Down regulation or inhibition of this pathway renders the resistant sub clones sensitive to gefitinib Kokubo et al. Brit. J. Cancer 92 1711 2005 . Furthermore in an in vitro model of breast cancer with a cell line that harbors a PTEN mutation and over expresses EGFR inhibition of both the PI3K Akt pathway and EGFR produced a synergistic effect She et al. Cancer Cell 8 287 297 2005 . These results indicate that the combination of gefitinib and PI3K Akt pathway inhibitors would be an attractive therapeutic strategy in cancer.

The combination of AEE778 an inhibitor of Her 2 neu ErbB2 VEGFR and EGFR and RAD001 an inhibitor of mTOR a downstream target of Akt produced greater combined efficacy that either agent alone in a glioblastoma xenograft model Goudar et al. Mol. Cancer. Ther. 4 101 112 2005 .

Anti estrogens such as tamoxifen inhibit breast cancer growth through induction of cell cycle arrest that requires the action of the cell cycle inhibitor p27Kip. Recently it has been shown that activation of the Ras Raf MAP Kinase pathway alters the phosphorylation status of p27Kip such that its inhibitory activity in arresting the cell cycle is attenuated thereby contributing to anti estrogen resistance Donovan et al J. Biol. Chem. 276 40888 2001 . As reported by Donovan et al. inhibition of MAPK signaling through treatment with MEK inhibitor reversed the aberrant phosphorylation status of p27 in hormone refractory breast cancer cell lines and in so doing restored hormone sensitivity. Similarly phosphorylation of p27Kip by Akt also abrogates its role to arrest the cell cycle Viglietto et al. Nat Med. 8 1145 2002 .

Accordingly the present invention provides in a further aspect compounds of formulae I IA IA IB and or IC for use in the treatment of hormone dependent cancers such as breast and prostate cancers. By this use it is aimed to reverse hormone resistance commonly seen in these cancers with conventional anticancer agents.

In hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML chromosomal translocation is responsible for the constitutively activated BCR Abl tyrosine kinase. The afflicted patients are responsive to imatinib a small molecule tyrosine kinase inhibitor as a result of inhibition of Abl kinase activity. However many patients with advanced stage disease respond to imatinib initially but then relapse later due to resistance conferring mutations in the Abl kinase domain. In vitro studies have demonstrated that BCR Ab1 employs the Ras Raf kinase pathway to elicit its effects. In addition inhibiting more than one kinase in the same pathway provides additional protection against resistance conferring mutations.

Accordingly in another aspect the present invention provides the compounds of formulae I IA IA IB and or IC for use in combination with at least one additional agent selected from the group of kinase inhibitors such as Gleevec in the treatment of hematological cancers such as chronic myelogenous leukemia CML . By this use it is aimed to reverse or prevent resistance to said at least one additional agent.

Because activation of the PI3K Akt pathway drives cell survival inhibition of the pathway in combination with therapies that drive apoptosis in cancer cells including radiotherapy and chemotherapy will result in improved responses Ghobrial et al. C A Cancer J. Clin 55 178 194 2005 . As an example combination of PI3 kinase inhibitor with carboplatin demonstrated synergistic effects in both in vitro proliferation and apoptosis assays as well as in in vivo tumor efficacy in a xenograft model of ovarian cancer Westfall and Skinner Mol. Cancer Ther. 4 1764 1771 2005 .

In addition to cancer and proliferative diseases there is accumulating evidence that inhibitors of Class 1A and 1B PI3 kinases would be therapeutically useful in others disease areas. The inhibition of p110 the PI3K isoform product of the PIK3CB gene has been shown to be involved in shear induced platelet activation Jackson et al. Nature Medicine 11 507 514 2005 . Thus a PI3K inhibitor that inhibits p110 would be useful as a single agent or in combination in anti thrombotic therapy. The isoform p110 the product of the PIK3CD gene is important in B cell function and differentiation Clayton et al. J. Exp. Med. 196 753 763 2002 T cell dependent and independent antigen responses Jou et al. Mol. Cell. Biol. 22 8580 8590 2002 and mast cell differentiation Ali et al. Nature 431 1007 1011 2004 . Thus it is expected that p110 inhibitors would be useful in the treatment of B cell driven autoimmune diseases and asthma. Finally the inhibition of p110 the isoform product of the PI3KCG gene results in reduced T but not B cell response Reif et al. J. Immunol. 173 2236 2240 2004 and its inhibition demonstrates efficacy in animal models of autoimmune diseases Camps et al. Nature Medicine 11 936 943 2005 Barber et al. Nature Medicine 11 933 935 2005 .

The invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC together with a pharmaceutically acceptable excepient suitable for administration to a human or animal subject either alone or together with another therapeutic agent for example another anticancer agent.

The invention further provides methods of treating human or animal subjects suffering from a cellular proliferative disease such as cancer. The invention thus provides methods of treating a human or animal subject in need of such treatment comprising administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC either alone or in combination with one or more other therapeutic agents e.g. other anticancer agents. In particular compositions will either be formulated together as a combination therapeutic or administered separately. Suitable anticancer agents for use with a compound of formula I include but are not limited to one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of kinase inhibitors anti estrogens anti androgens other inhibitors cancer chemotherapeutic drugs alkylating agents chelating agents biological response modifiers cancer vaccines agents for antisense therapy as set forth below 

A. Kinase Inhibitors Kinase inhibitors for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with a compound of the formula I IA IA IB and or IC include inhibitors of Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor EGFR kinases such as small molecule quinazolines for example gefitinib U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 457 105 5 616 582 and 5 770 599 ZD 6474 WO 01 32651 erlotinib Tarceva U.S. Pat. No. 5 747 498 and WO 96 30347 and lapatinib U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 256 and WO 02 02552 Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor VEGFR kinase inhibitors including SU 11248 WO 01 60814 SU 5416 U.S. Pat. No. 5 883 113 and WO 99 61422 SU 6668 U.S. Pat. No. 5 883 113 and WO 99 61422 CHIR 258 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 605 617 and 6 774 237 vatalanib or PTK 787 U.S. Pat. No. 6 258 812 VEGF Trap WO 02 57423 B43 Genistein WO 09606116 fenretinide retinoic acid p hydroxyphenylamine U.S. Pat. No. 4 323 581 IM 862 WO 02 62826 bevacizumab or Avastin WO 94 10202 KRN 951 3 5 methylsulfonylpiperadine methyl indolyl quinolone AG 13736 and AG 13925 pyrrolo 2 1 f 1 2 4 triazines ZK 304709 Veglin VMDA 3601 EG 004 CEP 701 U.S. Pat. No. 5 621 100 Cand5 WO 04 09769 Erb2 tyrosine kinase inhibitors such as pertuzumab WO 01 00245 trastuzumab and rituximab Akt protein kinase inhibitors such as RX 0201 Protein Kinase C PKC inhibitors such as LY 317615 WO 95 17182 and perifosine US 2003171303 Raf Map MEK Ras kinase inhibitors including sorafenib BAY 43 9006 ARQ 350RP LErafAON BMS 354825 AMG 548 and others disclosed in WO 03 82272 Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor FGFR kinase inhibitors Cell Dependent Kinase CDK inhibitors including CYC 202 or roscovitine WO 97 20842 and WO 99 02162 Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor PDGFR kinase inhibitors such as CHIR 258 3G3 mAb AG 13736 SU 11248 and SU6668 and Bcr Abl kinase inhibitors and fusion proteins such as STI 571 or Gleevec imatinib .

B. Anti Estrogens Estrogen targeting agents for use in anticancer therapy in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include Selective Estrogen Receptor Modulators SERMs including tamoxifen toremifene raloxifene aromatase inhibitors including Arimidex or anastrozole Estrogen Receptor Downregulators ERDs including Faslodex or fulvestrant.

C. Anti Androgens Androgen targeting agents for use in anticancer therapy in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include flutamide bicalutamide finasteride aminoglutethamide ketoconazole and corticosteroids.

D. Other Inhibitors Other inhibitors for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include protein farnesyl transferase inhibitors including tipifarnib or R 115777 US 2003134846 and WO 97 21701 BMS 214662 AZD 3409 and FTI 277 topoisomerase inhibitors including merbarone and diflomotecan BN 80915 mitotic kinesin spindle protein KSP inhibitors including SB 743921 and MKI 833 proteasome modulators such as bortezomib or Velcade U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 454 XL 784 and cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 inhibitors including non steroidal antiinflammatory drugs I NSAIDs .

E. Cancer Chemotherapeutic Drugs Particular cancer chemotherapeutic agents for use as anticancer agents in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include anastrozole Arimidex bicalutamide Casodex bleomycin sulfate Blenoxane busulfan Myleran busulfan injection Busulfex capecitabine Xeloda N4 pentoxycarbonyl 5 deoxy 5 fluorocytidine carboplatin Paraplatin carmustine BiCNU chlorambucil Leukeran cisplatin Platinol cladribine Leustatin cyclophosphamide Cytoxan or Neosar cytarabine cytosine arabinoside Cytosar U cytarabine liposome injection DepoCyt dacarbazine DTIC Dome dactinomycin Actinomycin D Cosmegan daunorubicin hydrochloride Cerubidine daunorubicin citrate liposome injection DaunoXome dexamethasone docetaxel Taxotere US 2004073044 doxorubicin hydrochloride Adriamycin Rubex etoposide Vepesid fludarabine phosphate Fludara 5 fluorouracil Adrucil Efudex flutamide Eulexin tezacitibine Gemcitabine difluorodeoxycitidine hydroxyurea Hydrea Idarubicin Idamycin ifosfamide IFEX irinotecan Camptosar L asparaginase ELSPAR leucovorin calcium melphalan Alkeran 6 mercaptopurine Purinethol methotrexate Folex mitoxantrone Novantrone mylotarg paclitaxel Taxol phoenix Yttrium90 MX DTPA pentostatin polifeprosan 20 with carmustine implant Gliadel tamoxifen citrate Nolvadex teniposide Vumon 6 thioguanine thiotepa tirapazamine Tirazone topotecan hydrochloride for injection Hycamptin vinblastine Velban vincristine Oncovin and vinorelbine Navelbin .

F. Alkylating Agents Alkylating agents for use in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include VNP 40101M or cloretizine oxaliplatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 169 846 WO 03 24978 and WO 03 04505 glufosfamide mafosfamide etopophos U.S. Pat. No. 5 041 424 prednimustine treosulfan busulfan irofluven acylfulvene penclomedine pyrazoloacridine PD 115934 O6 benzylguanine decitabine 5 aza 2 deoxycytidine brostallicin mitomycin C MitoExtra TLK 286 Telcyta temozolomide trabectedin U.S. Pat. No. 5 478 932 AP 5280 Platinate formulation of Cisplatin porfiromycin and clearazide meclorethamine .

G. Chelating Agents Chelating agents for use in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include tetrathiomolybdate WO 01 60814 RP 697 Chimeric T84.66 cT84.66 gadofosveset Vasovist deferoxamine and bleomycin optionally in combination with electorporation EPT .

H. Biological Response Modifiers Biological response modifiers such as immune modulators for use in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include staurosprine and macrocyclic analogs thereof including UCN 01 CEP 701 and midostaurin see WO 02 30941 WO 97 07081 WO 89 07105 U.S. Pat. No. 5 621 100 WO 93 07153 WO 01 04125 WO 02 30941 WO 93 08809 WO 94 06799 WO 00 27422 WO 96 13506 and WO 88 07045 squalamine WO 01 79255 DA 9601 WO 98 04541 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 025 387 alemtuzumab interferons e.g. IFN a IFN b etc. interleukins specifically IL 2 or aldesleukin as well as IL 1 IL 3 IL 4 IL 5 IL 6 IL 7 IL 8 IL 9 IL 10 IL 11 IL 12 and active biological variants thereof having amino acid sequences greater than 70 of the native human sequence altretamine Hexalen SU 101 or leflunomide WO 04 06834 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 331 555 imidazoquinolines such as resiquimod and imiquimod U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 689 338 5 389 640 5 268 376 4 929 624 5 266 575 5 352 784 5 494 916 5 482 936 5 346 905 5 395 937 5 238 944 and 5 525 612 and SMIPs including benzazoles anthraquinones thiosemicarbazones and tryptanthrins WO 04 87153 WO 04 64759 and WO 04 60308 .

I. Cancer Vaccines Anticancer vaccines for use in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC include Avicine Tetrahedron Lett. 26 2269 70 1974 oregovomab OvaRex Theratope STn KLH Melanoma Vaccines GI 4000 series GI 4014 GI 4015 and GI 4016 which are directed to five mutations in the Ras protein GlioVax 1 MelaVax Advexin or INGN 201 WO 95 12660 Sig E7 LAMP 1 encoding HPV 16 E7 MAGE 3 Vaccine or M3TK WO 94 05304 HER 2VAX ACTIVE which stimulates T cells specific for tumors GM CSF cancer vaccine and Listeria monocytogenes based vaccines.

J. Antisense Therapy Anticancer agents for use in conjunction with a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC also include antisense compositions such as AEG 35156 GEM 640 AP 12009 and AP 11014 TGF beta2 specific antisense oligonucleotides AVI 4126 AVI 4557 AVI 4472 oblimersen Genasense JFS2 aprinocarsen WO 97 29780 GTI 2040 R2 ribonucleotide reductase mRNA antisense oligo WO 98 05769 GTI 2501 WO 98 05769 liposome encapsulated c Raf antisense oligodeoxynucleotides LErafAON WO 98 43095 and Sirna 027 RNAi based therapeutic targeting VEGFR 1 mRNA .

A compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC may also be combined in a pharmaceutical composition with bronchiodilatory or antihistamine drugs substances. Such bronchiodilatory drugs include anticholinergic or antimuscarinic agents in particular glycopyrrolate ipratropium bromide oxitropium bromide and tiotropium bromide OrM3 aclidinium CHF5407 GSK233705 and 2 adrenoreceptor agonists such as salbutamol terbutaline salmeterol carmoterol milveterol and especially indacaterol and formoterol. Co therapeutic antihistamine drug substances include cetirizine hydrochloride clemastine fumarate promethazine loratadine desloratadine diphenhydramine and fexofenadine hydrochloride.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of a thrombolytic disease heart disease stroke etc. Such compounds include aspirin a streptokinase a tissue plasminogen activator a urokinase a anticoagulant antiplatelet drugs e.g PLAVIX clopidogrel bisulfate a statin e.g. LIPITOR or Atorvastatin calcium ZOCOR Simvastatin CRESTOR Rosuvastatin etc. a Beta blocker e.g. Atenolol NORVASC amlodipine besylate and an ACE inhibitor e.g. lisinopril .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and one or more compounds that are useful for the treatment of antihypertension. Such compounds include ACE inhibitors lipid lowering agents such as statins LIPITOR Atorvastatin calcium calcium channel blockers such as NORVASC amlodipine besylate .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and one or more compounds selected from the group consisting of fibrates beta blockers NEPI inhibitors Angiotensin 2 receptor antagonists and platelet aggregation inhibitors.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and a compound suitable for the treatment of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of TNF inhibitors such as anti TNF monoclonal antibodies such as REMICADE CDP 870 and D2E7 HUMIRA and TNF receptor immunoglobulin fusion molecules such as ENBREL IL 1 inhibitors receptor antagonists or soluble IL 1R e.g. KINERET or ICE inhibitors nonsterodial anti inflammatory agents NSAIDS piroxicam diclofenac naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen ibuprofen fenamates mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones phenylbutazone aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as CELEBREX celecoxib PREXIGE lumiracoxib metalloprotease inhibitors preferably MMP 13 selective inhibitors p2 7 inhibitors 2inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin low dose methotrexate leflunomide hydroxyxchloroquine d penicillamine auranofin or parenteral or oral gold.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and a compound suitable for the treatment of osteoarthritis. Such compound may be selected from the group consisting of standard non steroidal anti inflammatory agents hereinafter NSAID s such as piroxicam diclofenac propionic acids such as naproxen flurbiprofen fenoprofen ketoprofen and ibuprofen fenamates such as mefenamic acid indomethacin sulindac apazone pyrazolones such as phenylbutazone salicylates such as aspirin COX 2 inhibitors such as celecoxib valdecoxib lumiracoxib and etoricoxib analgesics and intraarticular therapies such as corticosteroids and hyaluronic acids such as hyalgan and synvisc.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and an antiviral agent and or an antisepsis compound. Such antiviral agent may be selected from the group consisting of Viracept AZT acyclovir and famciclovir. Such antisepsis compound may be selected from the group consisting of Valant.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and one or more agents selected from the group consisting of CNS agents such as antidepressants sertraline anti Parkinsonian drugs such as deprenyl L dopa Requip Mirapex MAOB inhibitors such as selegine and rasagiline comP inhibitors such as Tasmar A 2 inhibitors dopamine reuptake inhibitors NMDA antagonists Nicotine agonists Dopamine agonists and inhibitors of neuronal nitric oxide synthase .

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and one or more anti Alzheimer s drugs. Such anti Alzheimer Drug may be selected from the group consisting of donepezil tacrine 2 inhibitors NEUROTIN pregabalin COX 2 inhibitors propentofylline or metryfonate.

The invention provides in a further aspect a combination comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and anosteoporosis agents and or an immunosuppressant agent. Such osteoporosis agents ma be selected from the group consisting of EVISTA raloxifene hydrochloride droloxifene lasofoxifene or fosomax. Such immunosuppressant agents may be selected from the group consisting of FK 506 and rapamycin.

In another aspect of the preferred embodiments kits that include one or more compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and a combination partner as disclosed herein are provided. Representative kits include a PI3K inhibitor compound e.g. a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and a package insert or other labeling including directions for treating a cellular proliferative disease by administering a PI3K inhibitory amount of the compound s .

In general the compounds of formula I IA IA IB and or IC will be administered in a therapeutically effective amount by any of the accepted modes of administration for agents that serve similar utilities. The actual amount of the compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC i.e. the active ingredient will depend upon numerous factors such as the severity of the disease to be treated the age and relative health of the subject the potency of the compound used the route and form of administration and other factors. The drug can be administered more than once a day preferably once or twice a day. All of these factors are within the skill of the attending clinician. Therapeutically effective amounts of compounds of formulas I may range from about 0.05 to about 50 mg per kilogram body weight of the recipient per day preferably about 0.1 25 mg kg day more preferably from about 0.5 to 10 mg kg day. Thus for administration to a 70 kg person the dosage range would most preferably be about 35 70 mg per day.

In general compounds of formula I IA IA IB and or IC will be administered as pharmaceutical compositions by any one of the following routes oral systemic e.g. transdermal intranasal or by suppository or parenteral e.g. intramuscular intravenous or subcutaneous administration. The preferred manner of administration is oral using a convenient daily dosage regimen that can be adjusted according to the degree of affliction. Compositions can take the form of tablets pills capsules semisolids powders sustained release formulations solutions suspensions elixirs aerosols or any other appropriate compositions. Another preferred manner for administering compounds of the formula I is inhalation. This is an effective method for delivering a therapeutic agent directly to the respiratory tract.

The choice of formulation depends on various factors such as the mode of drug administration and bioavailability of the drug substance. For delivery via inhalation the compound can be formulated as liquid solution suspensions aerosol propellants or dry powder and loaded into a suitable dispenser for administration. There are several types of pharmaceutical inhalation devices nebulizer inhalers metered dose inhalers MDI and dry powder inhalers DPI . Nebulizer devices produce a stream of high velocity air that causes the therapeutic agents which are formulated in a liquid form to spray as a mist that is carried into the patient s respiratory tract. MDI s typically are formulation packaged with a compressed gas. Upon actuation the device discharges a measured amount of therapeutic agent by compressed gas thus affording a reliable method of administering a set amount of agent. DPI dispenses therapeutic agents in the form of a free flowing powder that can be dispersed in the patient s inspiratory air stream during breathing by the device. In order to achieve a free flowing powder the therapeutic agent is formulated with an excipient such as lactose. A measured amount of the therapeutic agent is stored in a capsule form and is dispensed with each actuation.

The inventions also relates to formulations wherein the particle size of a compound of formula I between 10 1000 nm preferably 10 400 nm. Such pharmaceutical formulations have been developed especially for drugs that show poor bioavailability based upon the principle that bioavailability can be increased by increasing the surface area i.e. decreasing particle size. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 107 288 describes a pharmaceutical formulation having particles in the size range from 10 to 1 000 nm in which the active material is supported on a crosslinked matrix of macromolecules. U.S. Pat. No. 5 145 684 describes the production of a pharmaceutical formulation in which the drug substance is pulverized to nanoparticles average particle size of 400 nm in the presence of a surface modifier and then dispersed in a liquid medium to give a pharmaceutical formulation that exhibits remarkably high bioavailability. Both documents are included by reference.

In a further aspect the invention provides pharmaceutical compositions comprising a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient. Acceptable excipients are non toxic aid administration and do not adversely affect the therapeutic benefit of the compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC . Such excipient may be any solid liquid semi solid or in the case of an aerosol composition gaseous excipient that is generally available to one of skill in the art.

Solid pharmaceutical excipients include starch cellulose talc glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel magnesium stearate sodium stearate glycerol monostearate sodium chloride dried skim milk and the like.

Liquid and semisolid excipients may be selected from glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and various oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin e.g. peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil etc. Preferred liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions include water saline aqueous dextrose and glycols.

Compressed gases may be used to disperse a compound of the formula I in aerosol form. Inert gases suitable for this purpose are nitrogen carbon dioxide etc. Other suitable pharmaceutical excipients and their formulations are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences edited by E. W. Martin Mack Publishing Company 18th ed. 1990 .

The amount of the compound in a formulation can vary within the full range employed by those skilled in the art. Typically the formulation will contain on a weight percent wt basis from about 0.01 99.99 wt of a compound of formula I based on the total formulation with the balance being one or more suitable pharmaceutical excipients. Preferably the compound is present at a level of about 1 80 wt .

The invention further relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising i.e. containing or consisting of at least one compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable excipient.

Pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable excipient such as a carrier and or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing the components.

Combined pharmaceutical compositions comprising a compound of formula I IA IA IB and or IC in free form or in pharmaceutically acceptable salt form and further comprising a combination partner either in one dosage unit form or as a kit of parts in association with at least one pharmaceutical acceptable carrier and or diluent may be manufactured in conventional manner by mixing with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and or diluent with said active ingredients.

The following examples of compounds formula I IA IA IB and or IC illustrate the invention without limiting the scope thereof. Methods for preparing such compounds are described.

Temperatures are measured in degrees Celsius. Unless otherwise indicated the reactions take place at rt and the MS are obtained with ESI. The following HPLC MS methods are used in the preparation and analysis of the Intermediates and Examples 

Method B preparative HPLC Instrument Waters preparative HPLC system column Sunfire Prep C18 OBD 5 micron 30 100 mm temperature 25 C. eluent gradient from 5 100 CHCN in 0.05 aqueous TFA over 20 minutes flow rate 30 ml minute detection UV 254 nm.

Method C preparative HPLC Instrument Waters preparative HPLC system column Sunfire Prep C18 OBD 5 micron 30 100 mm temperature 25 C. eluent gradient from 5 50 CHCN in 0.05 aqueous TFA over 20 minutes flow rate 30 ml minute detection UV 254 nm.

Method D Analytical HPLC Linear gradient 2 100 CHCN 0.1 TFA and HO 0.1 TFA in 5 min 1.5 min 100 CHCN 0.1 TFA detection at 215 nm flow rate 1 mL min at 30 C. Column Nucleosil 100 3 C18 70 4 mm 

Method E preparative HPLC MS Instrument Gilson preparative HPLC system column Sunfire Prep C18 OBD 5 micron 30 100 mm temperature 25 C. eluent gradient from 5 100 CHCN in 0.05 aqueous TFA over 20 minutes flow rate 30 ml minute detection UV 254 nm.

Method F Analytical HPLC Instrument Shimadzu SIL 10A Method Linear gradient 2 100 CHCN 0.1 TFA and HO 0.1 TFA in 4 min 2 min 100 CHCN 0.1 TFA back to 100 CHCN 0.1 TFA in 3 min. detection at 215 nm flow rate 2 mL min at RT.

8 tert Butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 ylamine Stage A.1 0.319 g 1.225 mmol and CDI 278 mg 1.715 mmol were added to DCM 5 ml and DMF 0.25 ml under an argon atm. After 18 h the residue was cooled to 4 C. and the precipitate was collected by filtration. The solid was dried at 50 C. in high vacuo to give the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LCMS t0.95 min and M H 319.0 method A2 for 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl carbamic acid methyl ester the product of the reaction of the title compound with MeOH during the preparation of the sample as MeOH solution.

Intermediate A.1 was obtained by two different routes. Both routes start from 2 amino 5 6 dihydro 4H benzothiazol 7 one and described below 

To a mixture of N 6 1 dimethylamino meth E ylidene 7 oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine Stage A.2 2.2 g 7.90 mmol in 2 methoxyethanol 20 mL was added at rt sodium hydroxide 1.185 g 29.6 mmol and 2 2 dimethyl propionamidine hydrochloride 1.620 g 11.85 mmol . The RM was stirred at 125 C. for 3 h. After cooling to rt the RM was diluted with MeOH adsorbed onto silica gel and purified by flash chromatography CombiFlash Companion system with RediSep silica gel column eluent DCM MeOH Ammonia 95 5 0.5 . LC t3.64 min method D . MS M H 261. 1H NMR in DMSO d 8.24 s 1H 7.70 s 2H 2.89 2.84 m 2H 2.76 2.71 m 2H 1.28 s 9H .

A suspension of 2 amino 5 6 dihydro 4H benzothiazol 7 one 3.5 g 20.81 mmol in dimethoxymethyldimethylamine 12 mL 90 mmol was heated at 100 C. with stirring for 65 h. The RM was then evaporated to dryness in vacuo and the residue was suspended in EtOAc. After 1 h at 4 C. the solid was filtered off washed with EtOAc and then dried under high vacuum at 60 C. to give the pure title product as brown crystals. LC t3.25 min method D . MS M H 279. H NMR in DMSO d 8.40 s 1H 7.23 s 1H 3.15 s 3H 3.05 s 6H 2.97 s 3H 2.91 t 2H 2.67 t 2H .

Potassium carbonate 0.434 g 3.14 mmol was added to a mixture of N 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl acetamide Stage A.3 0.38 g 1.257 mmol in MeOH. The RM was stirred at 50 C. for 52 h then cooled to rt and evaporated in vacuo to give a red mass. Water 20 mL was added and the mixture was stirred at it for a further 3 h. The red suspension was then cooled down to 4 C. and filtered to give after drying under high vacuum the title compound as a beige solid. LCMS t0.99 min and M H 261 method A3 . H NMR in DMSO d 400 MHz 8.24 s 1H 7.70 s 2H 2.89 2.84 m 2H 2.76 2.71 m 2H 1.28 s 9H .

Pyridine 13 mL was added to N 6 formyl 7 oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage A.4 3.05 g 12.8 mmol and tert.butylamidine hydrochloride 1.788 g 12.8 mmol and the mixture was heated in a sealed vessel at 160 C. for 6.5 h. After cooling the reaction mixture was filtered to give a solid. The filtration mother liquor was evaporated to give further solid material. The combined solids were triturated repeatedly with hot CHCN and the CHCN mother liquors evaporated to give a solid which was shown to be predominantly the title product. The crude product was dissolved in ca. 10 ml of a 10 DMSO in MeOH to give a slightly hazy orange solution which was filtered and added dropwise to water 100 ml at it with stirring. The precipitate solid was collected by filtration to give the title compound as an orange solid. LCMS t1.37 min and M H 303.0 method A3 . H NMR in DMSO d 400 MHz 12.40 s 1H 8.44 s 1H 2.88 3.00 m 4H 2.17 s 3H 1.32 s 9H .

LiHMDS solution 1 M 27.7 mL was added over 10 min to a suspension of N 7 oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage A.5 2.0 g 9.23 mmol in dry THF 20 mL cooled at 78 C. under an argon atm. The RM was then stirred at 78 C. for 2.5 h and methyl formate 2.308 mL 36.9 mmol added dropwise over 30 min. The RM was then warmed slowly to rt and was then stirred 18 h at rt. The RM was drown out into aqueous 1 M HCl 70 mL and extracted 3 with DCM dried over NaSOand evaporated to give a the title compound as a solid. HPLC t3.65 min method D . MS M H 237. H NMR in DMSO d 400 MHz 12.50 s br 1H 7.55 s 1H 2.90 2.60 m 4H 2.15 s 3H .

To acetic anhydride 80 mL was added at rt 2 amino 5 6 dihydro 4H benzothiazol 7 one 10 g 59.4 mmol and the resulting suspension was heated to reflux. After 1.75 h stirring at reflux the RM was allowed to cool with stirring and stirred for 18 h at it before further cooling with an ice NaCl bath and a solid was collected by filtration. The solid was then triturated twice with refluxing acetone 10 mL then 15 mL before filtering and drying under vacuum at 40 C. to give the title product as a beige solid. HPLC t3.47 min method D . MS M H 211.1. H NMR in DMSO d 600 MHz 12.55 s br 1H 2.84 t 2H 2.48 t 2H 2.17 s 3H 2.065 qt 2H .

A solution of 2S 4R 4 dimethylamino pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Stage B.1 225 mg and 7 M ammonia in MeOH 7 mL was stood for 18 h at it in a sealed vessel. Evaporation and trituration with EtO gave the title compound as a white solid.

A mixture of 2S 4R 4 dimethylamino pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 2 methyl ester Stage B.2 420 mg 10 palladium on carbon 80 mg and MeOH 10 mL was stirred for 16 h under an atm. of hydrogen. Filtration and evaporation gave the title compound which was used without purification in the following steps.

Sodium cyanoborohydride 200 mg was added to a mixture of 2S 4R 4 amino pyrrolidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 2 methyl ester 400 mg formalin 0.68 ml acetic acid 0.72 ml triethylamine 0.2 ml and MeOH 2 ml and the mixture was stirred for 2 h at rt. The RM was then partitioned between DCM and aqueous NaHCOsolution the DCM layers evaporated and purified by normal phase chromatography eluent gradient from EtOAc to 20 EtOH in EtOAc to give the predominant UV active component. The chromatographied material was taken up with 1 M HCl washed 2 with EtO the aqueous layer basified with NaHCO 3 extracted with EtO dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.

To a mixture of 2 amino 8 N N diethylamino 4 5 dihydrothiazolo 4 5 h quinazoline Stage C.1 1 g 3.63 mmol in DCM 35 mL was added CDI 1.178 g 7.26 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 90 h. After cooling to rt the solid was collected by filtration to give the title compound. HPLC t4.11 min method D . MS M H 334 for 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl carbamic acid methyl ester as the product of the reaction of the title compound with MeOH.

To N 6 1 dimethylamino meth E ylidene 7 oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl N N dimethyl formamidine Stage A.2 1 g 3.59 mmol in 2 methoxyethanol 10 mL was added NaOH 0.539 g 13.47 mmol and N N diethylguanidine 0.454 g 3.94 mmol under argon at rt. The RM was stirred for 3.5 h at 125 C. and then cooled to rt. After evaporation in vacuo the residue was dissolved in 0.1 M HCl 50 mL and washed with EtOAc. The aqueous layer was then basified with 6 N NaOH and extracted 3 with EtOAc. the organic layers were dried over NaSO evaporated and dried under high vacuum at 60 C. to give the title compound as orange crystals. LC t3.60 min method D . MS M H 276. 1H NMR in DMSO d6 7.91 s 1H 7.59 s 2H 3.50 q 4H 2.69 dd 4H 1.07 t 6H .

A 4 M solution of HCl in 1 4 dioxan 1.5 mL was added to a suspension of 2S 3S 3 methylpyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 0.5 g in EtOH 5 mL at rt and the mixture heated at reflux for 20 h. The RM was evaporated and a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH 5.6 mL added. The RM was stood at it for 6 days then evaporated the residue triturated with MeOH 0.5 mL and filtered and washed with cold MeOH 2 mL to give the title compound as a white solid. H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 8.06 s 1H 7.67 s 1H 3.60 d 1H 3.25 3.14 m 2H 2.24 2.15 m 1H 2.09 1.98 m 1H 1.57 1.45 m 1H 1.13 d 3H .

A mixture of 3R 7aR 7a benzyl 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1one 1.40 g prepared as described by Wang and Germanas 1999 33 36. and 7 M ammonia in MeOH 15 ml was heated at 50 C. for 3 days in a sealed vessel. The cooled RM was then evaporated and triturated with chloroform to give the title compound as a white solid.

A solution of S 2 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid butyl ester Stage F.1 2.3 g in a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH 22.2 ml was heated in a bomb at 70 C. for 10 days. Evaporation of the RM and trituration with hexanes 20 mL gave the title compound as an off white solid. H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 7.40 s 1H 6.89 s 1H 2.95 2.84 m 1H 2.72 2.60 m 1H 2.06 1.95 m 1H 1.66 1.44 m 2H 1.42 1.30 m 1H 1.22 s 3H .

Concentrated HCl 2 ml was added to a suspension of S 2 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 2 g in butan 1 ol 50 ml which was heated at 60 C. for 18 h then at reflux for 4 days. The RM was evaporated partitioned between saturated aqueous NaHCOand DCM extracted 3 with DCM dried over NaSOand evaporated. The isolated oil was then kugelrohr distilled at 10 mbar to give the title compound as a clear colorless oil from the fraction distilling at an oven temperature of 100 120 C.

A mixture of 3R 7aR 7a methoxymethyl 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one Stage G.1 0.6 g and 7 M ammonia in MeOH 6 mL was stood at rt for 2 days in a sealed vessel. The RM was then evaporated to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil which was used without further purification.

A 1M of solution of lithium diisopropylamide in a 3 5 mixture of hexanes THF 8.25 ml was added dropwise to 3R 7aS 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one 1.51 g prepared as described by Wang and Germanas 1999 33 36. in THF 5 ml at 78 C. After stirring 30 minutes at 78 C. methoxymethylchloride 1.14 ml was added. The RM was then allowed to warm to 30 C. over 3 h and water was added. The aqueous layer was extracted with DCM the combined organic layers evaporated and the residue was then purified by normal phase chromatography eluting with DCM to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil.

A mixture of 3R 7aR 7a dimethylaminomethyl 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one Stage H.1 0.26 g and 7 M ammonia in MeOH 4 mL was heated at 50 C. for 3 days in a sealed vessel. The cooled RM was then evaporated to give the title compound as a brown oil which was used without further purification. MS M H 172.1.

A 1 M of solution of lithium diisopropylamide in a 3 5 mixture of hexanes THF 8.25 ml was added dropwise to 3R 7aS 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one 1.51 g prepared as described by Wang and Germanas 1999 33 36. in THF 5 ml at 78 C. After stirring 30 minutes at 78 C. Eschenmoser s salt 2.78 g was added. The RM was then allowed to warm to 40 C. with vigorous stirring over 1 h and maintained for 2 h at 40 C. Water was then added and the aqueous layer extracted with DCM the combined organic layers dried over NaSOand evaporated. The residue was then purified by normal phase chromatography eluting with a gradient from DCM to 20 EtOAc in DCM to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil M H 301 303 305 3 3 1 .

d 3R 7aR 7a Dimethylaminomethyl 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one Stage I.1 440 mg 1.430 mmol was dissolved in ammonia in MeOH 10.2 mL 71.4 mmol in a sealed vessel and heated at 75 C. for 5 days. The reaction mixture was evaporated and triturated 2 with CHClto give the title product as a pale brown solid.

 3R 7aR 1 Oxo 3 trichloromethyl dihydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazole 7a carbaldehyde obtained as described in 2006 71 1 97 102 1 g 3.67 mmol dimethylamine din THF 1.0 mL 14.09 mmol acetic acid 0.525 mL 9.17 mmol and DCE 4 mL were combined under argon and sodium triacetoxyborohydride 1.089 g 5.14 mmol was added portionwise. After stirring at it for 3 h the RM was taken up in DCM and partitioned with 1 M NaOH extracting once more with DCM. The organic layers were combined then washed twice with water before being dried over NaSO. The solution was evaporated to half of its volume and 1 M HCl in HO was added the layers separated and the aqueous layer washed twice with DCM. The pH of the aqueous layers were adjusted to 8 with saturated NaCOsolution and extracted three times with DCM. The organic layers were dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the desired title product as a pale yellow oil.

 3R 7aR 7a Hydroxymethyl 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one Stage J.1 308 mg 1.122 mmol was added to 7 M ammonia in MeOH 8.014 mL 56.1 mmol under argon and heated at 75 C. in a sealed vessel for 72 h and then evaporated to give the title compound as a viscous pale brown oil which was used without further purification.

Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 544 mg 2.57 mmol was added to 3R 7aR 1 oxo 3 trichloromethyl dihydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazole 7a carbaldehyde obtained as described in 2006 71 1 97 102 500 mg 1.835 mmol in DCE 4 mL . The RM was stirred 18 h at rt then taken up in DCM the organic layer washed with water dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude product was purified using a 20 g RediSep silica gel column eluent DCM to 10 MeOH in DCM to give the title compound as a clear pale yellow oil.

 3R 7aR 7a 3 Fluoro benzyl methyl amino methyl 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one Stage K.1 385 mg 0.973 mmol was added to 7 M ammonia in MeOH 6.950 mL 48.7 mmol under argon and heated in a sealed vessel at 50 C. for 6 days and then at 75 C. for 5 days. The RM was then evaporated and the residue purified by flash chromatography using a 12 g RediSep silica gel column eluent 5 MeOH in DCM to give the title compound as a yellow oil.

Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 889 mg 4.19 mmol was added to a mixture of 3R 7aR 7a 3 fluoro benzylamino methyl 3 trichloromethyl tetrahydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazol 1 one Stage K.2 400 mg 1.048 mmol formaldehyde 37 in HO 0.102 mL 1.36 mmol and acetic acid 0.150 mL 2.62 mmol in DCE 4 mL under an argon atm. After 2 h stirring at rt the RM was partitioned between DCM and water. The combined organic layers were dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the title compound as a pale brown oil which was used without further purification.

Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 544 mg 2.57 mmol was added to 3R 7aR 1 oxo 3 trichloromethyl dihydro pyrrolo 1 2 c oxazole 7a carbaldehyde obtained as described in 2006 71 1 97 102 500 mg 1.835 mmol 3 fluorobenzylamine 0.251 mL 2.20 mmol and acetic acid 0.263 mL 4.59 mmol in DCE 4 mL under an argon atm. The RM was stirred at rt for 3 h then partitioned between water and DCM the combined organic dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil which was used without further purification.

A mixture of S 2 carbamoyl azetidine 1 carboxylic acid benzyl ester Stage L.1 1.8 g and 10 palladium on carbon 0.2 g in MeOH 25 ml was stirred under a hydrogen atm. at rt for 5 h. Filtration and evaporation gave the title compound which was used without further purification.

A mixture of S azetidine 1 2 dicarboxylic acid 1 benzyl ester 2 methyl ester 2.5 g and 7 M ammonia in MeOH 10 ml was stood at it for 18 h in a sealed vessel. The RM was then evaporated to give the title compound as a white solid which was used without further purification. MS M H 235.1 and M H 233.1.

A 1.25 M solution of HCl in EtOH 2.3 ml was added to a suspension of 2S 4R 4 fluoro pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid 0.25 g in EtOH 2 ml at rt and the mixture heated for 62 h at 55 C. The RM was evaporated and a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH 5.6 ml added. The RM was stood at rt for 36 h then evaporated the residue triturated with MeOH 0.5 ml and filtered to give the title compound as a white solid. H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 7.68 s 1H 7.37 s 1H 5.30 d 1H 3.96 t 1H 3.40 3.12 m 2H 2.48 2.31 m 1H 2.02 1.81 m 1H .

A mixture of 2S 4S 2 carbamoyl 4 fluoro pyrrolidine 1 carboxylic acid tert butyl ester 1.0 g conc. HCl 0.6 ml and 1 butanol 10 ml was heated for 48 h at 50 C. The RM was evaporated and partitioned DCM and aqueous NaHCO the DCM layers were dried over NaSOand evaporated. A solution of 7 M ammonia in methanol 10 ml was added to the residue and the mixture was stood for 60 h at it in a sealed vessel. Evaporation and trituration with EtOH gave the title compound as a white solid.

A mixture of 1S 5R 2 aza bicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 1 carboxylic acid ethyl ester 2.5 g prepared by the procedure of Hercouet 1996 7 1267 1268. and 7 M ammonia in MeOH 20 ml was heated in a sealed vessel at 80 C. for 5 days. The cooled RM was evaporated and triturated with hexanes DCM to give the title compound as a beige solid. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz 7.15 s 1H 7.04 s 1H 3.00 2.91 m 1H 2.67 q 1H 1.94 1.83 m 1H 1.74 1.67 m 1H 1.64 1.55 m 1H 1.38 1.31 m 1H 0.90 t 1H .

 2S 3R 3 Methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage P.1 1.1 g 4.76 mmol and Pd on charcoal 10 0.101 g 0.947 mmol in MeOH 20 mL was shaken under a Hatm. for 46 h at rt. The RM was then filtered through a Fluoropore Membrane Filter 0.2 m FG and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in DCM and evaporated to dryness to give the title compound as white crystals MS M H 129.0. H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 7.34 s br 1H 7.10 s br 1H 3.48 d 1H 3.0.2 2.97 m 1H 2.80 2.75 m 1H 2.35 2.28 m 1H 1.88 1.81 m 1H 1.39 1.32 m 1H 0.83 d 3H .

Trimethylaluminum in toluene 2 M 3.23 mL was added dropwise to a mixture of ammonium chloride 0.346 g 6.47 mmol in toluene 3.2 mL at 0 C. under an argon atm. with the formation of methane gas. The RM was then allowed to warm to rt and stirred at rt for a further 15 min. before 2S 3R 3 methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester prepared as described in 1997 38 1 85 88 1.6 g 6.47 mmol was slowly added. The RM was stirred at it for 56 h 1 M HCl was then added with cooling and the RM washed 3 with DCM. The aqueous phase was basified with NaCO extracted 3 with DCM and the combined organic layers dried over NaSO. Evaporation gave the title compound as a yellowish oil. MS M H 233.2. HPLC t3.17 min method D . H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 7.37 7.33 m 2H 7.30 t 2H 7.25 s br 1H 7.21 t 1H 7.12 s br 1H 3.55 q 1H 3.40 d 1H 2.71 t 1H 2.28 2.22 m 1H 2.21 2.16 m 1H 1.71 qt 1H 1.38 1.31 m 1H 1.21 d 3H 0.90 d 3H .

A solution of 2S 4S 4 dimethylamino pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid butyl ester Stage Q.1 326 mg and 7 M ammonia in MeOH 8 ml was stood for 18 h at it in a sealed vessel. Filtration evaporation and trituration with EtO MeOH gave the title compound as a beige solid.

Concentrated HCl 0.3 ml was added to a mixture of 2S 4S 4 dimethylamino pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester dihydrochloride 400 mg and 1 butanol 4 ml and heated for 18 h at 115 C. After cooling the RM was evaporated then partitioned between DCM and aqueous NaHCOsolution and the DCM layers dried and evaporated to give the title compound as a brown oil which was used without further purification.

A solution of 2S 4S 4 hydroxy pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester hydrochloride 1 g in a 7M solution of ammonia in MeOH 10 ml was stirred for 18 h then evaporated and triturated with EtO. The residue was dissolved in the minimum volume of hot MeOH and stood at 4 C. for 4 h. The title compound was isolated by filtration as a white solid.

A solution of 2S 4R 4 hydroxy pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid benzyl ester 1 g in 880 ammonia 5 ml was stirred for 18 h then evaporated and triturated with EtO to give the title compound as a white solid. H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 9.15 s br 1H 8.04 s 1H 7.63 s 1H 5.56 s 1H 4.40 s 1H 4.27 4.16 m 1H 3.27 d 1H 3.02 d 1H 2.33 2.19 m 1H 1.89 1.76 m 1H .

7 tert Butyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 ylamine Stage T.1 175 mg 0.659 mmol was dissolved in DCM 10 mL CDI 297 mg 1.648 mmol was then added and the RM was stirred at rt for 2 h. The title compound was isolated by filtration washed with DCM and dried under HV.

N 7 tert Butyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage T.2 225 mg 0.732 mmol was dissolved in EtOH 10 mL HCl 36 1.48 g 14.64 mmol was then added and the RM heated to reflux. After 18 hours at reflux the RM was cooled to rt and adjusted to pH 8 9 by the addition of 5 aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution extracted with EtOAc and washed two times with HO. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the title product t4.408 min Method F .

N 6 Bromo 7 oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage T.3 473 mg 1.635 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 10 mL 2 2 dimethylthio propionamide 230 mg 1.962 mmol and ammonium phosphomolybdate 307 mg 0.164 mmol were added and the RM was stirred at 25 C. for 20 h. The RM was then stood for 2 days before stirring at 50 C. for 24 h. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc HO. The organic layers were dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude material was chromatographed with 30 g of silica gel eluent DCM MeOH 99 1. Fractions containing the product were evaporated and lyophilized from dioxane to give 225 mg of the title compound as a white solid M H 308 M H 306 t5.525 min Method F .

N 7 Oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage T.4 2.286 g 10.87 mmol was dissolved in AcOH 60 ml then bromine 1.74 g 10.87 mmol dissolved in AcOH 10 mL were slowly added and the RM was heated to 75 C. for 20 h. The color changed from red to beige. The mixture was evaporated and the residue was dissolved in MeOH 10 mL and precipitated with HO. The mixture was filtered and dried on HV. The crude material was chromatographed with MPLC C18 HO 0.1 TFA CHCN 0.1 TFA gradient 0 50 . Fractions containing the product were neutralized with NaHCO extracted with EtOAc and lyophilized from dioxane to give of the title compound as a white solid M H 291 M H 289 t4.29 Method F . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 12.75 s 1H 4.95 t 1H 2.95 2.84 m 2H 2.62 2.52 m 1H 2.40 2.30 m 1H 2.20 s 3H .

To acetic anhydride 80 mL was added at rt 2 amino 5 6 dihydro 4H benzothiazol 7 one 10 g 59.4 mmol and the yellow suspension was heated to reflux. After 1.75 h stirring at this temperature the RM was allowed to cool with stirring and stirred overnight at rt. After further cooling with an ice NaCl bath the suspension was filtered. The solid was then refluxed twice with acetone 10 mL then 15 mL and filtered. The resulting solid was dried under vacuum at 40 C. overnight to afford the title compound as a beige solid HPLC t3.47 min Method A3 M H 211.1 H NMR in DMSO d6 600 MHz 12.55 s br 1H 2.84 t 2H 2.48 t 2H 2.17 s 3H 2.065 qt 2H .

7 2 Fluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 lamine Stage U.1 61.6 mg 0.217 mmol was dissolved in DCM 2 mL and CDI 297 mg 1.648 mmol added to give a clear colorless solution. The RM stood overnight at rt to give a white suspension. The mixture was cooled at 4 C. for 1 h and then filtered washed with DCM and dried under vacuum to give of the title compound as a white solid analysis of a sample in MeOH M H 342.0 showed methyl carbamate product in MS t2.14 min Method A3 .

3 Fluoro 2 2 dimethyl thiopropionamide Stage U.2 394 mg 2.331 mmol was dissolved in EtOH N 6 bromo 7 oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage T.3 473 mg 1.635 mmol and ammonium phosphomolybdate 80 mg 0.042 mmol were then added to give a yellow suspension. The RM was heated to reflux to give a dark blue green suspension. The reaction mixture was stirred at 65 C. 3 days. The RM was filtered and the filtrate evaporated. The residue was taken up in DMF and purified by prep HPLC method E . Fractions containing the product were combined and evaporated to give the title compound as a white solid M H 284.1 t1.30 min Method A3 .

The title compound was prepared by the procedure of Boys M. L. Downs V. L. 2006 36 295. Sodium hydrogen sulphide hydrate 3.89 g 69.4 mmol hygroscopic was added to a solution of 3 fluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionitrile Stage U.3 1.17 g 11.57 mmol and diethyl amine hydrochloride 7.61 g 69.4 mmol in 1 4 dioxane 7 mL and HO 7 mL at rt. The RM was heated to 55 C. and then stirred for 3 days at this temperature. The reaction mixture was diluted with water 50 ml and extracted 5 with EtOAc 50 mL . The organic layers were dried over NaSOand evaporated to give an orange oil. DCM 5 mL was then added to give a white suspension. The suspension was filtered and the filtrate was purified with flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with DCM. The product containing fractions were evaporated to give the title compound as a pale yellow oil M H 136.1 M H 134.1 t0.69 min Method A3 . F NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 218 ppm t 1F .

3 Fluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionamide Stage U.4 1.82 g 15.28 mmol and phosphorus pentoxide 2.168 g 15.28 mmol were combined to give a free flowing white powder which was heated with an oil bath to a bath temperature of 180 C. over 50 minutes under an argon atmosphere. A 300 mbar vacuum was then slowly applied distilling a mobile clear colourless oil which formed a low melting waxy solid on standing of the title compound. F NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 219.5 ppm t 1F .

3 Fluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionyl fluoride DE3326874 and DE3611195 2.5 g 20.47 mmol was added at 0 C. to a mixture of aqueous ammonia 10 mL and THF 20 mL . The RM was then allowed to warm to rt and stood overnight at rt. The volume was reduced by 50 under vacuum to give a thick white suspension. The suspension was extracted with DCM HO. The organic layers were dried over NaSOand evaporated to give the title compound as a white crystalline solid.

7 Cyclopropylmethyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 ylamine Stage V.1 72 mg 0.273 mmol was dissolved in 5 mL DCM CDI 73.9 mg 0.410 mmol was added and the RM stirred at rt for 20 h. Additional CDI 37 mg 0.205 mmol was added and the RM stirred at rt for a further 2 hours. The mixture was filtered washed with DCM and filtrate was evaporated to give the title compound M H 322.1 M H 320.2 MS ES in MeOH shows the methyl carbamate product .

N 7 Cyclopropylmethyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage V.2 180 mg 0.589 mmol was dissolved in EtOH 10 mL and 36 HCl 1.193 g 11.79 mmol added. The RM was heated to 90 C. for 16 h then cooled and extracted with EtOAc HO. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude material was chromatographed with MPLC C18 HO 0.1 TFA CHCN 0.1 TFA gradient 0 50 . Product containing fractions were neutralized with NaHCO extracted with EtOAc and lyophilized from dioxane to give the title compound M H 264.2 M H 262.1 t4.183 min Method F .

N 6 Bromo 7 oxo 4 5 6 7 tetrahydro benzothiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage T.3 347 mg 1.200 mmol was dissolved in MeOH 10 mL and 2 cyclopropyl thioacetamide 1995 Vol. 73 1468 1477 166 mg 1.440 mmol and ammonium phosphomolybdate 225 mg 0.120 mmol were added. The RM was stirred at rt for 20 h then heated at 50 C. for 3 h 60 C. for 2 h and then refluxed for 24 h. The RM was partitioned between EtOAc HO. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand evaporated. The raw material was chromatographied with MPLC C18 HO 0.1 TFA CHCN 0.1 TFA gradient 0 50 . Product containing fractions were neutralized with NaHCO extracted with EtOAc and lyophilized from dioxane to give the title compound as a white solid M H 306.2 M H 304.2 t5.12 min Method F .

To a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 45.1 mg 0.127 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added 2S 4R 4 dimethylamino pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate B 22 mg 0.140 mmol and triethylamine 0.053 ml 0.382 mmol . The RM was then stirred at rt for 17 h and purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were combined and eluted through a Bond Elut SCX 300 mg cartridge. The cartridge was then washed with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound. MS M H 444. HPLC t3.17 min method D .

A mixture of 2S 3S 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate D 6.24 mg 0.049 mmol imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 18 mg 0.049 mmol and triethylamine 0.020 mL 0.146 mmol in DMF 0.4 mL was stirred at rt for 6 h. The RM was then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were then filtered through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH and the eluent evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow solid. MS M H 430.1. HPLC t3.72 min method D . H NMR DMSO d 600 MHz 11.05 s 1H 8.04 s 1H 7.44 s br 1H 6.95 s br 1H 3.78 s br 1H 3.60 3.50 m 6H 2.82 s br 4H 2.18 s br 1H 2.03 s br 1H 1.55 s br 1H 1.10 t 6H 1.05 d 3H .

To a mixture of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 50 mg 0.135 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added R 2 benzyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate E 33.2 mg 0.162 mmol and triethylamine 0.057 mL 0.406 mmol . The RM was stirred for 21 h at 40 C. and then directly purified with preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH and evaporated give the title compound as a yellow solid. MS M H 506.1. HPLC t4.38 min method D .

To a mixture of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added S 2 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate F 39 mg 0.305 mmol and triethylamine 0.085 mL 0.609 mmol . The RM was stirred for at 40 C. 17 h and then directly purified with preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow solid MS M H 430.2. HPLC t3.80 min method D .

A mixture of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol R 2 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate G 35.3 mg 0.223 mmol and triethylamine 0.085 mL 0.609 mmol in DMF 2 mL was stirred for 6 h at 40 C. After cooling to rt the RM was dissolved in MeOH 1 mL and directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH and evaporated to give the title product as a yellow solid. MS M H 460.1. HPLC t3.94 min method D .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 132 mg 0.372 mmol was added to a mixture of R 2 dimethylaminomethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate H 70 mg 0.409 mmol and triethylamine 0.155 mL 1.115 mmol in DMF 1 mL at rt. After 18 hours MeOH 0.5 ml was added the RM filtered through a PTFE membrane filter and purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were combined and evaporated to remove CHCN and then basified by the addition of solid NaHCOto give a yellow white precipitate. After cooling to 4 C. the solid was recollected by filtration and then further purified by preparative HPLC method C . The product containing fractions were eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia in MeOH solution and evaporated to give the title product as a yellow amorphous glass. LCMS t0.98 min and M H 458.1 method A3 . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.28 s 1H 3.92 3.82 m 1H 3.67 3.44 m 2H 3.04 2.88 m 4H 2.85 2.71 m 1H 2.56 s br 6H 2.29 2.19 m 1H 2.08 1.87 m 3H 1.37 s 9H .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 91 mg 0.256 mmol and triethylamine 0.036 mL 0.256 mmol were added to d R 2 dimethylaminomethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate I 50 mg 0.282 mmol suspended in DMF 2 mL under an argon atm. The RM was then stirred for 2.75 h at 40 C. and then purified directly by preparative HPLC twice method B and then method C . Each time fractions containing the product were combined and eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia in MeOH solution and evaporated to give a yellow solid. The solid was suspended in DCM filtered and dried in vacuo to give the title compound as a yellow solid. LCMS t1.21 min and M H 464.0 method A1 .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 50 mg 0.135 mmol was added to a mixture of R 2 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate J 25.4 mg 0.176 mmol and triethylamine 0.047 mL 0.338 mmol in DMF 1 mL at rt. After 18 h at rt the RM was filtered through a PTFE membrane and purified by preparative HPLC method B . Product containing fractions the were combined and filtered through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia in MeOH solution and evaporated to give an orange glass which was recrystallized from MeOH water to afford the title compound as a yellow solid. LCMS t1.09 min and M H 446.0 method A3 .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 124 mg 0.350 mmol was added to a mixture of R 2 hydroxymethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate J 63 mg 0.350 mmol and triethylamine 0.049 mL 0.350 mmol in DMF 2 mL . The RM was stirred for 2 h at 40 C. then stood for 18 h at rt and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give a yellow solid. The isolated solid was then suspended in DCM filtered and dried to give title compound as a pale yellow white solid. LCMS t1.31 min and M H 430.9 method A1 .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 40.1 mg 0.113 mmol and triethylamine 0.047 mL 0.339 mmol were added to R 2 3 fluoro benzyl methyl amino methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate K 30 mg 0.113 mmol suspended in DMF 1 mL at rt under argon. The RM was stirred for 2.5 h at 40 C. and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method C . The product containing fractions were eluted through a Bond Elut SCX 300 mg cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give a yellow solid. The solid was triturated with DCM filtered and dried to give the title compound as a pale yellow solid. LCMS t0.81 min and M H 552.3 method A2 .

 S 2 Methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate F 22.14 mg 0.169 mmol and triethylamine 0.035 mL 0.254 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 30 mg 0.085 mmol in DMF 1 mL under argon at rt. After stirring 16 h at rt the RM was directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow crystalline solid. MS M H 415.1. HPLC t3.73 min method D .

 S Pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide 148 mg 1.299 mmol and triethylamine 0.272 mL 1.949 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 240 mg 0.65 mmol and DMF 1 mL under argon at rt. The RM was stirred for 15.5 h at rt and then purified with preparative HPLC method C . Product containing fractions were combined and filtered through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound as orange crystals. MS M H 416.1. HPLC t3.56 min method D .

A mixture of S azetidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate L 26.4 mg 0.264 mmol imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol and triethylamine 0.085 mL 0.609 mmol in DMF 2 mL was stirred at 40 C. for 2 h. The RM was then purified directly by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a 300 mg Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound as a white crystalline solid. MS M H 402.1. HPLC t3.56 min method D .

 S Pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide 16 mg 0.14 mmol was added to a mixture of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 45 mg 0.127 mmol and triethylamine 0.053 mL 0.381 mmol in DMF 1 mL at rt. The RM was stood overnight at rt then evaporated and the residue crystallized from MeOH and water. The title compound was collected by filtration. MS M H 401.1 MS ESI . H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 8.31 s 1H 4.46 d 1H 3.77 3.54 m 2H 3.08 2.90 m 4H 2.33 2.23 m 1H 2.13 2.00 m 3H 1.38 s 9H .

To a suspension of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol in DMF 2 mL was added 5 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide prepared as described in 1936 274 40 39 mg 0.305 mmol and triethylamine 0.085 mL 0.609 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 2.5 h. and then purified directly by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH evaporated and the residue triturated with DCM to give the title compound as a yellow solid. LCMS t0.77 min and M H 430.0 method A2 .

To imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol in DCM 2 mL was added 2S 4R 4 fluoro pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate M 40.2 mg 0.305 mmol and triethylamine 0.085 mL 0.609 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 17.5 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow solid. HPLC t3.66 min method D . MS M H 434.1.

To imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 17 mg 0.046 mmol in DMF 0.4 mL was added 2S 4S 4 fluoro pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate N 6.08 mg 0.046 mmol and triethylamine 0.019 mL 0.138 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 17 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow solid. HPLC t3.55 min method D . MS M H 434.1.

 1S 5R 2 Aza bicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 1 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate O 208 mg 1.65 mmol was added to a stirred mixture of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 532 mg 1.5 mmol and triethylamine 0.627 mL 4.50 mmol in DMF 4 mL at rt. After 56 and 80 hours additional portions of 1S 5R 2 aza bicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 1 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate O 104 mg 0.825 mmol were added and the RM stood 18 h at rt. The RM was then filtered through a PTFE membrane and purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH and evaporated. The residue was purified for a second time by preparative HPLC method B and isolated in the same manner. The crude product was then recrystallised from a 1 1 mixtre of water MeOH to give the title compound as a yellow crystalline solid. LCMS t1.22 min and M H 413.1 method A3 . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 11.22 s 1H 8.40 s 1H 7.33 s br 1H 7.05 s br 1H 3.97 3.84 m 1H 3.64 3.52 m 1H 3.01 2.83 m 4H 2.28 2.13 m 1H 1.95 1.74 m 3H 1.33 s 9H 1.04 0.97 m 1H .

To imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol in DCM 2 mL was added 1S 5R 2 aza bicyclo 3.1.0 hexane 1 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate O 38.4 mg 0.305 mmol and triethylamine 0.085 mL 0.609 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 17.5 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were eluted through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow solid. HPLC t3.73 min method D . MS M H 428.1.

To imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 60 mg 0.169 mmol in DMF 1 mL was added 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate P 32.5 mg 0.254 mmol and triethylamine 0.071 mL 0.508 mmol . The RM was stirred under argon for 2 h at rt and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The CHCN was evaporated from the product containing fractions and the remaining liquid then eluted through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M solution of ammonia in MeOH and evaporated. The residue was triturated in methanol and the title compound collected as white crystals following filtration and drying. HPLC t3.66 method D . MS M H 415.1. H NMR CDOD 600 MHz 7.96 s 1H 4.04 d 1H 3.47 t 1H 3.18 q 1H 2.71 2.67 m 2H 2.64 2.58 m 2H 2.24 2.15 m 1H 1.76 s br 1H 1.53 s br 1H 1.03 s 9H 0.78 d 3H .

To imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 82 mg 0.222 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added under argon 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate P 42.7 mg 0.333 mmol and triethylamine 0.093 mL 0.666 mmol . The RM was stirred at rt for 2 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The CHCN was removed under vacuum from the product containing fractions and the remaining solution then eluted through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH evaporated and the residue triturated with methanol to give the title compound as a white crystalaline solid. HPLC t3.74 method D . MS M H 430.1. H NMR CDOD 600 MHz 7.62 s 1H 4.03 d 1H 3.46 t 1H 3.26 q 4H 3.17 q 1H 2.54 s 4H 2.24 2.15 m 1H 1.80 1.72 m 1H 1.58 1.47 m 1H 0.83 t 6H 0.77 d 3H .

To imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 60 mg 0.162 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL was added 2S 4S 4 dimethylamino pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate Q 28.1 mg 0.179 mmol and triethylamine 0.068 mL 0.487 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 17 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were passed through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH. The solution was evaporated to give the title compound. HPLC t3.23 min method D . MS M H 459.1.

To a suspension of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 65 mg 0.176 mmol in DMF 2 mL were added 5 phenyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide prepared as described in patent U.S. Pat. No. 3 164 597 Example 42 50.2 mg 0.264 mmol and triethylamine 0.074 mL 0.528 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 2 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were passed through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH. The solution was evaporated and the residue was triturated in DCM to give the title compound as a yellow solid. LCMS t0.99 min and M H 492.0 method A2 .

To a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 100 mg 0.282 mmol in DMF 2 mL were added azetidine 2 carboxylic acid amide 56.5 mg 0.564 mmol and triethylamine 0.118 mL 0.846 mmol . The RM was stirred under argon atm. at rt for 16 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were passed through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH. The solution was evaporated and the residue purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with DCM MeOH 95 5 containing 0.5 880 HNto give the title compound as a yellow solid. HPLC t3.55 min method D . MS M H 387.1.

 S Azetidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate L 68.1 mg 0.680 mmol was added to a stirred mixture of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 241 mg 0.680 mmol and triethylamine 0.284 mL 2.040 mmol in DMF 3 mL at rt. The RM was allowed to stand 66 h at rt and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were evaporated to remove the CHCN and then basified with NaHCO. The aqueous phase was then extracted 4 with 10 MeOH in DCM the combined organic layers dried over NaSOand evaporated to give a solid which was triturated with MeOH water to give the title compound as an off white crystaline solid. LCMS t1.08 min and M H 386.9 method A3 .

To a suspension of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol in DMF 2 mL were added 2S 4S 4 hydroxy pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate R 39.6 mg 0.305 mmol and triethylamine 0.113 mL 0.812 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 2.5 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were passed through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH. The solution was evaporated to give the title compound as a yellow solid. HPLC t3.44 min method D . MS M H 432.1.

To a suspension of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 diethylamino 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate C 75 mg 0.203 mmol in DMF 2 mL were added 2S 4R 4 hydroxy pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate S 39.6 mg 0.305 mmol and triethylamine 0.113 mL 0.812 mmol . The RM was stirred at 40 C. for 4.5 h and then directly purified by preparative HPLC method B . The product containing fractions were passed through a Bond Elut SCX cartridge. The cartridge was then eluted with a 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH. The solution was evaporated and the residue was recrystallised from DCM to give the title compound as a yellow solid. HPLC t3.31 min method D . MS M H 432.1.

L Prolinamide 59.4 mg 0.521 mmol and TEA 0.121 mL 0.868 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 7 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl amide Intermediate T 156 mg 0.434 mmol in DMF 1 mL . The RM was stirred at rt for 10 min. The mixture was extracted with EtOAc HO. The organic layer was dried over Na2SO4 and evaporated. The crude material was chromatographied with MPLC C18 HO 0.1 TFA CHCN 0.1 TFA gradient 0 50 . Product containing fractions were neutralized with NaHCO extracted with EtOAc and lyophilized from dioxane to give the title compound as a white solid M H 406 M H 404 t4.75 min Method F . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.80 s 1H 7.40 s 1H 6.98 s 1H 4.30 s 1H 3.65 3.55 m 1H 3.48 3.38 m 1H 3.10 t 2H 2.94 t 2H 2.14 2.05 m 1H 1.95 1.78 m 3H 1.40 s 9H .

 S 2 Methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate F 7.7 mg 0.060 mmol and TEA 0.014 mL 0.100 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 7 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl amide Intermediate T 18 mg 0.050 mmol in DMF 3 mL . The RM was stirred at rt for 10 min. then extracted with EtOAc HO. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude material was chromatographied with MPLC C18 HO 0.1 TFA CHCN 0.1 TFA gradient 0 50 . Product containing fractions were neutralized with NaHCO extracted with EtOAc and lyophilized from dioxane to give the title compound as a white solid M H 420 M H 418 t4.875 min Method F . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.60 s br 1H 7.68 s 1H 6.86 s 1H 3.68 3.60 m 1H 3.60 3.50 m 1H 3.08 t 2H 2.90 t 2H 2.10 1.98 m 1H 1.90 1.68 m 3H 1.48 s 3H 1.37 s 9H .

 S Azetidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate L 37.1 mg 0.370 mmol and TEA 0.14 mL 1.010 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 7 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl amide Intermediate T 121 mg 0.337 mmol in DMF 2 mL . The RM was stirred for 5 min and then stood for 2 days at rt. The RM was filtered and directly purified by Prep.HPLC method E . Product containing fractions were combined and filtered through a Bond Elute SCX 300 mg cartridge. The cartridge was then washed with 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH 2 ml . The filtrate was evaporated to give the title compound as a white solid M H 391.8 M H 389.8 t1.84 min Method A3 . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 11.12 s 1H 7.52 s 1H 7.30 s 1H 4.74 4.62 m 1H 3.92 t 2H 3.08 t 2H 2.90 t 2H 2.46 2.36 m 1H 2.18 2.02 m 1H 1.39 s 9H .

 2S 4R 4 Dimethylamino pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate B 9.33 mg 0.059 mmol and TEA 0.019 ml 0.135 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 7 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl amide Intermediate T 19.4 mg 0.054 mmol in DMF 1 ml . The RM was stirred for 5 min and then stood overnight at rt. The RM was filtered and directly purified by Prep.HPLC method E . Fractions containing the product were combined and filtered through a Bond Elute SCX 300 mg cartridge. The cartridge was then washed with 7 M ammonia solution in MeOH. The filtrate was evaporated to give the title compound as a white solid M H 449.1 M H 447.3 t1.47 min Method A3 . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 7.40 s 1H 7.00 s 1H 4.44 4.25 m 1H 3.86 3.76 m 1H 3.35 3.25 m 1H 3.08 t 2H 2.92 t 2H 2.96 2.78 m 1H 1.18 s br 6H 2.08 1.85 m 2H 1.38 s 9H .

L Prolinamide 23.98 mg 0.210 mmol and TEA 0.080 mL 0.573 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 7 2 fluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl amide Intermediate U 72.1 mg 0.191 mmol in DMF 1 mL . The RM was stirred for 5 min and then stood overnight at rt. The RM was evaporated and then triturated with MeOH 2 mL and HO 1 mL . The mixture was cooled to 4 C. The suspension was filtered and washed with cold MeOH HO 2 1 and the solid dried under HV at 40 C. to give the title compound as a white solid M H 424.0 M H 422.1 t1.7 min Method A3 . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 7.19 s 1H 6.96 s 1H 4.58 s 1H 4.44 s 1H 4.28 s br 1H 3.64 3.50 m 1H 3.48 3.38 m 1H 3.10 t 2H 2.92 t 2H 2.18 1.98 m 1H 1.94 1.78 m 3H 1.38 s 6H F NMR d6 DMSO 600.13 MHz 219 ppm t 1F .

L Prolinamide 16.7 mg 0.147 mmol and TEA 0.027 mL 0.196 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 7 cyclopropylmethyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl amide Intermediate V 35 mg 0.098 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL . The RM was stirred at rt for 15 min and then extracted with EtOAc HO. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude material was chromatographied with MPLC C18 HO 0.1 TFA CHCN 0.1 TFA gradient 0 50 . Product containing fractions were neutralized with NaHCO extracted with EtOAc and lyophilized from dioxane to give the title compound as a white solid M H 404 M H 402 t4.49 min Method F . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.78 s 1H 7.40 s 1H 6.98 s 1H 4.28 s br 1H 3.65 3.55 m 1H 3.48 3.38 m 1H 3.08 t 2H 2.97 t 2H 2.84 d 2H 2.14 2.04 m 1H 1.93 1.72 m 3H 1.10 q 1H 0.60 0.50 m 2H 0.40 0.38 m 2H .

 2S 3S 3 Methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Intermediate D 13.37 mg 0.104 mmol and TEA 0.039 mL 0.278 mmol were added to imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 7 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro benzo 1 2 d 3 4 d bisthiazol 2 yl amide Intermediate T 25 mg 0.070 mmol in DMF 2 mL . The RM was stirred at rt for 10 min and then extracted with EtOAc HO. The organic layer was dried over NaSOand evaporated. The crude material was lyophilized from dioxane without further purification to give the title compound as a white solid M H 420.1 M H 418.1 t4.85 min Method F . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.78 s br 1H 7.44 s br 1H 6.97 s br 1H 3.90 3.70 m 1H 3.62 3.42 m 2H 3.08 t 2H 2.94 t 2H 2.22 2.12 m 1H 2.06 1.94 m 1H 1.58 1.48 m 1H 1.39 s 9H 1.04 d 3H .

The title compound was synthesized in a similar manner as described for Example 34 using intermediate O instead of intermediate D.

 M H 418.0 M H 416.1 t4.90 min Method F . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.78 s br 1H 7.40 s br 1H 7.06 s br 1H 3.92 3.82 m 1H 3.62 3.52 m 1H 3.08 t 2H 2.94 t 2H 2.26 2.14 m 1H 1.92 1.72 m 3H 1.39 s 9H 1.05 0.95 m 1H .

Triethylamine 0.339 mmol was added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 0.113 mmol and 2S 3S 3 acetylamino methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 36.1 0.135 mmol at rt. After stirring for 85 min the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography followed by trituration with EtO to afford the title compound as a yellow solid. HPLC t 4.20 min method H LCMS t 1.48 min M H 472 method I TLC R 0.14 9 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 11.15 br s 1H 8.41 s 1H 7.81 br s 1H 7.53 br s 1H 7.13 br s 1H 4.28 m 1H 3.74 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 3.25 m 1H 2.98 m 2H 2.93 m 3H 2.42 m 1H 2.02 m 1H 1.82 s 3H 1.74 m 1H 1.33 s 9H .

A mixture of 2S 3S 3 acetylamino methyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 36.2 0.48 mmol and 10 Pd on charcoal wet with 50 HO Aldrich 330108 0.096 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was hydrogenated for 6.5 h at rt. The reaction mixture was then filtered through a Fluoropore Membrane Filter 0.2 m FG and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in CHCland evaporated to dryness to afford the title compound as an off white solid. ESI MS M H 186 TLC R 0.08 200 20 1 CHCl MeOH conc. NHOH .

Thioacetic acid 2.312 mmol was added to 2S 3S 3 azidomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 36.3 0.578 mmol at rt with the formation of nitrogen gas. After stirring for 16 h the reaction mixture was diluted with EtO the solids were removed by filtration and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a light yellow oil thiol odor . HPLC t 3.71 min method H LC MS t 0.64 min M H 290 method I TLC R 0.38 200 20 1 CHCl MeOH conc. NHOH .

Trimethylaluminum in toluene 2 M 15.95 mmol was added dropwise to a mixture of NHCl 15.95 mmol in toluene 2 mL at 0 C. with the formation of methane gas. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to rt stirred for a further 15 min and then slowly treated with a solution of 2S 3S 3 azidomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Stage 36.4 7.98 mmol in toluene 8 mL . Additional reagent prepared from NHCl 15.95 mmol in toluene 2 mL and trimethylaluminum in toluene 2 M 15.95 mmol at 0 C. was added after 18 h. After stirring for 44 h the mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with 1M HCl and then washed with CHCl 3 . The aqueous phase was basified with a 1 1 saturated solution of NaHCO saturated solution of Rochelle s salt and extracted with THF 10 . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.50 min method G ESI MS M H 274 TLC R 0.26 3 1 Hex EtOAc .

Sodium azide 5.34 mmol was added to a solution of 2S 3R 3 iodomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Stage 36.5 3.56 mmol in DMF 30 mL at rt. After 18 h the reaction mixture was poured onto water and extracted with MTBE 2 . The combined organic phases were washed with brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to to afford the title compound as a brown oil. HPLC t 3.26 min method G ESI MS M H 289.

A solution of but 3 enyl S 1 phenyl ethyl amino acetic acid methyl ester 432555 77 6 20.22 mmol in THF 10 mL was slowly added to a solution of lithium diisopropylamide 24.26 mmol in 1 2 hexanes THF 30 mL at 78 C. The reaction mixture was warmed to 0 C. stirred for 1 h and then re cooled to 78 C. A solution of zinc bromide 50.5 mmol in EtO 40 mL was added and the reaction mixture was then warmed to rt. After stirring for 1 h the mixture was cooled to 0 C. and iodine 22.24 mmol was added in portions. The reaction mixture was stirred at 0 C. for 2 h and at rt for another 2 h diluted with EtO and then successively washed with a saturated solution of NaSOand a saturated solution of NHCl. The aqueous layers were each back extracted with EtO. The combined organic phases were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a red oil. HPLC t 3.46 min method G ESI MS M H 374.

Triethylamine 0.423 mmol was added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 0.141 mmol and 2S 3S 3 acetylamino methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 37.1 0.155 mmol in DMF 0.5 mL at rt. After stirring for 3 h the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a white solid. HPLC t 4.04 min method H LCMS t 1.36 min M H 500 method I TLC R 0.09 19 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 11.15 br s 1H 8.39 m 1H 7.37 br s 1H 7.05 s 1H 4.27 m 1H 3.70 m 1H 3.59 m 4H 3.42 m 1H 2.97 m 2H 2.90 m 2H 2.58 m 1H 2.38 m 4H 2.35 m 1H 2.17 m 1H 2.02 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 1.32 s 9H .

A mixture of 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 37.2 1.046 mmol and 10 Pd on charcoal wet with 50 HO Aldrich 330108 0.105 mmol in MeOH 5 mL was hydrogenated for 6.5 h at rt. The reaction mixture was then filtered through a Fluoropore Membrane Filter 0.2 m FG and evaporated. The residue was dissolved in CHCland evaporated to dryness to afford the title compound as colorless oil. ESI MS M H 214 TLC R 0.14 200 20 1 CHCl MeOH conc. NHOH .

Trimethylaluminum in toluene 2 M 2.89 mmol was added dropwise to a mixture of NHCl 2.89 mmol in toluene 3 mL at 0 C. with the formation of methane gas. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to rt stirred for a further 15 min and then slowly treated with a solution of 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Stage 37.3 1.444 mmol in toluene 9 mL . Additional reagent prepared from NHCl 2.89 mmol in toluene 2 mL and trimethylaluminum in toluene 2 M 2.89 mmol at 0 C. was added after 18 h. After stirring for 60 h the mixture was cooled to 0 C. quenched with 1M HCl and then washed with CHCl 3 . The aqueous phase was basified with a 1 1 saturated solution of NaHCO saturated solution of Rochelle s salt and extracted with THF 10 . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.18 min method G ESI MS M H 318.

A mixture of 2S 3R 3 iodomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Stage 36.5 7.07 mmol KCO 21.22 mmol and morpholine 10.61 mmol in CHCN 24 mL was stirred at 50 C. for 62 h. The reaction mixture was poured onto ice water and extracted with EtOAc 3 . The combined organic layers were successively washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.56 min method G ESI MS M H 333.

The title compound was synthesized using methodology as described for Example 20 using 2S 3R 3 hydroxy pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide H. Fukushima et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. 2004 12 6053 H. Ji et al. J. Med. Chem. 2006 49 21 6254 instead of intermediate P.

LCMS t 1.45 min M H 417.0 M H 415 method J . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 12 11 s br 1H 8.4 s 1H 7.2 6.9 m 2H 5.2 s 1H 4.4 s 1H 4.25 s br 1H 3.6 m 1H 3.45 m 1H 2.95 m 2H 2.9 m 2H 2.0 m 1H 1.9 m 1H 1.3 s 9H .

The title compound was synthesized using methodology as described for Example 34 using 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide intermediate P instead of intermediate D.

LCMS t 1.32 min M H 420.0 M H 418.1 method J . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 10.65 s br 1H 7.39 s br 1H 6.99 s br 1H 4.2 m 1H 3.67 t 1H 3.3 m 1H 3.08 t 2H 2.93 t 2H 2.38 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.7 m 1H 1.39 s 9H 0.97 d 3H .

The title compound was prepared starting from imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 methyl 4H 5 oxa 1 thia 3 7 diaza cyclopenta a naphthalen 2 yl amide Stage 40.1 using synthetic methodology described in the preparation of Example 20.

LCMS t 0.29 min M H 374.0 M H 372 method J . H NMR 1H NMR CDOD 400 MHz 7.9 s 1H 7.0 s 1H 5.27 s 2H 4.38 d 1H 3.8 dd 1H 3.5 m 1H 2.5 m 1H 2.4 s 1H 2.08 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.12 d 3H .

Imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 methyl 4H 5 oxa 1 thia 3 7 diaza cyclopenta a naphthalen 2 yl amide was prepared from N 8 methyl 4H 5 oxa 1 thia 3 7 diaza cyclopenta a naphthalen 2 yl acetamide Stage 40.2 using synthetic methodology as described for the preparation of intermediate A.

A mixture of 463 mg 1.53 mmol N 4 4 bromo 6 methyl pyridin 3 yloxymethyl thiazol 2 yl acetamide Stage 40.3 900 mg 2.71 mmol cesium carbonate 30.4 mg 0.135 mmol palladium acetate and 81 mg 0.271 mmol tributylphosphine tetrafluoroborate in 3 mL DMF was stirred at 115 C. for 7 h under argon. Then the reaction mixture was poured onto water EtOAc was added and after filtration over a layer of Hyflo Super Gel medium Fluka 56678 the filtrate was extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine dried MgSO and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to leave a residue that was purified on silica gel 100 EtOAc in heptane to afford 93 mg of the title compound as a solid. LCMS t 0.27 min M H 262 M H 260 method J .

To a solution of 270 mg 1.44 mmol 4 bromo 6 methyl pyridin 3 ol Stage 40.4 in DMF 5 mL 44.8 mg NaH 1.87 mmol was added and this mixture was stirred for 1 h at rt. 301 mg 1.58 mmol 2 acetamido 4 chloromethyl 1 3 thiazole Apollo OR15549 was added and stirring was continued at rt for another 17 h. The reaction mixture was poured on water and extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine dried MgSO and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to leave 350 mg of the title compound white solid considered sufficiently pure without further purification. LCMS t 1.36 min M H 342 Br 344 Br method J .

920 mg 3.05 mmol 4 bromo 5 methoxymethoxy 2 methyl pyridine Stage 40.5 were dissolved in 5 mL MeOH HCl conc. 1 mL 12 mmol was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 h at rt. While concentrating the mixture in vacuo the title compound as hydrochloride crystallized. Filtration afforded 570 mg white crystals. H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 8.19 s 1H 8.04 s 1H 2.53 s 3H .

A solution of 1000 mg 6.53 mmol 5 methoxymethoxy 2 methyl pyridine J. P. Behr et al. Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 2003 13 10 1713 in 10 mL THF was cooled to 78 C. where 4.03 mL 6.85 mmol t BuLi 1.7M solution in pentane was added. The resulting mixture was stirred under argon for 1 h then 2.126 g 6.53 mmol 1 2 dibromotetrachloroethane in 5 mL THF was added. Stirring was continued for 1 h at 78 C. and the reaction mixture was warmed to rt. Saturated NHCl solution was added and the aqueous mixture was extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic layers were washed with HO and brine dried MgSO and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to leave a residue that was purified on silica gel EtOAc hexane 1 1 to afford 920 mg of the title compound as an oil. LCMS t 0.29 min M H 232 Br 234 Br method J .

The title compound was synthesized using methodology as described for Example 34 using 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 37.1 instead of intermediate D.

LCMS t 0.68 min M H 505.3.0 M H 503.2 method J . H NMR d DMSO 600.13 MHz 10.65 s b 1H 7.4 s b 1H 7.05 s b 1H 4.3 s b 1H 3.7 m 1H 3.6 m 4H 3.3 m 1H 3.1 t 2H 2.9 t 2H 2.6 m 1H 2.4 m 1H 2.35 m 4H 2.15 m 1H 2.0 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 1.35 s 9H .

Triethylamine 0.525 mmol was added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 0.175 mmol and 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 42.1 0.192 mmol in DMF 0.7 mL at rt. After stirring for 3 h the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a white solid. HPLC t 2.84 min method G LCMS t 1.71 min M H 445 method I TLC R 0.41 19 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 11.15 br s 1H 8.40 s 1H 7.42 br s 1H 7.05 br s 1H 4.27 m 1H 3.74 m 1H 3.46 m 1H 3.42 m 1H 3.24 s 3H 3.16 m 1H 2.98 m 2H 2.91 m 2H 2.54 m 1H 2.03 m 1H 1.77 m 1H 1.32 s 9H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Stage 37.1 but 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 42.2 was used instead of 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide.

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Stage 37.2 but 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester Stage 42.3 was used instead of 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid methyl ester.

The title compound was obtained as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.35 min method G LC MS t 0.47 min M H 263 method K TLC R 0.05 1 1 Heptanes EtOAc .

A mixture of 3aR 6aS 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl hexahydro furo 3 4 b pyrrol 6 one 805246 48 4 17.05 mmol KOH 71.60 mmol and iodomethane 68.20 mmol in toluene 79 mL was stirred at 80 C. for 1.5 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and partitioned between water and MTBE. The aqueous layer was extracted with MTBE 3 . The combined organic layers were dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified by silica gel column chromatography to afford the title compound as a yellow oil. HPLC t 2.98 min method G LC MS t 0.69 min M H 278 method K TLC R 0.25 1 3 Heptanes EtOAc .

Triethylamine 0.305 mmol was added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 tert butyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Intermediate A 0.102 mmol and 2S 3S 3 dimethylaminomethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 43.1 0.102 mmol in DMF 0.3 mL at rt. After stirring for 0.5 h the reaction mixture was concentrated and dried overnight under vacuum at 50 C. The residue was suspended in EtOAc 1 mL filtered and dried under vacuum to afford the title compound as a white solid. HPLC t 4.01 min method H LCMS t 1.33 min M H 458 method I TLC R 0.08 4 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 11.14 br s 1H 8.40 s 1H 7.42 br s 1H 7.06 br s 1H 4.27 m 1H 3.71 m 1H 3.42 m 1H 2.98 m 2H 2.90 m 2H 2.52 m 1H 2.33 m 1H 2.18 m 1H 2.18 s 6H 2.01 m 1H 1.72 m 1H 1.32 s 9H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described in Stage 37.1 but 2S 3S 3 dimethylaminomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 43.2 was used instead of 2S 3S 3 morpholin 4 ylmethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide. Also the hydrogenation was performed under 4 bar pressure.

A mixture of 2S 3S 3 aminomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 43.3 0.418 mmol sodium cyanoborohydride 2.86 mmol and 37 aqueous formaldehyde 2.14 mmol in MeOH 3.3 mL was stirred at 55 C. for 16 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to rt and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to afford the title compound as a white foam. HPLC t3.59 min method H LC MS t 0.86 min M H 276 method I TLC R 0.13 9 1 CHCl MeOH .

A mixture of 2S 3S 3 azidomethyl 1 S 1 phenyl ethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 36.3 0.723 mmol and triphenylphosphine 0.867 mmol in THF 3 mL was stirred at rt for 25 h. The reaction mixture was concentrated to afford the crude title compound as a light brown solid. HPLC t3.53 min method H ESI MS M H 248.

Triethylamine 1.714 mmol was added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Stage 44.1 0.490 mmol and 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide intermediate P 0.979 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL at rt. After stirring for 1.5 h the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was diluted with a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic layers were successively washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to to afford the title compound as a beige solid. HPLC t 5.77 min method H LCMS t 2.18 min M H 469 method I TLC R 0.16 19 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 11.19 br s 1H 8.50 s 1H 7.43 br s 1H 7.01 br s 1H 4.18 m 1H 3.72 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 3.03 m 2H 2.94 m 2H 2.38 m 1H 1.97 m 1H 1.70 m 1H 1.58 s 6H 0.99 d 3H .

The title compound was prepared in analogy to the procedure described for Intermediate A but in Stage A.3 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionamidine hydrochloride Stage 44.2 was used instead of tert butylamidine hydrochloride.

The title compound was obtained as a beige solid. HPLC t 6.73 min method H LCMS t 1.11 min M H 373 method J . Note for characterization purposes the title compound was dissolved in MeOH methyl carbamate derivative.

3 3 3 Trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionitrile Stage 44.3 12.40 mmol was added to a solution of sodium methoxide freshly prepared from 48.40 mmol sodium metal and 102 mL MeOH at rt. After 4 h acetic acid 48.40 mmol and then NHCl 14.88 mmol were slowly added and the reaction mixture was then heated to 70 C. for 40 h. After concentrating 40 C. 100 mbar the reaction mixture the residue was suspended in acetone filtered and dried under vacuum to afford the title compound as a white solid. ESI MS M H 155.

A mixture of 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionamide Stage 44.4 121.2 mmol and phosphorus pentoxide 121.2 mmol was slowly heated to 200 C. and the resulting distillate collected. The title compound was obtained as a colorless liquid.

Oxalyl chloride 140.8 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionic acid 889940 13 0 128 mmol in CHCl 128 mL at 0 C. Added a few dr DMF until gas evolution was observed and then continued stirring for 30 min. After warming to rt and stirring overnight the reaction mixture was concentrated 40 C. 00 mbar . The residue was dissolved in THF 128 mL cooled to 0 C. and then slowly treated with a solution of concentrated aqueous ammonia 64 mL . After stirring at 0 C. for 30 min and then at rt for 4 h the reaction mixture was concentrated to half its volume to give a thick white suspension. After filtering and drying the title compound was obtained as a white solid. ESI MS M H 156.

Triethylamine 1.714 mmol was added to a solution of imidazole 1 carboxylic acid 8 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl 4 5 dihydro thiazolo 4 5 h quinazolin 2 yl amide Stage 44.1 0.490 mmol and 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 42.1 0.0.979 mmol in DMF 1.5 mL at rt. After stirring for 2 h the reaction mixture was concentrated. The residue was diluted with a saturated solution of NaHCOand extracted with EtOAc 2 . The combined organic layers were successively washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated. The residue was purified using a RediSep silica gel column to to afford the title compound as a beige solid. HPLC t 5.71 min method H LCMS t 2.15 min M H 499 method I TLC R 0.40 19 1 CHCl MeOH H NMR d DMSO 600 MHz 11.23 br s 1H 8.50 s 1H 7.42 br s 1H 7.06 br s 1H 4.27 m 1H 3.74 m 1H 3.46 m 1H 3.42 m 1H 3.24 s 3H 3.16 m 1H 3.03 m 2H 2.94 m 2H 2.55 m 1H 2.03 m 1H 1.77 m 1H 1.58 s 6H .

LCMS t 0.50 min M H 416 M H 414 method L . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 8.05 s 1H 7.37 bs 1H 7.09 s 1H 6.97 bs 1H 5.31 s 2H 4.18 m 1H 3.69 dd 1H 3.39 m 1H 2.35 m 1H 1.95 m 1H 1.71 m 1H 1.27 s 9H 0.975 d 3H .

The title compound was prepared from 2 tert butyl 5 methoxymethoxy pyridine using synthetic methodology as described for the preparation of Example 40. The starting material 2 tert butyl 5 methoxymethoxy pyridine was prepared from 2 bromo 5 methoxymethoxy pyridine as described below 

6.69 g 74.7 mmol copper I cyanide in 15 ml dry THF was cooled to 75 C. where 149 ml 149 mmol of a 1M tert butylmagnesium chloride solution was added drop wise. Stirring was continued for 40 min. After that 4.07 g 18.67 mmol 2 bromo 5 methoxymethoxy pyridine Zhong W. et al. WO2008147547 dissolved in 30 ml dry THF were added drop wise. The reaction mixture was stirred at 75 C. for 1 h and then allowed to reach room temperature where stirring was continued for another 6 h. Then 30 ml of 25 aqueous ammonia was added to the reaction mixture. The mixture was filtered and extracted twice with CHCl. The combined organic layers were washed with water dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by chromatography on silicagel EtOAc heptane to yield 2.64 g of the pure title compound as an oil. LCMS t 0.55 min M H 196 method K .

The title compound was prepared using synthetic methodology described for the preparation of Example 46 and using 2S 3S 3 dimethylaminomethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 43.1 instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide in the last step of the synthesis.

LC MS t 0.24 min M H 457 method L . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 11.15 bs 1H 8.03 s 1H 7.35 s 1H 7.07 s 1H 7.0 s 1H 5.28 s 2H 4.23 m 1H 3.65 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 2.6 2.45 m 2H 2.30 m 1H 2.17 s 6H 2.15 m 1H 1.70 m 1H 1.27 s 9H .

LC MS t 1.59 min M H 470 method F . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 11.25 bs 1H 8.15 s 1H 7.42 s 1H 7.34 s 1H 7.00 s 1H 5.40 s 2H 4.19 s 1H 3.71 m 1H ca. 3.4 m 1H 2.5 2.35 m 1H 1.99 m 1H 1.68 m 1H 1.56 s 6H 0.99 d 3H .

The title compound was prepared starting from 4 bromo 5 methoxymethoxy 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 1 dimethyl ethyl pyridine using synthetic methodology as described for the preparation of Examples 40 and 42.

The title compound was prepared using synthetic methodology as described for the preparation of Example 40 stage 40.5. as an oil. LCMS method L t 1.26 min M H 328 Br 330 Br .

1.7 g 4.13 mmol methanesulfonic acid 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 5 methoxymethoxy pyridin 2 yl 1 methyl ethyl ester was dissolved in 20 ml dichloromethane. The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 C. where 2.065 ml 4.13 mmol trimethylaluminum was added slowly. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 h. After that water was added slowly and the mixture was extracted 2 times with EtOAc. The combined organic layers were washed with water and brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by chromatography on silicagel EtOAc heptane to yield to afford 0.55 g of the pure title compound. LCMS method L t 1.09 min M H 250.

To a stirred mixture of 0.213 g 8.44 mmol sodium hydride in 6 ml dry THF 1.06 g 4.22 mmol 1 1 1 trifluoro 2 5 methoxymethoxy pyridin 2 yl propan 2 ol dissolved in 4.9 ml dry THF was added dropwise at 0 C. After completion of the addition stirring was continued for 3 h at room temperature. Then methanesulfonyl chloride dissolved in 7.3 ml dry THF was added at room temperature and stirring was continued for another 2 h. Then water and sat. NaHCOsoln. were added. This mixture was extracted 2 times with EtOAc. The combinded organic layers were washed with water and brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 1.7 g of the title compound which was used directly in the next step. LCMS method L t 0.96 min M H 330.

A mixture of 1.48 g 4.58 mmol 5 methoxymethoxy 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methyl 1 trimethylsilanyloxy ethyl pyridine and 5 ml 10 mmol 2N HCl in 15 ml THF was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. After that the reaction mixture was poured on water and a pH of 1 2 was adjusted by the addition of 2N HCl. The reaction mixture was extracted 2 times with EtOAc. The combinded organic layers were washed with water and brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 1.06 g of the title compound as an oil 88 pure which was used in the next step without purification. LCMS method L t 0.88 min M H 252.

A mixture of 1.12 g 6.18 mmol 1 5 methoxymethoxy pyridin 2 yl ethanone 1.055 g 7.42 mmol trimethyl trifluormethyl silane and 0.025 g 0.309 mmol sodium acetate in 9 ml DMF was stirred for 1 h at 0 C. and 1 h at room temperature. After that the reaction mixture was poured on water and a pH of 1 2 was adjusted by the addition of 2N HCl. The reaction mixture was extracted 2 times with EtOAc. The combinded organic layers were washed with water and brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by chromatography on silicagel EtOAc heptane to yield 1.87 g of the pure title compound as an oil. LCMS method L t 1.38 min M H 324.

NaH was added to a solution of 1 g 7.29 mmol 1 5 hydroxy pyridin 2 yl ethanone Anichem in 15 ml DMF at 0 C. After stirring this mixture for 1 h 0.78 ml 8.75 mmol MOMCl was added at 0 C. Then the reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. The reaction mixture was poured on water and extracted 2 times with EtOAc. The combinded organic layers were washed with water and brine dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by chromatography on silicagel EtOAc heptane to yield 1.12 g of the pure title compound as an oil. LCMS method L t 0.66 min M H 182.

LCMS t 0.97 min M H 474 M H 414 method L . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 10.7 bs 1H 7.37 s 1H 6.97 s 1H 4.18 m 1H 3.69 dd 1H 3.39 m 1H 3.14 t 2H 2.95 t 2H 2.34 m 1H 1.94 m 1H 1.68 m 1H 1.62 s 6H 0.965 s 3H . The title compound was prepared from 2 2 dimethyl thiopropionamide using synthetic methodology as described for the preparation of Example 39. The starting material 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl thiopropionamide was prepared as described below 

A mixture of 2 g 12.81 mmol 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethylpropionic acid Aldrich 2.077 g 12.81 mmol carbonyl diimidazole and 5.55 ml 64.1 mmol aqueous ammonia in 50 ml CHClwas stirred at room temperature for 20 h. After that diethyl ether was added and the resulting mixture was washed with 0.1 N HCL 0.1 N NaOH water and brine. The organic layer was dried MgSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo to afford 1.15 g of the title compound as white crystals that were used in the next step without further purification. MS M H 156.

A mixture of 1.05 g 6.77 mmol 3 3 3 trifluoro 2 2 dimethyl propionamide and 1.48 g 3.66 mmol Lawesson s reagent in 32 ml dry THF was stirred at reflux temperature for 20 h. After that the reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature and concentrated in vacuo. The residue was purified by chromatography on silicagel heptane EtOAc to afford 0.81 g of the title compound as pure white crystals. MS M H 172.

Using 2S 3R 3 methoxymethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 42.1 in the last step of the synthesis the following example was prepared in the same way 

LC MS t 0.96 min M H 504 M H 502 method L . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 10.76 bs 1H 7.34 bs 1H 7.02 bs 1H 4.29 m 1H 3.45 m 1H 3.42 m 2H 3.22 s 3H 3.14 m 3H 2.97 m 2H 2.48 m 1H 1.97 m 1H 1.75 m 1H 1.62 s 6H .

The title compound was prepared using synthetic methodology described for the preparation of Example 39 and using 2S 3S 3 dimethylaminomethyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide Stage 43.1 instead of 2S 3R 3 methyl pyrrolidine 2 carboxylic acid amide in the last step of the synthesis.

LC MS t 0.91 min M H 463 M H 461 method L . H NMR d DMSO 400 MHz 10.7 bs 1H 7.36 s 1H 7.01 bs 1H 4.28 m 1H 3.67 dd 1H 3.39 m 1H 3.07 m 2H 2.92 m 2H 2.5 2.44 m 2H 2.30 m 1H 2.14 s 6H 1.95 m 1H 1.40 m 1H 1.36 s 9H .

PI3K KinaseGlo assay 50 nL of compound dilutions were dispensed onto black 384 well low volume Non Binding Styrene NBS plates Costar Cat. No. NBS 3676 . L a phosphatidylinositol PI provided as 10 mg ml solution in methanol was transferred into a glass tube and dried under nitrogen beam. It was then resuspended in 3 OctylGlucoside OG by vortexing and stored at 4 C. The KinaseGlo Luminescent Kinase Assay Promega Madison Wis. USA is a homogeneous HTS method of measuring kinase activity by quantifying the amount of ATP remaining in solution following a kinase reaction.

5 L of a mix of PI OG with the PI3K subtype were added Table 1 . Kinase reactions were started by addition of 5 l of ATP mix containing in a final volume 10 L 10 mM TRIS HCl pH 7.5 3 mM MgCl 50 mM NaCl 0.05 CHAPS 1 mM DTT and 1 M ATP and occurred at room temperature. Reactions were stopped with 10 l of KinaseGlo and plates were read 10 mins later in a Synergy2 reader using an integration time of 0.1 seconds per well. 2.5 M of a pan class 1 PI3 kinase inhibitor standard was added to the assay plates to generate the 100 inhibition of the kinase reaction and the 0 inhibition was given by the solvent vehicle 90 DMSO in water . The standard was used as a reference compound and included in all assay plates in the form of 16 dilution points in duplicate.

The PI3K PI3K and PI3K constructs are fusion of p85 iSH2 domain and the respective p110 isoforms. The p85 fragment and p110 isoform genes were generated by PCR from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial RNA from placenta testis and brain as described below. The PI3K construct was obtained from Roger Williams lab MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology Cambridge UK November 2003 and is described Pacold Michael E. Suire Sabine Perisic Olga Lara Gonzalez Samuel Davis Colin T. Walker Edward H. Hawkins Phillip T. Stephens Len Eccleston John F. Williams Roger L. Crystal structure and functional analysis of Ras binding to its effector phosphoinositide 3 kinase gamma. Cell 2000 103 6 931 943 .

BV1075 The construct for Baculovirus BV 1075 was generated by a three part ligation comprised of a p85 fragment and a p110 fragment cloned into vector pBlueBac4.5. The p85 fragment was derived from plasmid p1661 2 digested with Nhe Spe. The p110 fragment derived from is clone was verified by sequencing and used in a LR410 as a SpeI HindIII fragment. For the generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR410 the gateway LR reaction to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector was used. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was digested with Nhe HindIII. This resulted in the construct PED 153.8. The p85 component iSH2 was generated by PCR using ORF 318 described above as a template and one forward primer KAC1028 5 GCTAGCATGCGAGAATATGATAGAT TATATGAAG AATATACC SEQ ID No. 1 and two reverse primers KAC1029 5 GCCTCCACCAC CTCCGCCTG GTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC SEQ ID No. 2 and KAC1039 5 TACTAGTC CGCCTCCAC CACCTCCGCCTCCACCACCTCCGCC SEQ ID No. 3 . The two reverse primers overlap and incorporate the 12 Gly linker and the N terminal sequence of the p110 gene to the SpeI site. The 12 Gly linker replaces the single Gly linker in the BV1052 construct. The PCR fragment was cloned into pCR2.1 TOPO Invitrogen . Of the resulting clones p1661 2 was determined to be correct by sequencing. This plasmid was digested with Nhe and SpeI and the resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning.

The p110 cloning fragment was generated by enzymatic digest of clone LR410 see above with Spe I and HindIII. The SpeI site is in the coding region of the p110 gene. The resulting fragment was gel isolated and purified for sub cloning. The cloning vector pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen was prepared by enzymatic digestion with Nhe and HindIII. The cut vector was purified with Qiagen column and then dephosphorylated with Calf Intestine alkaline phosphatase CIP BioLabs . After completion of the CIP reaction the cut vector was again column purified to generate the final vector. A three part ligation was performed using Roche Rapid ligase and the vendor specifications. The final plasmid was verified by sequencing.

BV949 PCR products for the inter SH2 domain iSH2 of the p85 PI3K PI3K and PI3K subunit and for the full length p110 subunit were generated and fused by overlapping PCR. The iSH2 PCR product was obtained from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial human RNA from placenta testis and brain Clontech initially using primers gwG130 p01 5 CGAGAATATGATAGATTATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 5 and gwG130 p02 5 TGGTTT AATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTCAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 6 . Subsequently in a secondary PCR reaction Gateway recombination AttB1 sites and linker sequences were added at the 5 end and 3 end of the p85 iSH2 fragment respectively using primers gwG130 p03 5 GGGACAAGTT TGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACGAAGGAGATATACATATGCGAGAATATGATAGAT TATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 7 and gwG130 p05 5 ACTGAAGCATCCTCCTC CTCCTCCT CCTGGTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC 3 SEQ ID No. 8 . The p110 fragment was obtained by PCR using as template a p110 clone from unknown source that was sequence verified using primers gwG130 p04 5 ATTAAACCAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGATGCTT CAGTTTCATAATGCCTCCTGCT 3 SEQ ID No. 9 which contains linker sequences and the 5 end of p110 and gwG130 p06 5 AGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGATGTGCTCCAGATC TGTAGTCTTTCCGAA CTGTGTG 3 SEQ ID No. 10 which contains sequences of the 3 end of p110 fused to a Histidine tag. The p85 iSH2 p110 fusion protein was assembled by an overlapping PCR a reaction of the linkers at the 3 end of the iSH2 fragment and the 5 end of the p110 fragment using the above mentioned gwG130 p03 primer and a primer containing an overlapping Histidine tag and the AttB2 recombination sequences 5 GGGACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTAAGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGA TGTGCTCC 3 SEQ ID No. 11 . This final product was recombined in a Gateway Invitrogen OR reaction into the donor vector pDON R201 Invitrogen to generate the ORF253 entry clone. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR280. This LR280 has an amino acid mutation in the p85 sequence.

Construct obtained from Roger Williams lab MRC Laboratory of Molecular Biology Cambridge UK November 2003 . Description of the construct in Pacold Michael E. Suire Sabine Perisic Olga Lara Gonzalez Samuel Davis Colin T. Walker Edward H. Hawkins Phillip T. Stephens Len Eccleston John F. Williams Roger L. Crystal structure and functional analysis of Ras binding to its effector phosphoinositide 3 kinase gamma. Cell 2000 103 6 931 943 . Constructs lacking the N terminal 144 aa. Protein sequence of BV950 

BV1060 PCR products for the inter SH2 domain iSH2 of the p85 subunit and for the full length p110 subunit were generated and fused by overlapping PCR. The iSH2 PCR product was generated by using as a template the ORF318 see above and the primers gwG130 p03 5 GGGACAAG TTTGTACAAAAAAGCAGGCTACGAAGGAGATATACATATGC GAGAATATGATAGATTATATGAAGAAT 3 SEQ ID No. 7 and gwG154 p04 5 TCCTCCTCCT CCTCCTCCTGGTTTAATGCTGTTCATACGTTTGTC 3 SEQ ID No. 14 . The p110 fragment was obtained from first strand cDNA generated by RT PCR from commercial human RNA from placenta testis and brain Clontech using initially primers gwG154 p01 5 ATGCCCCCTGGGGTGGACTGCCCCAT 3 SEQ ID No. 15 and gwG154 p02 5 CTACTGCCTGT TGTCTTTGGACACGT 3 SEQ ID No. 16 . In a subsequent PCR reaction linker sequences and a Histidine tag was added at the 5 end and 3 end of the p110 fragment respectively using primers gw154 p03 5 ATTAAACCAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGAGGACCCCCTGGGGTGGAC TGCCCCATGGA 3 SEQ ID No. 17 and gwG154 p06 5 AGCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGAT GTGCT CCCTGCCTGTTGTCTTTGGACACGTTGT 3 SEQ ID No. 18 . The p85 iSH2 p110 fusion protein was assembled in a third PCR reaction by the overlapping linkers at the 3 end of the iSH2 fragment and the 5 end of the p110 fragment using the above mentioned gwG130 p03 primer and a primer containing an overlapping Histidine tag and the Gateway Invitrogen AttB2 recombination sequences 5 GGG ACCACTTTGTACAAGAAAGCTGGGTTTAA GCTCCGTGATGGTGATGGTGAGTGCTCC 3 SEQ ID No. 19 . This final product was recombined in a Gateway OR reaction into the donor vector pDONR201 Invitrogen to generate the ORF319 entry clone. This clone was verified by sequencing and used in a Gateway LR reaction Invitrogen to transfer the insert into the Gateway adapted pBlueBac4.5 Invitrogen vector for generation of the baculovirus expression vector LR415.

PI3K PI3K and PI3K were purified in two chromatographic steps immobilized metal affinity chromatography IMAC on a Ni sepharose resin GE Healthcare and gel filtration utilizing a Superdex 200 26 60 column GE Healthcare . All buffers were chilled to 4 C. and lysis was performed chilled on ice. Column fractionation was performed at room temperature. All buffers used to purify PI3K contained 0.05 Triton X100 in addition to what is described below.

Typically frozen cells from 10 L of Tn5 cell culture were resuspended in Lysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1ug mL okadaic acid OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free 20 tablets 1 L buffer Roche Applied Sciences benzonase 25 U mL buffer EMD Biosciences at a ratio of 1 6 v v pellet to Lysis Buffer ratio and mechanically lysed by douncing 20 strokes using a tight fitting pestle. The lysate was centrifuged at 45 000 g for 30 minutes and the supernatant was loaded onto a pre equilibrated IMAC column 3 mL resin 100 mL lysate . The column was washed with 3 5 column volumes of Lysis Buffer followed by a second wash of 3 5 column volumes with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 45 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Protein was eluted with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 250 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. The protein was further purified by gel filtration on a Superdex 200 26 60 column equilibrated in 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 0.5 M NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 5 mM DTT 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. An equal volume of Dialysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 50 glycerol 5 mM NaF 5 mM DTT was added to the pool and than dialyzed against Dialysis Buffer two changes one change overnight . Protein was stored at 20 C.

PI3K was purified in three chromatographic steps immobilized metal affinity chromatography on a Ni Sepharose resin GE Healthcare gel filtration utilizing a Superdex 200 26 60 column GE Healthcare and finally a ion exchange step on a Q HP column GE Healthcare . All buffers were chilled to 4 C. and lysis was performed chilled on ice. Column fractionation was performed at room temperature.

Typically frozen cells from 10 L of Tn5 cell culture were resuspended in Lysis Buffer 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 5 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL okadaic acid OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free 20 tablets 1 L buffer Roche Applied Sciences benzonase 25 U mL lysis buffer EMD Biosciences at a ratio of 1 10 v v pellet to Lysis Buffer ratio and mechanically lysed by douncing 20 strokes using a tight fitting pestle. The lysate was centrifuged at 45 000 g for 30 minutes and the supernatant was loaded onto a pre equilibrated IMAC column 5 mL resin 100 mL lysate . The column was washed with 3 5 column volumes of Lysis Buffer followed by a second wash of 3 5 column volumes with 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 40 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Protein was eluted with 20 mM tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 250 mM imidazole 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM BME 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. The protein was further purified by gel filtration on a Superdex 200 equilibrated in 20 mM Tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM DTT 1 Complete protease inhibitor cocktail EDTA free. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. These fractions were diluted 1 10 v v pool volume to buffer ratio with Buffer A 20 mM tris Cl pH 8.2 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM DTT and loaded onto a prepared Q HP column. After sample loading is completed we wash with Buffer A and 5 Buffer B 20 mM tris Cl pH 8.2 1 M NaCl 5 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 ug mL OAA 5 mM DTT for 3 5 column volumes. We elute the protein using a 5 30 gradient of Buffer B. Typically the protein elutes at 200 mM NaCl. Pertinent fractions were analyzed by SDS PAGE and pooled accordingly. An equal volume of Dialysis Buffer 20 mM tris Cl pH 7.5 500 mM NaCl 50 glycerol 1 mM NaF 0.1 g mL OAA 5 mM DTT was added to the pool and then dialyzed against Dialysis Buffer two changes one change overnight . Protein was stored at 20 C.

