---

title: Physologically movable intervertebral disc prosthesis for the lumbar and cervical spine
abstract: Disclosed is an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of a natural intervertebral disc within the lumbar and cervical spine, comprising of articulating sliding partners. The upper sliding partner has means for a firm assembly to an upper vertebral body and the lower sliding partner has means for a firm assembly to a lower vertebral body. At least one sliding surface is between two sliding partners. Two- and three-part functional designs are planned and both having in common, that, as a result of the shape of the articulating surface(s), the laterolateral and dorsoventral motion amplitudes differ. The resulting angles including the rotation around a fictitious vertical axis can be defined to a desired extent.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08403989&OS=08403989&RS=08403989
owner: 
number: 08403989
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100202
---
This is a divisional application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 379 080 filed Apr. 18 2006 which is a continuation in part application of international application no. PCT DE2005 001884 filed Oct. 18 2005 designating the U.S. and claiming priority from international application no. PCT DE2004 002331 filed Oct. 18 2004. These applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The invention relates to an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of an intervertebral disc of the lumbar and cervical spine.

The idea of function retaining artificial replacements for intervertebral discs is younger than that for replacements of artificial joints of extremities but nonetheless about 50 years old B ttner Janz Hochschuler McAfee Eds. The Artificial Disc. Springer Verlag Berlin Heidelberg New York 2003 . It is a response to biomechanical considerations unsatisfactory results of fusion surgeries disorders adjacent to fusion segments and the development of new materials with greater longevity.

The publications and other materials including patents used herein to illustrate the invention and in particular to provide additional details respecting the practice are incorporated herein by reference.

By means of function retaining disc implants it is possible to avoid fusion surgery i.e. to maintain or to restore the mobility within the intervertebral disc space. In an in vitro experiment it is also possible to achieve a normalization of the biomechanical properties of the motion segment to a large extent through the implantation of an artificial intervertebral disc after a nucleotomy.

Implants for the replacement of the whole intervertebral disc differ from those for the replacement of the nucleus pulposus. Accordingly implants for the total replacement of the intervertebral disc are voluminous they are implanted via a ventral approach. An implantation of a prosthesis for total replacement of the intervertebral disc immediately after a standard nucleotomy can therefore not be carried out.

The indication for a function retaining intervertebral disc replacement as an alternative to the surgical fusion includes besides the painful discopathy also pre operated patients with a so called post discectomy syndrome patients with a recurrent herniated intervertebral disc within the same segment and patients having a pathology within the neighboring intervertebral disc as a consequence of fusion surgery.

Presently a total of more than 10 different prostheses are clinically used for the total replacement of intervertebral discs. For the lumbar spine the CHARIT Artificial Disc the PRODISC the MAVERICK the FLEXICORE and the MOBIDISC Overview in Clinica Reports PJB Publications Ltd. June 2004 are particularly well known and for the cervical spine the BRYAN prosthesis the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis the PRODISC C and the PCM prosthesis which will be described below.

Following its further development to PRODISC II the PRODISC prosthesis has been in use as a lumbar spine implant since 1999. Although with respect to its components a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis it is functionally a two part prosthesis with its sliding partners made of metal and polyethylene. Implantations of the PRODISC are carried out in the lumbar spine and with an adapted model of the prosthesis the PRODISC C also in the cervical spine. Different sizes heights achieved by the polyethylene core and angles of lordosis achieved by the metal endplates are available. Bending forward and backward as well as to the right and to the left is possible to the same extent of motion the axial rotation is not limited in the construction.

The same applies to both two part prostheses for the cervical spine the PCM prosthesis with its sliding partners metal and polyethylene and the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis with its sliding partners metal metal. As special feature of the construction of the PRESTIGE LP prosthesis it has the possibility for an anterior posterior translation due to the horizontal ventrally prolonged concavity which in a frontal section has the same radius as the convexity.

The MAVERICK and the FLEXICORE for the lumbar spine are functionally a two part prostheses with spherical convex concave sliding partners both with sliding partners made of metal. In contrast the MOBIDISC is functionally a three part prosthesis with sliding partners of metal polyethylene and two articulation surfaces. One area is a segment of a sphere as it is in the three afore mentioned prostheses with a convex and a concave surface of the articulating partners each of the same radius the other area of the MOBIDISC being plane. Although a limitation of the axial rotation is planned within the plane section it is not limited within the convex concave area of articulation. In contrast the FLEXICORE has a small stopping area within the spherical sliding surfaces limiting the rotation movement.

The BRYAN prosthesis is clinically used as a compact prosthesis for total replacement of intervertebral discs of the cervical spine. It is attached to the vertebral bodies by convex titanium plates with a porous surface and achieves its biomechanical properties by virtue of a polyurethane nucleus.

The longest experience exists with the CHARIT prosthesis which is the subject matter of DE 35 29 761 C2 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269 specifications. This prosthesis was developed in 1982 by Dr. Schellnack and Dr. B ttner Janz at the Charit in Berlin and was later on named SB CHARIT prosthesis. In 1984 the first surgery took place. The intervertebral disc prosthesis was further developed into model III and has been implanted over 10 000 times worldwide DE 35 29 761 C2 U.S. Pat. No. 5 401 269 since 1987 and is still being used. The prosthesis is functionally three parted with the sliding partners being metal and polyethylene with two identical spherical sliding surfaces. On the one hand it has a transversally mobile polyethylene core and on the other hand the accordingly adapted concave cups within two metal endplates. For the adaptation to the intervertebral space the CHARIT prosthesis provides different sizes of metal plates and different heights of size adapted sliding cores as well as angled prosthetic endplates which when implanted vice versa in sagittal direction can also be used as replacement for the vertebral body. The primary fixation of the CHARIT prosthesis is achieved by six teeth which are located in groups of three slightly towards the middle next to the frontal and rear edge of each prosthetic plate.

The other prosthesis have other primary fixations on their surfaces directed towards the intervertebral bodies e.g. a sagitally running keel a structured surface a convex shape with for instance crosswise running grooves and combinations thereof also with differently located teeth. Furthermore screw fixations can be used either from ventral or from within the intervertebral space into the intervertebral body.

To assure a long term fixation of the prosthetic endplates to the intervertebral bodies and to thus generate a firm connection with the bone a surface was created in similitude to cement free hip and knee prostheses which combines chrome cobalt titanium and calcium phosphate in such a way that it is possible for bone to grow directly onto the endplates. This direct connection between prosthesis and bone without the development of connective tissue makes a long term fixation of the artificial intervertebral disc possible and reduces the danger of loosening or displacements of the prosthesis and material breakage.

One primary objective of function retaining intervertebral disc replacements is to closely adapt the motions of the prosthesis to the ones of a healthy intervertebral disc. Directly connected to this is the motion and stress for the facet joints which following inappropriate biomechanical stress have their own potential for disorders. There can be abrasion of the facet joints arthritis spondylarthritis with a formation of osteophytes. As result of these osteophytes and also by a pathologic course of motion of the intervertebral disc alone the irritation of neural structures is possible.

A healthy intervertebral disc is in its interactions with other elements of the motion segment composed in such a way that it allows for limited motion. For example within the intervertebral disc motions to the front and back are combined with rotary motions and side motions are also combined with other motions. The motion amplitudes of a healthy intervertebral disc are very different with respect to the extension bending back and flexion bending forward as well as to the lateral bending right and left and rotary motion. Although of common basic characteristics there are differences between the motion amplitudes of the lumbar and cervical spine.

During motion of the intervertebral disc the center of rotation changes i.e. the motion of the intervertebral disc does not take place around a fixed center. Due to a simultaneous translation movement of the adjacent vertebrae the center changes its position constantly inconstant center of rotation . The prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 shows a construction which differs relative to other available types of prostheses which are build like a ball and socket joint and as a result move around a defined localized centre of rotation. By virtue of the three part assembly of the prosthesis according to DE 35 29 761 C2 with two metallic endplates and the interpositioned freely mobile polyethylene sliding core the course of motion of a healthy intervertebral disc of the human spine is mimicked as far as possible however without the exact motion amplitudes in the specific motion directions.

A further important feature of the healthy lumbar intervertebral disc is its trapezium shape which is primarily responsible for the lordosis of the lumbar and cervical spine. The vertebral bodies themselves contribute only to a minor extent to the lordosis. During prosthetic replacement of intervertebral discs the lordosis should be maintained or reconstructed. The CHARIT disc prosthesis provides four differently angled endplates which moreover can be combined with each other. However this surgery requires more surgical effort and has the risk of damaging the vertebral endplates which is associated with a danger of subsidence of the prosthesis into the vertebral bodies. Additionally if the adjustment of the lordosis is poor and an optimal load of the center of the polyethylene core was not achieved the prosthesis has to be removed completely.

To avoid sliding or a slip out of the middle sliding partner from the endplates DE 35 29 761 C2 discloses a sliding core with a two sided partly spherical surface lenticular with a plane leading margin and at the exterior with a ring bulge which will lock between the form adapted endplates during extreme motion. DE 102 42 329 A1 discloses a similar intervertebral disc prosthesis which has a groove around the contact surfaces in which an elastic ring is embedded that is in contact with the opposite contact area to improved guidance. EP 0 560 141 B1 describes a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis which also consists of two endplates and an interpositioned prosthetic core. The intervertebral disc prosthesis described in this document provides resistance during rotation of its endplates in opposing directions around a vertical rotary axis without a contact between the prosthetic endplates. This is achieved by a soft limitation of the endplates during rotation onto the prosthesis core caused by the weight which acts on the plates as a result of the biomechanical load transfer within the spine because the corresponding radii of curvature differ in a median sagittal and frontal transection.

The above mentioned models are permanently anchored in the intervertebral spaces as implants. Especially due to a load transfer over too small surface areas a migration of the endplates into the vertebral bodies and thus a dislocation of the complete implant is possible in middle to long term resulting in artificial stress for the vertebral bodies and the adjacent nerves and in the end for the total motion segment and leading to new complaints of the patients. The long term stability of the polyethylene and the restricted mobility of the intervertebral disc prosthesis due to an inappropriate load on the polyethylene within the intervertebral space have to be discussed. Insufficiently adapted ranges of motion and adverse biomechanical stress in the motion segment can possibly lead to persistence of the complaints or later on to new complaints of the patients.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 068 B2 on the other hand describes an intervertebral disc prosthesis comprising an upper and lower part in which the parts are built correspondently towards each other. No intermediate part as middle sliding partner exists. Different designs are realized for the interdigitating and articulating partners resulting in a two part prosthesis. The design is however limited to structures having either edges or corners so that both parts of the prosthesis articulate with each other in this case it is not possible to speak of sliding partners. Furthermore two sliding partners are described having one convex part towards the interior of the prosthesis and the other sliding partner is correspondingly shaped concavely. This kind of prosthesis however allows restricted movements of the artificial intervertebral disc only. The concave protuberance corresponds to a part of a ball with the according radius. U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 068 B2 further shows a two part disc prosthesis having convex and concave partial areas on each sliding partner corresponding to concave and convex partial areas of the other sliding partner. According to the disclosure of U.S. Pat. No. 6 706 068 B2 several fixed points of rotation are generated.

The U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 discloses a two part disc prosthesis in which the two endplates articulate with each other by a ball and socket joint. The joint is located centrally in the frontal section. In a lateral view the small area of articulation is positioned outside the middle. The articulation areas are spherical in a sagittal view and plane in a frontal view at the end s small and partly spherical parts are followed by plane skewed ones these parts have no contact when the other parts of the joint are in contact. Bending to one side with a prosthesis according to the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 is achieved by use of the partly spherical margin of the articulation areas. Whether the lateral inner parts of the endplates come into contact with each other cannot be clearly discerned from the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031. At least during one lateral motion the laterally outwardly opened areas in the bilateral part of the articulation areas do not come into contact. Therefore during lateral bending of the endplates according to the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 the pressure is partly on the spherical margins of the articulation areas only. Because of the pressure distribution only onto points or small areas during side bending the outer parts of the convex concave parts are exposed to greater abrasion. The margins of the prosthesis also do not have contact over a large area during the different movements. If the prosthesis according to the U.S. Pat. No. 5 258 031 provides rotation around a vertical axis there is only a bilateral punctiform contact area between the upper and lower endplates.

Refer to EP 1 188 423 A1 for the technical background of intervertebral disc prostheses which describes an arthroplastic device for intervertebral spaces comprising a ball and socket joint between a first and a second element for the surgery in a first and a second vertebra of the spine. Furthermore refer to US 2003 0208273 A1 which discloses a two part intervertebral disc prosthesis with a convex concave articulation area.

Thus there is a need for an intervertebral disc prosthesis for the total replacement of intervertebral discs with which the extent of the movement can be specifically adapted to the anatomy and biomechanics of the lumbar and cervical spine distributing the pressure load at the end of movements onto as large as possible areas of the sliding partners.

This need is addressed by the present invention. The invention comprises two different types of an intervertebral disc prosthesis namely a functionally two part and a functionally three part prosthesis.

Both prostheses comprise articulation sliding partners of which each upper sliding partner is firmly assembled to an upper vertebral body and each lower sliding partner is firmly assembled to a lower vertebral body and that the sliding partners form interdigitating articulation areas on their inner surfaces that are directed toward each other. Upper and lower sliding partners of a three part prosthesis as well as both sliding partners of a two part prosthesis at the same time act as endplates having means for assembly to an upper or lower vertebral body.

For the narrow anatomical space of the cervical spine both two and three part prosthesis are intended. The two part prosthesis can also be of advantage for the lumbar spine in prosthetic implantations in multiple adjacent intervertebral spaces because of its model immanent stability. The three part intervertebral disc prosthesis has the advantage that the transversal sliding of two neighboring vertebrae is minimal resulting in a favorable adaptation to the biomechanics of the motion segment. Furthermore the three part prosthesis enables the simulation of an inconstant center of rotation.

With respect to the presented invention the three body axes are described by the following terms A sagittal section or a view in the sagittal plane enables a lateral view because the section plane runs vertically from the front to the back. The term front is synonymous ventral and the term back to dorsal . By using these terms the orientation of the prosthesis within the body is indicated. A frontal section or the frontal plane is a vertical cross section from one side to the other. The term lateral stands for sidewise. Sagittal and frontal sections are vertical sections as they both run in a vertical plane but 90 degree displaced from one another. A view in the transversal plane or a transversal section shows a top view onto the prosthesis because it is a horizontal section.

With respect to the description and depiction of the presented invention an articulation area signifies that region of the sliding partners which comprises the curved convex and concave parts of the surfaces which come into contact or articulate with each other. Because of this the term articulation area is synonymous with the term sliding area.

The term corresponding with respect to the articulating sliding areas designates not only congruent convexly and concavely shaped areas articulating with each other but also designates articulating surfaces that are not completely congruent. Such deviations or tolerances regarding the sliding areas of articulating sliding partners can be caused on the one hand by the chosen materials and shapes. On the other hand it may also be intended that the articulating convexity and concavity are not totally congruent for instance in order to designate the desired possibilities of motion for each the articulating partners directly.

As per the invention both prostheses have the potential for laterolateral and dorsoventral motion amplitudes that differ in magnitude and the resulting angles including the rotation around a fictitious vertical axis can be defined to their respective extent.

The different lateral and dorsoventral motion angles of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention result from the design of the convex concave articulation areas and stand in relation to each other because the radii of curvature on which they are based are advantageously defined by a single geometric contiguity according to point a a. from claim and point a from claim . Thus the resulting convex surfaces always have a greater radius in a frontal section than in a sagittal section. A complete rotation body according to the features of the independent claims a a. and a has without an edge the shape of an American football or a spindle in which the diameter increases equally continuously from each side to the middle.

Generally speaking the radii of curvature of the convexity of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention are always smaller in a sagittal section than every radius of curvature in a frontal or transversal section. Lower angles of motion for the lateral movements than for extension flexion result from this correlation as it is the case with the motion angles in a natural intervertebral disc. Thus the possible angles of motion of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention come close to the ones of a natural intervertebral disc.

A further nonlimiting advantage of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention is that in certain embodiments in addition to its approximated angles of motion which come close to the natural degrees of motion the rotation is limited softly by a plane contact area. This is in contrast to the so far known intervertebral disc prostheses with either a small or nearly pointed firm stop for the limitation of the rotation or to intervertebral disc prostheses with convex surfaces derived from a spherical cap with a transition to an for instance ellipsoid form also with a very small plane or pointed limitation of rotation. The design of the convexities and corresponding concavities as per the invention assures a protection of the articulating surfaces because the sliding partners cannot be twisted against each other to such an extent that they come in contact by single points only which would have to bear the whole pressure lasting on the upper and lower sliding partners. Because of this the material or the coating of the sliding partners is less exposed to strain so that an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention is clearly more durable than the prostheses known from the present state of the art.

Besides the advantages resulting from the design of the convex concave parts of the articulation surfaces as per the invention the intervertebral disc prostheses may have further advantages. The concavities of upper and lower sliding partner of a two and three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention are each enclosed by an edge whereas the convexities of a middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis range through the whole upper and lower side i.e. the convexities are without edge or the convexities are each enclosed by an edge with a similar or different breadth.

An edge as per the invention indicates an area located between outer rim of the respective sliding partner and convexity ies or concavity ies . The edges of the respective sliding partners run horizontally and or at an incline and preferably have a plane surface. It is essential for the design of the surfaces of the edges that during terminal inclination of the sliding partners towards each other a gap closure across a maximally possible area between the edges of the sliding partners is achieved. Should the edges not have a plane surface they have to in any case be designed in such a way that during gap closure a maximally possible contact arises between them.

In a preferred version the heights of the edges in the direct transition area between the articulating surfaces and the area of the edge are differently constructed around the convexity or concavity. The differences in the heights of the edges can on the one hand serve towards the adaptation of the respective maximally possible motions of the sliding partners. On the other hand partly minimal differences in the height of the edge for instance dorsoventral to laterolateral may be caused during production. As per the invention the height of the edges around convexity ies and concavity ies particularly in the direct transition area of the articulating area with the area of the edge may also be equal so that there are no differences between the arrangement of the respective heights in dorsoventral to laterolateral direction.

The edges of the convexity ies and concavity ies always have without incline of the sliding partners toward each other an outwardly opening angle aperture angle in every vertical section plane. The maximal inclination angles are limited by contact of the transition area between concavity ies and the area of the edge surrounding the concavity ies and the transition area of the corresponding convexity ies and if present the edge surrounding the convexity ies . Although this contact is limiting for the further motion of the sliding partners towards each other it is not the only area outside the concave convex articulation areas which come into contact at terminal inclination. The edges of the sliding partners up unto their peripheral rim are designed in such a way that these also take part at maximum contact. For this purpose the edges have a higher aperture angle ventrally and dorsally than laterally with a smooth transition in the regions of different heights so that during terminal inclination a gap closure of the edges is possible. This is because of the greater possibilities for ventral and dorsal inclination and the thus otherwise remaining ventral and dorsal gap during terminal inclination. The closing of the edges is depending on the direction of motion and direction of the aspect complete or incomplete.

By this measure as per the invention the load bearing area is increased at gap closure during which an inclination of the prosthesis up to its limitation takes place. The areas in contact are further protected against abrasion because the pressure is taken up by a plane surface and not by pointed contact areas resulting in a clearly more durable prosthesis.

Regarding the material of the prosthesis as per the invention it is intended that the sliding partners are constructed as a single piece or at least one sliding partner comprises at least two permanent or firmly but reversibly attached parts and the convexity ies and or the concavity ies are the parts being permanent or firmly but reversibly attached to the corresponding sliding partner or the convexity ies and or concavity ies have suitable means for a permanent or firmly but reversible assembly wherein parts connected with each other comprise the same or different materials or the surfaces of the parts are coated equally or differently. As suitable means for the assembly adaptations of the shape of the parts to be connected as per the invention are intended such as recesses or plane broadenings as part of the edge or making up the whole edge. Depending on the chosen design the respective sliding partners and or convexity and or concavity as well as the edge are designated as parts that are to be connected. In the case of a middle sliding partner it is also intended that it results from the assembly of the respective parts.

Where an intervertebral disc prosthesis comprises permanent or firmly but reversibly attached parts it is intended that the assembly is achieved by a tongue and groove assembly a track and corresponding recess a snap mechanism by gluing or screwing.

For a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention it is intended that upper and lower sliding partner comprise the same material or are equally coated and the middle sliding partner is made of a different material or is differently coated. It is further intended that all three sliding partners are made of the same material or have the same coating.

The sliding partners are preferably manufactured from well established materials from implantation techniques for instance upper and lower sliding partner are made of rustproof metal and the middle sliding partner of medicinal polyethylene. Other combinations of materials are also feasible. The use of other alloplastic materials which may also be bio active is intended as well. The sliding partners are preferably high gloss polished at their communicating contact areas to minimize abrasion low friction principle . Furthermore a coating of the particular sliding partners with appropriate materials is also planned. Favored materials are titanium titanium alloys titanium carbide alloys of cobalt and chrome or other appropriate metals tantalum or appropriate tantalum alloys suitable ceramic materials as well as suitable plastics or compound materials.

In a favored design of a three part prosthesis as per the invention it is intended that the radii of curvature of the convexities of upper and lower side of the middle sliding partner as well as the corresponding concavities of the upper and lower sliding partners are identical. In the case of identically curved convexities on upper and lower side it is dependent on the design furthermore intended that the maximal heights of the convexities of the middle sliding partner on the upper and lower side are to a same or different extent less than in case of a common axis of rotation of a segment of a circle according to point 2 a a. and in case of a present edge the height of the edge is reduced by the same amount as the height of the convexities or the height of the edge remains unchanged or is differently changed than the height of the convexities with the maximal height of the convexities on the upper and lower side being equal or different.

By these measures as per the invention the total height of the prosthesis is reduced because the middle sliding partner is flattened. At the same time the articulating areas are increased in size resulting in a gentle w.r.t. the material load transfer within the intervertebral space. By this design dimensions of the prosthesis are thus reached which make it possible to implant it in physiologically especially small intervertebral spaces. Additionally such a design enables the variability of the height of the middle sliding partner and thus the possibility of adapting a prosthesis to the required height.

Furthermore designs are intended where the radii of curvature of the convexities of upper and lower side of the middle sliding partner as well as the corresponding concavities of the upper and lower sliding partners are different. As a result the possibilities to adapt the degree of motion of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention to the physiological degree of motion are expanded. Even at different radii of curvature of the convexities on the upper and lower side of a middle sliding partner a design is intended where the maximal height of the convexities of the middle sliding partner is equally or differently lower on the upper and lower side than in axes of rotation according to point 2 a a. of two differently curved segments of a circle and or in the case of an edge the height of the edge is reduced by the same amount as the height of the convexity ies or the height of the edge remains the same or is different from the change of height of the convexity ies with the maximal heights of the convexities on the upper and lower side of the middle sliding partner thereby being equal or different.

A slip out of the middle sliding partner from this compact design of a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention is prevented by the motion adapted heights of the convexities on the upper and lower side and the corresponding concavities starting with the edge around the articulation areas and by the closed gap between the edges of the sliding partners at terminal inclination. The convexities are designed in such a way that they will interdigitate deeply enough into the articulating concavities. A sufficient opening of the whole prosthesis post operatively which is a prerequisite for a slip out of the middle sliding partner is thus not possible.

For a two or three part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention a maximal aperture angle of 6 10 including for example 6 7 6 8 6 9 7 8 7 9 7 10 8 9 or 8 10 during one sided gap closure of the sliding partners during extension or flexion and of 3 6 including for example 4 6 5 6 3 4 3 5 or 4 5 during one sided lateral gap closure is intended. The concrete maximal motions can be constructively adapted for the lumbar and cervical spine without the need of an individual prosthesis for every single intervertebral disc. The aperture angles correspond to the natural segment mobility and are reached by suitable choices of convexity ies and concavity ies in connection with the design of the surrounding edges see above . To compensate for tolerances within the motion segment an additional 3 will be included for every direction of motion.

In both a functional two part and functional three part prosthesis the rotation of the sliding partners around a fictitious central vertical axis is stopped at congruency of the convexity ies and concavity ies between the articulating sliding partners.

In a further design of a two or three part intervertebral disc prosthesis it is intended that the concavity is formed laterally broader than the corresponding convexity. The concave recess is laterally broadened and the broadening is rounded off. This rounded off shape complies with the shape of the convexity. The shape can also be a concave section of a torus which laterolaterally has the same radius of curvature as the convexity has laterolateral. By this design as per the invention a limited rotation is enabled which depending on the degree of the lateral broadening allows a rotation to each side around a fictitious vertical axis of up to 3 degrees including up to about 2 degrees and up to about 1 degree for the lumbar spine and up to 6 degrees including up to about 5 degrees up to about 4 degrees up to about 3 degrees up to about 2 degrees and up to about 1 degree for the cervical spine. To compensate for tolerances within the motion segment an additional 2 degrees including for example about one degree to each side is included.

In the case a concavity is laterally broader than the articulating convexity the convexity can turn within the concave recess along a diagonal. Depending on the embodiment of the lateral broadening a limited rotation of the sliding partners against each other can be achieved without a change of the total height of the prosthesis. In any case the rotation of the convexity is however limited by the resistance which results from the motion of the convexity of the prosthesis onto the margin of the articulation area of the concavity.

In an alternative design of the concavity of an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention it is intended that the concavity that corresponds to the convexity is built as a hollow ball shaped recess and where the radius of curvature corresponds to the bigger radius of curvature of the corresponding convexity.

Theoretically in such articulation partners an unlimited rotation of the sliding partners in a three part prosthesis of the middle sliding partner is feasible. That is why such a design is particularly intended for two part prostheses because an unlimited rotation of a middle sliding partner is impossible by virtue of its assembly to an upper or lower vertebral body.

In a further preferred design of a two or three part intervertebral disc prostheses as per the invention a shift of up to 4 mm including up to about 3 mm about 2 mm or about 1 mm away from a midline sagittal section to dorsal of the convexity ies and corresponding concavity ies is intended.

A dorsally displaced center of rotation particularly corresponds above all to the physiological situation between the lumbar spine and the sacral bone and at same time the differences between the possible inclination angles in extension and flexion are achieved.

It is furthermore intended that the edges of the sliding partners end outwardly rectangular otherwise angular curved or combined straight curved and or angular. Especially for a three part prosthesis an embodiment of prosthesis with middle sliding partner with a edge is conceivable in which upper and lower side of the middle sliding partner end rectangularly or curved in the outer edge regions and the breadth of the edge is designed equally or differently than the upper and lower sliding partner. Thus the middle sliding partner remains between the upper and lower sliding partner during terminal inclination because during gap closure the concavity of the upper and or lower sliding partner covers the corresponding respective convexity of the middle sliding partner beyond its maximal height.

In a further design of a three part intervertebral disc prosthesis it is intended that the height of the middle sliding partner partly or totally continuously increases beginning from the transition area between the convexity and the edge up unto the peripheral edge area. This is intended without the size of the aperture angle changing as a result of an adaptation to the height of the edge of the upper and lower sliding partners. This dovetail shape of the edge of the middle sliding partner increases its safety against a dislocation.

As per the invention a shape for the upper and lower sliding partner is intended for three part prosthesis in which the peripheral edge areas are complete or partly hook shaped perpendicular otherwise angular curved or a combination thereof in direction of the other outer sliding partner. In this design the edge of the middle sliding partner is narrower there so that the middle sliding partner is partly or completely covered by the feature of one or both outer sliding partners in order to prevent a slip out of the middle sliding device. Advantageously the edge of the middle sliding partner is adapted in such a way to the shape of the edge of the outer sliding partners that during terminal gap closure as high as possible an area of the articulating sliding partners comes into contact.

Furthermore it is intended as per the invention to provide a three part prosthesis in which there is as an additional safeguard for the middle sliding partner with an edge a stop against a slip out slip away or slip aside luxation out of the prosthesis during a gap closure. This is part of the outer edge of the middle sliding partner. The stop of the middle sliding partner is located next to the periphery of the upper and or lower sliding partner and it is higher at least on the upper or the lower side than the edge of the middle sliding partner.

This stop as an additional safeguard against a slip out slip away or slip aside luxation out of the prosthesis as per the invention also is designed in such a way that it is a part of the edge of the middle sliding core. It is higher than the edge of the middle sliding partner at the upper or lower side and is led within a groove in the edge of the upper and or the lower sliding partner with the necessary tolerance for the maximal sliding motion of the sliding partners.

As per the invention a stop is an outwardly directed extension of the edge of a middle sliding partner which as result of its design is suited to prevent a slip out of the middle sliding partner out of the concavities of the upper and lower sliding partner. It is not necessary that it encloses the middle sliding partner completely because this could result in a limitation of the maximal mobility of all sliding partners. Where required it is rather arranged in definite distances or opposite of positions of the edge which represent possible positions for a slip out of the middle sliding partner. If the stop is higher on the upper and lower side than the edge of the middle sliding partner it can for instance be shaped like a drawing pin sticking with the tip from outside into the edge so that the head of the drawing pin juts out over the upper and lower edge of the middle sliding partner and prevents a slip out of the middle sliding partner during a terminal inclination in direction of the drawing pin by stopping its movement via contact to the upper and lower sliding partner.

If a stop as a safeguard to prevent slip out is part of the edge of the sliding partners the height of the convexity depends only with regard to the anatomy and the material properties on the desired maximal inclination angles which is also influenced by them see above .

A stop to secure the middle sliding partner of a three part prosthesis is advantageously shaped in such a way that it is part of the contact areas during gap closure of the edges of the sliding partners. The stop not only has a securing function but additionally it increases the load bearing area during terminal inclination of the sliding partners the advantages of this have been described above. The possibility for such a design however depends crucially on the external shape of the upper and lowers sliding partners and the respective breadth of the edge of the convexity and concavity.

Further it is intended for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention that the outer circumferences of the upper and lower sliding partners may taper off from dorsal to ventral lumbar spine or from ventral to dorsal cervical spine in a transversal view. This tapering off of the outer circumferences of the upper and lower sliding partners may laterally have the shape of identical curves and preferably a segment of a circle. Where necessary area and shape of the outer circumference of the upper and lower sliding partners can be equal or unequal and thus be adapted to the size of the respective vertebral body with which they are assembled.

The tapering off shape of the upper and lower sliding partners of the prosthetic plates correspond generally speaking to the usable area of a vertebral body in a transversal view resulting in an optimal use of the area at disposal for anchoring the sliding partners with the aim of using a maximized area for load transfer acting on the sliding partners.

Adaptations to the sliding partners as per the invention of the intervertebral disc prosthesis are further intended in which upper and or lower sliding partners are built in such a way in a frontal and or sagittal section that the out and inside of the upper and or lower sliding partners are parallel or not parallel to each other. By this measure as per the invention an intervertebral disc prosthesis can be adapted to vertebral body endplates which are not standing parallel in a frontal view or which in a sagittal view should build an optimal lordosis and positioning of the sliding areas.

It is further intended that in a two and three part design as per the invention the convexity two part prosthesis or the middle sliding partner three part prosthesis is parallel or non parallel with respect to a fictitious horizontal. In the case of an non parallel design the upper and lower sides stand in an angle with respect to a fictitious horizontal with the angle being the same above and below or different with a middle sliding partner. The convexity ies and corresponding concavity ies in the two and three part prosthesis are symmetrical or asymmetrical in their surface design. By virtue of the angular convexity or the angular middle sliding partner adaptations to asymmetries of the intervertebral space into which the prosthesis is to be implanted are also possible.

For a reliable anchorage of the implants within the intervertebral space a marginal and or plane interdigitation of the exterior sides of the upper and lower sliding partners serves for the connection with an upper and lower vertebral body. The exterior sides themselves are flat or convex in shape and it is possible to coat the interdigitation or the vertebra directed surfaces with or without interdigitation bio actively or bluntly. To minimize the risk of a fracture an interdigitation with three ventral and two dorsally arranged anchoring teeth is advantageous. As an alternative laterally continuously arranged rows of teeth are favoured for an improved guidance of the upper and lower sliding partners during implantation between the vertebral bodies because the forceps of the surgeon can grip in the middle gap between the rows of teeth or into holes of the upper and lower sliding partners at the level with the teeth.

To facilitate implantation or explantation of the intervertebral disc prosthesis the upper and or lower sliding partners are furbished with provisions for instruments in a further design. These provisions preferably comprise holes or moulds which the required instrument of the surgeon can grip so that a secure fixation of the respective sliding partner is possible.

Furthermore as absolute measurements for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention a maximal width frontal view of 14 to 48 mm including about 16 mm about 18 mm about 20 mm about 22 mm about 24 mm about 26 mm about 28 mm about 30 mm about 32 mm about 34 mm about 36 mm about 38 mm about 40 mm about 42 mm about 44 mm or about 46 mm a maximal depth sagittal view of 11 to 35 mm including about 13 about 15 mm about 17 mm about 19 mm about 21 mm about 23 mm about 25 mm about 27 mm about 29 mm about 31 mm about 33 mm and a maximal height of 4 to 18 mm including about 6 mm about 8 mm about 10 mm about 12 mm about 14 mm or about 16 mm are intended. These measurements are taken from the natural conditions of the lumbar and cervical spine and assure that the situation with an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention comes very close to the in vivo situation.

Further for an intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention one or more X ray contrast providing markers are provided which are located under the surface of each of the non X ray contrast providing parts of the prosthesis. That way it is possible to exactly control the position of these parts of the intervertebral disc prosthesis after the implantation. Furthermore it is possible to check if these parts have changed their position or if they are still in the right position in defined timely intervals.

Further advantageous measures are described in the dependent claims the invention is described in the following by examples and figures.

In part A of the figure shows how the curvation of a convexity of a sliding partner can be derived from a circumference and originates from the rotation of the smaller segment of a circle which is indicated by the arrow around the secant . Part B of the figure shows the shape resulting from the rotation which is in case of a rotation identical in a frontal and transversal section. In a sagittal section C of the solid body which originates from the rotation of the smaller segment of a circle around the secant it has in each view a circular cross section. The radii within the sagittal section decrease continuously from the middle of the geometric body to both lateral sides.

In the left schematically depicts a frontal view of a sliding area of an intervertebral two part prosthesis as per the invention. The right part of schematically shows a sagittal view. The figure illustrates the identical heights of the convexity within the frontal and sagittal view and that the 90 degree shifted radii of curvature differ clearly from each other. The broken line represents a maximally inclined upper sliding partner with concavity articulating with the convexity of a lower sliding partner of a two part prosthesis. For an exact depiction of the angular correlations around the convexity the edge B surrounding the convexity always has the same height. As can be seen from both views of the transition area of the concavity to the surfaces of the edge A is the part of the prosthesis limiting the mobility of the sliding partners to each other because these parts of the sliding partner come into contact without the edges A and B having closed gaps at terminal inclination. A smaller mobility of the sliding partners can be observed in the frontal section compared to the sagittal section resulting from the different radii of curvatures. Consequently a convexity and a concavity designed as per the invention allow a greater inclination in the dorsoventral direction of the sliding partners than in laterolateral direction.

In order to come into contact with each other the areas of the edges A and B have to be inclined towards each other. For this the dorsal and ventral parts of the edges A and B have to have a greater aperture angle for gap closure than the lateral parts of the edges A and B. The respective inclination of the edges A and B serves for the purpose of closing the gap. By itself it has no influence on the maximal mobility of the sliding partners towards each other. The different inclinations of the edges A and B have a flowing transition.

The show a schematic sagittal view of a two part intervertebral disc prosthesis as per the invention with an edge A of the upper sliding partner . The upper sliding partner and the lower sliding partner can be seen. The prosthesis is again shown in zero position with a dorsal or a ventral gap closure shown in . Here the aperture angle correspondingly increased as the gap has closed on the opposite side of the concave convex part of the sliding areas . A gap closure results between the edges A and B at terminal inclination of all sliding partners and so that an optimal distribution of the pressure is guaranteed.

In a median frontal view of the prosthesis is shown with comprising the upper sliding partner and the lower sliding partner Preferably both sliding partners comprise the same material or they are identically coated. They may also comprise different material or be differently coated. Material and coatings are preferably chosen in a way that the abrasion of the sliding partners is minimized low friction principle .

In a two part prosthesis in a central sagittal view is shown. For a detailed description refer to where a sagittal view of a three two part prosthesis with upper sliding partner and lower sliding partner is also depicted without inclination of the sliding partners to each other as well as with terminal dorsal or ventral inclination. This view is depicted here for the purpose of completeness.

The each show a top view onto alternative designs of the circumference of upper and lower sliding partner . The small letters indicate the orientation with respect to the dorsoventral alignment of the plates for the lumbar spine d dorsal v ventral which is however reversed for the cervical spine v dorsal d ventral .

The and show alternative arrangements of the anchoring teeth on the outside of the upper and lower sliding partners . The orientation of the sliding partners with respect to the dorsoventral orientation is again indicated by the small letters d dorsal v ventral . Dorsally in the middle no anchoring teeth are intended because this results on one hand in sparing the vertebral bodies and on the other hand facilitates the implantation. For the cervical spine the reversed orientation is also without middle dorsal anchoring teeth .

The designs depicted in the illustrations of the intervertebral disc prostheses as per the invention for a two part are exemplary and not limiting. Once given the above disclosure many other features modifications and improvements will become apparent to the skilled artisan. Such other features modifications and improvements are therefore considered to be part of this invention.

