---

title: Triterpenes for modulating gene expression and cell membrane, and as antiprotozoal agents
abstract: This invention provides methods, processes, compounds and compositions for modulating the gene expression or secretion of adhesion proteins, angiopoietins or their receptors to cure diseases, for anti-angiogenesis and for treating parasites, wherein the adhesion proteins or receptors comprise fibronectin, integrins family, myosin, vitronectin, collagen, laminin, glycosylation cell surface proteins, polyglycans, cadherin, heparin, tenascin, CD 54 , CAM, elastin and FAK; wherein the angiopoietins comprise angiopoietin 1, angiopoietin 2, angiopoietin 3, angiopoietin 4, angiopoietin 5, angiopoietin 6, angiopoietin 7, angiopoietin-like 1, angiopoietin-like 2, angiopoietin-like 3, angiopoietin-like 4, angiopoietin-like 5, angiopoietin-like 6, and angiopoietin-like 7; wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer, leukocyte cancer, liver cancer, ovarian cancer, bladder cancer, prostate cancer, skin cancer, bone cancer, brain cancer, leukemia cancer, lung cancer, colon cancer, CNS cancer, melanoma cancer, renal cancer, cervical cancer, esophageal cancer, testicular cancer, spleenic cancer, kidney cancer, lymphatic cancer, pancreas cancer, stomach cancer and thyroid cancer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08586719&OS=08586719&RS=08586719
owner: Pacific Arrow Limited
number: 08586719
owner_city: 
owner_country: CN
publication_date: 20100813
---
This application is a Continuation in part of International App l No. PCT US2009 034115 filed Feb. 13 2009 which claims benefit of U.S. Ser. No. 61 038 277 filed Mar. 20 2008 U.S. Ser. No. 61 054 308 filed May 19 2008 and is a Continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 12 344 682 filed Dec. 29 2008 and International App l No. PCT US2008 002086 filed Feb. 15 2008 which is a continuation in part of International App l No. PCT US2007 077273 filed Aug. 30 2007 which claims benefit of U.S. Ser. No. 60 890 380 filed on Feb. 16 2007 U.S. Ser. No. 60 947 705 filed on Jul. 3 2007 and is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 11 683 198 filed on Mar. 7 2007 which claims benefit of U.S. Ser. Nos. 60 795 417 filed on Apr. 27 2006 60 841 727 filed on Sep. 1 2006 60 890 380 filed on Feb. 16 2007 and is a continuation in part of International Application No. PCT US2006 016158 filed Apr. 27 2006 which claims benefit of U.S. Ser. Nos. 60 675 282 filed Apr. 27 2005 and U.S. Ser. No. 60 675 284 filed Apr. 27 2005 and is a continuation in part of the following applications 1 U.S. Ser. No. 11 289 142 filed Nov. 28 2005 2 U.S. Ser. No. 11 267 523 filed Nov. 4 2005 3 International Application No. PCT US05 31900 filed Sep. 7 2005 which claims the benefit of U.S. Ser. Nos. 60 617 379 filed Oct. 8 2004 60 613 811 filed Sep. 27 2004 and 60 607 858 filed Sep. 7 2004 4 U.S. Ser. No. 11 131 551 filed May 17 2005 and 5 U.S. Ser. No. 11 117 760 filed Apr. 27 2005. This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. Nos. 12 192 112 filed Aug. 20 2008 12 392 795 filed Feb. 25 2009 12 541 713 filed Aug. 14 2009 and 12 714 598 filed Mar. 1 2010. The contents of these preceding applications are hereby incorporated in their entireties by reference into this application.

This invention provides methods and compositions for reducing the adhesion protein in cell and blocks the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibits the growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the cancers comprise cancer of breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid wherein the adhesion proteins or receptors comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK.

The composition from for anti leishmanial is a United Nation funding project. This invention provides methods for inhibiting cancer metastasis or growth wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer. wherein the method is using the extract composition and compounds from

This invention provides methods of using the extract composition and compounds from and for reducing expression or secretion of adhesion proteins for inhibiting cancer metastasis wherein the cancers comprise cancers of breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid.

This invention provides a method for modulating the adhesion of cancer cells and blocking their migration metastasis or inhibiting the growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the adhesion proteins and their receptors comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK.

This invention provides a method of treating protozoal infections including leishmaniases amoebiasis trypanosomiasis toxoplasmosis and malaria infection.

This invention provides methods and compositions for modulating gene expression to cure diseases or reduce the syndrome of diseases wherein the modulating comprises positive and negative regulating. In an embodiment the method comprises inhibiting gene expression. In an embodiment the method comprises stimulating gene expression.

This invention provides methods and compositions for inhibiting the migration metastasis or growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the methods comprise affecting the gene expression wherein the method comprises affecting adhesion proteins or their receptors reducing adhesion proteins or inhibiting the expression or secretion of adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK.

This invention provides methods and compositions for inhibiting the migration metastasis or growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the methods comprise affecting the gene expression wherein the method comprises stimulating gene expression.

This invention provides a method for altering the characteristics of cancer cell membranes resulting in blocking the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibiting the growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the method comprises reducing adhesion proteins or their receptors wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK.

This invention provides methods processes compounds and compositions of reducing expression or secretion of adhesion proteins of cells wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment methods comprise inhibiting gene expression. In an embodiment this invention provides a method of reducing the secretion of fibronectin. In an embodiment the method can block the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibit the growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the cancers comprise breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid cancer. In an embodiment the method comprises contacting the cell with compound selected from Mb1 Mb2 Mb2.1 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13 ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 Ba17 Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof and Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application.

This invention provides a method of altering the characteristics of cancer cell membranes wherein the method comprises altering the secretion of adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment the methods processes compounds and compositions comprise blocking suppressing or inhibiting the expression or secretion of adhesion protein wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment the methods processes compounds and compositions is interacting with adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment the methods processes compounds or compositions can block the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibit the growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the cancers comprise cancers of breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid. In an embodiment the method comprises contacting the cell with compound selected from Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13 ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 Ba17 Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof and Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application.

The adhesion proteins help cancer cell adhesion invasion or metastasis wherein the cancers comprise ovarian cancer. Reducing the adhesion proteins will reduce the metastasis of cancers. Fibronectin is one of the key factors in the biology of epithelial ovarian cancers. Reduction of fibronectin will inhibit the metastasis of cancer cells.

This invention provides a method and composition for inhibiting the expression or secretion of adhesion proteins comprising fibronectin in order to cure diseases wherein the diseases comprise inhibiting cancer growth wherein the cancers comprise breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid cancer. In an embodiment the method comprises contacting the cell with compound selected from Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13 ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E ACH Mb5 ACH Mb13 Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 Ba17 Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof and Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application.

This invention provides a use of compound or a composition for manufacture of medicament for inhibiting the growth migration metastasis of cancer or altering the characteristics of membranes of cancer cell wherein the characteristics comprise adhesion of proteins wherein comprising the secretion of proteins or the adhesion of cells wherein the characteristics comprise adhesion ability wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK wherein the cancers comprise cancers of breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid wherein the method comprises administering to the subject or contacting the cells with the extract compositions saponins or compounds from and for inhibiting cancer metastasis wherein the cancers comprise cancers of breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid cancers wherein extracts compositions saponins or compounds are prepared from the husks branches stems leaves kernels roots barks fruit seeds or seed shells of the herb or plant.

The present invention provides vaccines for cancer immunotherapy. The vaccines comprise extract compositions compounds and saponins from Xanthoceras Sorbifolia Harpullia and or . In embodiment the compounds can be obtained from synthesis semi synthesis or modification. The method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of vaccine for enhancing the immune response. The vaccines comprise saponins isolated from and or

The present invention provides adjuvant compositions for cancer curing. The adjuvant compositions comprise extract compositions compounds and saponins from and or . The method comprises administering to the subject an effective amount of the above adjuvant compositions for enhancing the immune response. The use of vaccine compositions comprise inhibiting cancer metastasis wherein the cancers comprise breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal cervix esophagus testis spleen kidney lymph pancreas stomach and thyroid cancers.

The present invention provides a use of compound for manufacture of medicament or methods for making a vaccine wherein the vaccine comprises compounds or saponins from and or wherein the vaccine can be used for inhibiting cancer growth wherein the vaccine is having immune adjuvant activity wherein the saponins comprise Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof. In an embodiment the saponin may be selected from formulas 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound Z1 to Z13 in the application. In an embodiment the saponin s comprise Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13. In an embodiment the compound comprises a triterpene backbone two angeloyl groups and sugar moiety. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E ACH Mb5 and ACH Mb12. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 and Ba17. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof. This invention provides a method of treating protozoal infections. In an embodiment this invention provides a method for treating parasites by using the above compounds wherein the method comprises inhibiting leishmaniases amoebiasis trypanosomiasis toxoplasmosis or malaria wherein the method comprises contacting cells with an effective amount of an isolated purified or synthesized compound or its salt or ester thereof selected from the above compounds.

This invention provides a use of compound for manufacture of medicament or a method for pharmaceutical composition useful for inducing an immune response to an antigen in an individual comprising a saponin composition from or or synthesis. The present invention provide methods for enhancing an immune response to an antigen in an individual comprising administering an effective amount of saponins compositions from or comprising Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof or the saponin may be selected from formulas 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound Z1 to Z13 in the application. In an embodiment the saponin comprise Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application. In an embodiment the composition s are selected from ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E ACH Mb5 and ACH Mb12. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 Ba17.

This invention provides methods or a use of compound for manufacture of medicament for modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics enhancing an immune response providing adjuvant activities or providing vaccine activities inhibiting cancer metastasis or growth wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer In an embodiment the method comprises modulating the phosphatidylinositol signaling system and regulating the gene expression of RGS4 LEPR ICFBP3 ANGPT2 GPNMB NUPR1 or LOC 100126784. The compounds can be purified from natural resource comprising or or synthesized. The compounds comprise the following 

 Our purification methods and biological assays including the MTT assay in International Application No. PCT US05 31900 filed Sep. 7 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 11 289 142 filed Nov. 28 2005 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 131 551 filed May 17 2005 and PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference 

The anti cancer activity of Mb s compounds with ES2 cell the IC50 of Mb1 is 8 ug ml Mb2 is ml Mb3 is 8 ug ml Mb4 is 15 ug ml Mb5 is 6.5 ug ml and Mb6 is 10 ug ml Mb7 is 12 ug ml Mb8 is 20 ug ml Mb9 is 18 ug ml Mb12 is 10 ug ml.

The anti cancer activity of ACH s compounds with ES2 cell the IC50 of ACH Z4 is 40 ug ml ACH Y3 is 20 ug ml ACH Y10 is 20 ug ml ACH Y2 is 35 ug ml ACH Y8 is 35 ug ml ACH Y7 is 65 ug ml ACH Y0 is 20 ug ml ACH X is 40 ug ml ACH E is 60 ug ml

The anti cancer activity of Ba compounds with ES2 cell Ba1 is 5 ug ml Ba2 is 5 ug ml Ba3 is 8 ug ml Ba 5 is 16 ug ml Ba7 is 11 ug ml Ba8 is 20 ug ml Ba9 is 12 ug ml Ba17 is 5 ug ml.

The anti cancer activity of Xanifolia Y with cells the IC50 of Y on bladder TB9 cells is 5 ug ml IC50 of Y on lung H460 cells is 7.5 ug ml 1050 of Y on HeLa cells is 20 ug ml IC50 of Y on skin cells is 12 ug ml IC50 of Y on ES2 ovarian cells is 5 ug ml IC50 of pure Y on Mouth KB cells is 6 ug ml 

This invention provides a method or composition for reducing the expression and secretion of adhesion proteins to cure diseases wherein the diseases comprise cancer growth leg swelling symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency peripheral edema lipemic chronic venous disease varicose vein disease varicose syndrome venous stasis expectorant peripheral vascular disorders cerebro organic convulsion cerebral circulation disorder cerebral edema psychoses dysmenorrheal hemorrhoids episiotomies peripheral edema formation or postoperative swelling leg pain for pruritis lower leg volume symptoms of pain thrombosis thromophlebitis or for preventing gastric ulcers spasms comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the composition of this invention.

In an embodiment the method comprises interacting with adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment this invention provides a method of reducing the secretion of fibronectin.

In an embodiment the method comprises reducing the adhesion ability of adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK.

In an embodiment the method comprises modulating the expression or secretion of adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment the method comprises blocking the secretion of adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin. In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with an effective amount of the compound selected from formulas in this application.

In an embodiment this invention provides a method and composition for modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition. In an embodiment this invention provides a method of treating protozoal infections including leishmaniases amoebiasis trypanosomiasis toxoplasmosis and malaria infections.

This invention provides a use of compound for manufacture of medicament a method and a composition for altering the characteristics of adhesion proteins to cure diseases wherein the characteristics comprising adhesion ability wherein the method comprises reducing the secretion of fibronectin wherein the diseases comprise cancer growth leg swelling symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency peripheral edema lipemic chronic venous disease varicose vein disease varicose syndrome venous stasis expectorant peripheral vascular disorders cerebro organic convulsion cerebral circulation disorder cerebral edema psychoses dysmenorrheal hemorrhoids episiotomies peripheral edema formation or postoperative swelling symptoms of leg pain pruritis lower leg volume symptoms of pain thrombosis thromophlebitis for preventing gastric ulcers antispasmotic comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the composition of this invention wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment the method is administering contacting an effective amount in a subject with the compound selected from formulas in this application.

This invention provides a process and method for administration of the composition wherein administration is by intravenous injection intravenous drip intraperitoneal injection or oral administration wherein administration is by intravenous drip 0.05 0.2 mg kg compound dissolved in 250 ml of 10 glucose solution or in 250 ml of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous injection 0.05 0.2 mg kg day compound dissolved in 10 20 ml of 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous drip 0.1 0.2 mg kg day compound dissolved in 250 ml of 10 glucose solution or in 250 ml of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous injection 0.1 0.2 mg kg day compound dissolved in 10 20 ml of 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intraperitoneal injection I.P. 2.5 mg kg day compound dissolved in 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or by oral administration wherein the dosage in mammal is 1 10 mg Kg 10 30 mg Kg 30 60 mg Kg or 60 90 mg Kg compound or by intravenous injection or intravenous drip wherein the dosage in mammal is 0.01 0.1 mg Kg 0.1 0.2 mg Kg 0.2 0.4 mg Kg or 0.4 0.6 mg Kg compound or by intraperitoneal injection I.P. wherein the dosage in mammal is 1 3 mg Kg 3 5 mg Kg 4 6 mg Kg or 6 10 mg Kg compound.

The methods and uses of an isolated purified or synthesized compound or its salt ester metabolite or derivative thereof having the formula of 

In an embodiment the method is administering contacting the compounds wherein the compound is selected from the following 

In an embodiment the method is administering contacting the compound wherein the compound is selected from the following 

In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with the compound wherein the compound is isolated purified or synthesized having a structure selected from following formulae 

In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with compound in this application comprising Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof. In an embodiment the compounds may be selected from formulas 1A 1 B 1 C 1 D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the compound comprises a triterpene backbone two angeloyl groups and sugar moiety. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound Z1 to Z13 in the application. In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with compound comprising of a triterpene wherein the carbon position 21 21 has an unsaturated group and sugar moieties at carbon 3.

In an embodiment methods and compounds of this application reduce the ability of bacteria in colonization and tropism of cells.

In an embodiment methods and compounds of this application reduce the adhesive ability of cells or viruses in order to inhibit viruses binding to host cells wherein the viruses comprise HIV.

This invention provides a use of compound for manufacture of medicament a method and a composition for modulating adhesion or anti angiogenesis of cancer tumor antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition wherein the modulating adhesion of cancer cell comprising modulating the secretion or expression of adhesion protein wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK wherein the modulating comprises reducing inhibiting and stimulating wherein modulating adhesion protein comprises reducing the fibronectin for inhibiting the metastasis or growth of cancer cells wherein the cancer is selected from breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer wherein modulating adhesion of cancer cells comprises modulating the secretion or expression of adhesion protein wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK wherein modulating comprises reducing inhibiting and stimulating wherein modulating angiogenesis comprises inhibiting and stimulating angiopoietin wherein comprising angiopoietin 1 angiopoietin 2 angiopoietin 3 angiopoietin 4 angiopoietin 5 angiopoietin 6 and angiopoietin 7 wherein the angiopoietin comprising angiopoietin like 1 angiopoietin like 2 angiopoietin like 3 angiopoietin like 4 angiopoietin like 5 angiopoietin like 6 and angiopoietin like 7 wherein the modulating comprises positive and negative regulating wherein modulating angiopoietin comprises stimulating angiopoietin 2 in order to inhibit angiogenesis wherein modulating angiopoietin comprises inhibiting angiopoietin 1 in order to inhibit angiogenesis wherein modulating angiopoietin comprises inhibiting angiopoietin like 1 wherein modulating angiopoietin comprises inhibiting angiopoietin like 4 wherein the antiparasitics comprise inhibiting leishmaniases amoebiasis trypanosomiasis toxoplasmosis or malaria wherein the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with the compound in this application comprising Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof. In an embodiment the compound may be selected from formulas 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the compound comprises a triterpene backbone two angeloyl groups and sugar moiety. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound Z1 to Z13 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E ACH Mb5 and ACHMb12. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 and Ba17. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13.

In an embodiment the methods and compositions of this application can be used for manufacturing an adjuvant vaccine wherein the methods and compositions are used for manufacturing an adjuvant vaccine in a subject wherein the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with the compound in this application comprising Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof. In an embodiment the compound may be selected from formulas 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the compound comprises a triterpene backbone two angeloyl groups and sugar moiety. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound Z1 to Z13 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E ACH Mb5 and ACH Mb12. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 and Ba17. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13. In an embodiment this application provides an adjuvant composition comprising a saponin or compound selecting from above wherein the composition is comprised of an immunostimulatory oligonucleotide.

In an embodiment the methods and compositions of this application can be used for manufacture of medicament for vaccine or antiviral agent for Enterovirus comprising EV71 wherein the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with compounds selected in this application comprising Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13.

The composition comprises bioactive compounds from natural plants or synthesis. The majority of the plants are from the Sapindaceae family which has 140 150 genera with 1400 2000 species. The program is based on our purification methods and biological assays including the MTT assay See International Application No. PCT US05 31900 filed Sep. 7 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 11 289 142 filed Nov. 28 2005 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 131 551 filed May 17 2005 and PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. The details of Analysis of gene expression of ES2 cells after Y treatment by Microarray Data Analysis Methods and Western blot in PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference

This invention provides a composition comprising an effective amount of triterpenoidal saponins named as Xanifolia Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 and Y0 or their salt or their derivatives. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 and Ba17 or their salt or their derivatives. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Mb1 Mb2 Mb3 Mb4 Mb5 Mb6 Mb7 Mb8 Mb9 Mb10 Mb11 Mb12 and Mb13 or their salt or their derivatives for modulating expression or secretion of adhesion proteins reducing expression or secretion of adhesion proteins or reducing the expression or secretion of fibronectin for treating chronic venous insufficiency peripheral edema antilipemic chronic venous disease varicose vein disease varicose syndrome venous stasis expectorant peripheral vascular disorders cerebro organic convulsion cerebral circulation disorder cerebral edema psychoses dysmenorrheal hemorrhoids episiotomies peripheral edema formation or postoperative swelling for reducing symptoms of pain for reducing symptoms of stomach pain for reducing symptoms of leg pain for treating pruritis lower leg volume thrombosis thromophlebitis for treating rheumatism for preventing gastric ulcers antispasmotic blocking the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibiting tumor growth. In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cell with compounds in this application comprising Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof. In an embodiment the compound may be selected from formulas 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the compound comprises a triterpene backbone two angeloyl groups and sugar moiety. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound Z1 to Z13 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E ACH Mb5 and ACH Mb12. The compounds of this invention can be isolated from natural sources or synthesized.

See experiments results in this application and see PCT US05 31900 filed Sep. 7 2006 U.S. Ser. No. 10 906 303 filed Feb. 14 2005 International Application No. PCT US04 43465 filed Dec. 23 2004 International Application No. PCT US04 33359 filed Oct. 8 2004 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 131 551 filed May 17 2005 PCT US2007 077273 filed Aug. 30 2007 PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 US61 038 277 filed Mar. 20 2008 US61 054 308 filed May 19 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

15 mg Xanifolia Y was dissolved in 1 ml of Methanol. 1 ml of 2N HCl was then added. The mixture was refluxed in 80 C. water bath for 5 hours. The solution was then neutralized by adding 2 ml of 1N NaOH to final pH 4 6 . The aglycone was then extracted with ethylacetate 3 ml 2. The extracts were collected and pooled. Further isolation of aglycone ACH Y was achieved by HPLC with isocratic elution of 80 100 acetonitrile. Repeat the experiment with compound Z4 Y10 Y2 Y8 Y7 Y0 X and ESCIN were obtained compounds ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E ACH Mb12 ACH Mb5.

In mild conditions the saponin will be partially hydrolyzed to a mixture of products. The products can be separated by HPLC. Also specific partial hydrolysis can be achieved with enzymes. The glucosidase is a good enzyme for cleaving the glucose from saponins.

20 mg of Xanifolia Y was dissolved in 0.5 ml of 1M NaOH. The solution was incubated in 80 C. water bath for 4 hours. It was cooled to room temperature before neutralized with 0.5 ml 1 N HCl adjust pH to about 3 . The mixture was extracted with 2 ml 1 butanol 3 times. The butanol fractions were collected and lyophilized. The hydrolyzed saponin with further purified with HPLC in a C 18 column eluted with 25 acetonitrile.

This invention provides a use of compound for manufacture of medicament or a method of modulating adhesion proteins or their receptors reducing the adhesive ability of the cancer cells wherein the modulating comprises positive or negative regulating. In an embodiment the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment the method comprises reducing the secretion of fibronectin. This invention provides a method of blocking the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibiting cancer cell growth or inhibiting leishmaniases modulating adhesion or inhibiting angiogenesis of cancer tumor antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition comprising administering an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a composition comprises the molecular formula or compound in this invention. The cancers comprise comprise breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphhatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer. The compounds of this invention can be isolated from natural sources or synthesized. In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting a cell with the compounds wherein the compound is selected from the following 

This invention provides uses of a compound for manufacture of medicament selected from formula 1B for modulating regulating or interacting with the adhesion protein wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment this invention provides a method of reducing the expression or secretion of fibronectin modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics enhancing an immune response providing adjuvant activities or providing vaccine activities inhibiting cancer metastasis or growth using the compounds selected for the following 

In an embodiment R1 comprises a sugar moiety wherein substituted with two groups selecting from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R1 comprises a sugar moiety wherein substituted with at least one group selecting from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R2 comprises a sugar moiety wherein at least one group is selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl alkyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R2 comprises a sugar moiety or a side chain wherein at least two groups are selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl alkyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R4 comprises CHOR6 or COOR6 wherein R6 is a sugar moiety which comprises at least one group selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R4 comprises CHOR6 or COOR6 wherein R6 is a sugar moiety which comprises at least two groups selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substitutedalkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R4 comprises CHOR6 or COOR6 wherein R6 is a sugar moiety which comprises at least two groups selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl and senecioyl. In an embodiment R4 comprises CHOR6 or COOR6 of formula 1B at least two of R1 R2 and R6 comprise the group selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R4 comprises CHOR6 or COOR6 of formula 1B wherein at least two of R1 R2 and R6 comprise angeloyl benzoyl alkenoyl or a derivative thereof. In an embodiment R4 is a side chain comprising CHOCOCH CHCOO alkyl CHOH COOH angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl alkyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic or heteroraryl alkanoyl substituted phenyl alkenoyl substituted phenyl or a derivative thereof. In a further embodiment R5 comprises a sugar moiety wherein the sugar moiety comprises one or more sugar of but is not limited to glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose or alduronic acid glucuronic acid galacturonic acid or derivatives thereof or the combination thereof. In an embodiment R5 comprises a sugar moiety or a group capable of performing the function of the sugar moiety. In an embodiment the R5 represents H. In an embodiment R4 represents H OH or CH3. In an embodiment positions C23 C24 C25 C26 C29 and C30 of the compound independently comprise CH CHOH CHO COOH COOa lkyl COO aryl COO heterocyclic COO heteroaryl CHOaryl CHO heterocyclic CHO heteroaryl alkyls group acetyl group or derivatives thereof particular CH3. In an embodiment R1 and R2 independently comprise an angeloyl group. In an embodiment R1 is a sugar moiety or a side chain which comprises two angeloyl groups. In an embodiment R1 and R2 independently comprise a benzoyl group. In an embodiment R1 is a sugar moiety which is substituted with two benzoyl groups. In an embodiment Rrepresents H or OH. In an embodiment R8 may be OH. In an embodiment the O at C21 22 may be replaced by NH. In an embodiment this invention provides a method of reducing the secretion of fibronectin wherein the medicament is for inhibiting tumor or cancer cell growth and for treating cancer wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer. Substitution deletion and or addition of any group in the above described compounds by other group s will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art based on the teachings of this application. In a further embodiment the substitution deletion and or addition of the group s in the compound of the invention does not substantially affect the biological function of the compound.

This invention provides uses methods processes compounds and compositions for modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics enhancing an immune response providing adjuvant activities or providing vaccine activities inhibiting cancer metastasis or growth reducing adhesion protein of cells wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment methods comprise inhibiting the gene expression. In an embodiment this invention provides a method of reducing the expression or secretion of fibronectin. In an embodiment the method can block the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibit the growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostate cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer In an embodiment the compounds are anti angiogenic inhibit cancer cell metastasis and inhibit cancer growth. In an embodiment the compounds promote angiopoietin 2. In an embodiment the compound is selected from the following formulas 1E . In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with the compounds wherein the compound is selected from the formula 1E 

R5 is a hydrogen heterocyclic or sugar moiety ies wherein the sugar moiety ies is are selected from a group consisting of glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose alduronic acid glucuronic acid galacturonic acid and derivatives or combination thereof wherein R9 R10 R11 R12 R13 R14 R15 are independently attached a group selecting from CH CHOH CHO COOH COO alkyl COO aryl COO heterocyclic COO heteroaryl CHOaryl CHO heterocyclic CHO heteroaryl alkyls group hydroxyl acetyl group particularly CH3 or wherein R9 R10 R11 R12 R13 R14 R15 are independently attached a CH3 wherein R4 and R16 form a divalent radical of formula CH2O CH OR7 O or COOR7 wherein R7 is hydrogen alkyl angeloyl tigloyl senecioyl dibenzoyl benzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and derivatives thereof wherein at least two of R1 R2 and R6 individually comprises a group selected from O angeloyl O tigloyl O senecioyl O dibenzoyl O benzoyl O alkanoyl O alkenoyl O benzoyl alkyl substituted O alkanoyl O aryl O acyl O heterocylic O heteroraryl and derivatives thereof or at least one of R1 R2 and R4 is a sugar moiety substituted with at least two groups selected from a group consisting of angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof or wherein R4 is CHR6 wherein R1 and R2 independently consists an O angeloyl group or at least two of R1 R2 and R6 are O angeloyl or at least one of R1 R2 or R6 is a sugar moiety with two O angeloyls wherein R5 is are the sugar moiety ies selected from the following sugars and alduronic acids glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose glucuronic acid galacturonic acid or their derivatives thereof or the combination thereof wherein the sugar preferably comprises glucuronic acid arabinose and galactose. In an embodiment wherein R5 is are sugar moiety ies selected from a group consisting of glucose galactose arabinose alduronic acid glucuronic acid galacturonic acid and a derivative or combination thereof. In an embodiment wherein R5 is 3 O L rhamnopyranosyl 1 2 L rhamnopyranosyl 1 2 D galactopyranosyl 1 3 D galactopyranosyl 1 2 D glucuronopyranosyl . In an embodiment wherein the carbon ring 3 comprises a double bond when R16 is H wherein the double bond in carbon ring 3 is reduced when R4 and R16 form a divalent radical. In an embodiment the compound has no sugar moiety. In an embodiment the compound has at least 1 sugar moiety ies . In an embodiment the compound has at least 2 sugar moiety ies . In an embodiment the compound has at least 3 sugar moieties. In an embodiment the compound has at least 4 sugar moieties. In an embodiment the compound has at least 5 sugar moieties. In an embodiment the number of sugar moiety ies at R5 is are 1 2 3 4 or 5. In an embodiment the sugar moieties attach at R5 or other side bonds. In an embodiment the sugar moiety may be in the form of alduronic acid. In an embodiment the compound is attached an acid.

In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with the compounds wherein the compound is selected from the formula 1F 

R5 is a hydrogen or sugar moiety ies wherein the sugar moiety ies is are selected from a group consisting of glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose alduronic acid glucuronic acid galacturonic acid and derivatives or combination thereof wherein R9 R10 R11 R12 R13 R14 R15 are independently attached a group selecting from CH CHOH CHO COOH COO alkyl COO aryl COO heterocyclic COO heteroaryl CHOaryl CHO heterocyclic CHO heteroaryl alkyls group hydroxyl acetyl group or wherein R9 R10 R11 R12 R13 R14 R15 are independently attached a CH wherein at least two of R1 R2 and R4 are compriseing a group selected from O angeloyl O tigloyl O senecioyl O dibenzoyl O benzoyl O alkanoyl O alkenoyl O benzoyl alkyl substituted O alkanoyl O aryl O acyl O heterocylic O heteroraryl and derivatives thereof or at least one of R1 R2 and R4 is a sugar moiety substituted with at least two groups selected from a group consisting of angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl and a derivative thereof or wherein R4 R1 and R2 independently consists an O angeloyl group or at least two of R1 R2 and R4 are O angeloyl or at least one of R1 R2 or R4 is a sugar moiety with two O angeloyls wherein R5 is are the sugar moiety ies selected from the following sugars and alduronic acids glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose glucuronic acid galacturonic acid or their derivatives thereof or the combination thereof wherein the sugar preferably comprises glucuronic acid arabinose and galactose. In an embodiment wherein R5 is are sugar moiety ies selected from a group consisting of glucose galactose arabinose alduronic acid glucuronic acid galacturonic acid and a derivative or combination thereof In an embodiment wherein R5 is 3 O L rhamnopyranosyl 1 2 L rhamnopyranosyl 1 2 D galactopyranosyl 1 3 D galactopyranosyl 1 2 D glucuronopyranosyl

In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with the compounds of following 

In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with the compounds of following 

In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with the compounds of following 

R3 is H or OH R5 is H or OH particularly OH wherein R6 R7 R8 R9 R10 R11 R12 are independently attached a group selecting from CH CHOH CHO COOH COO alkyl COO aryl COO heterocyclic COO heteroaryl CHOaryl CHO heterocyclic CHO heteroaryl alkyls group hydroxyl acetyl group particularly CH R13 is COOH or COO alkyl 

In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with the compounds of following 

A sugar moiety is a segment of a molecule comprising one or more sugar groups. Substitution deletion and or addition of any group in the above described compounds will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art based on the teaching of this application. In a further embodiment the substitution deletion and or addition of the group s in the compound of the invention does not substantially affect the biological function of the compound.

This invention provides a method or a use of compound for manufacture of medicament for inhibiting venous insufficiency particularly hemorrhoids or inhibiting leg swelling or peripheral edema antilipemic for treating chronic venous disease varicose vein disease varicose syndrome venous stasis expectorant peripheral vascular disorders cerebro organic convulsion cerebral circulation disorder cerebral edema psychoses dysmenorrheal hemorrhoids episiotomies hamonhoids peripheral edema formation or postoperative swelling for reducing symptoms of pain for reducing symptoms of stomach pain for reducing symptoms of leg pain for treating pruritis lower leg volume thrombosis thromophlebitis for preventing gastric ulcers antispasmotic comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the composition of any one of the above compounds or a compound comprises a triterpene which comprises any two of angeloyl tigloyl senecioyl preferably two angeloyl groups and a sugar moiety glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose alduronic acid glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid or a derivative thereof or combinations thereof preferably selected from glucuronic acid galacturonic acid glucose galactose and arabinose. The method regulates or interacts with adhesion protein wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK. In an embodiment the method comprises regulating the secretion of fibronectin. In an embodiment the method comprises inhibiting leishmaniases modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition. In an embodiment antiparasitics comprise inhibiting leishmaniases amoebiasis trypanosomiasis toxoplasmosis or malaria.

This invention provides a method for inhibiting the growth migration metastasis of cancer by altering the characteristics of membranes of cancer cell wherein the method comprises reducing adhesion protein wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK wherein the method comprises inhibiting the secretion of fibronectin wherein the methods comprises administering to a subject in need thereof an appropriate amount of triterpenoidal saponins comprising two or more angeloyl groups or a compound comprising a triterpene which comprises of any two of angeloyl tigloyl senecioyl perferably two angeloyl groups and a sugar moiety glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose alduronic acid glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid or a derivative thereof or combinations thereof preferably selected from glucuronic acid galacturonic acid glucose galactose and arabinose. This invention provides a composition comprising an effective amount of the compound of any one of compound selected from the above formula or a salt ester metabolite or derivative thereof as a medicament for reducing expression and secretion of adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK for inhibiting the growth migration metastasis of cancer wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer.

This invention also provides a composition comprising the above described compounds or their derivatives for reducing adhesion protein wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK wherein comprising inhibiting the secretion of fibronectin wherein the composition is used for treating venous insufficiency particularly hemorrhoids or inhibiting leg swelling or peripheral edema lipemic chronic venous disease varicose vein disease varicose syndrome venous stasis Expectorant peripheral vascular disorders cerebro organic convulsion cerebral circulation disorder cerebral edema psychoses dysmenorrheal episiotomies hemonhoids peripheral edema formation or postoperative swelling for reducing symptoms of pain for reducing symptoms of stomach pain for reducing symptoms of leg pain for treating pruritis lower leg volume thrombosis thromophlebitis for preventing gastric ulcers antispasmotic inhibiting leishmaniases for modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition. In an embodiment of the above the uses of compositions comprising any one of triterpenoid saponins with the following formula 

This invention also provides a composition for regulating or reducing adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family myosin vitronectin collagen laminin glycosylation cell surface proteins polyglycans cadherin heparin tenascin CD 54 CAM elastin and FAK inhibiting venous insufficiency particularly hemorrhoids or inhibition of leg swelling or inhibiting cancer growth inhibiting leishmaniases modulating adhesion of cancer cells modulating angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition comprising any of compounds selected from the following compounds A to X and A1 to X1 incorporated here from PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT 

In an embodiment a triterpene comprising the following structure has activities of reducing adhesion proteins to block the migration inhibiting metastasis of cancer cells inhibiting growth of cancers inhibiting leishmaniases modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition.

In an embodiment the compound is a triterpenoid saponin comprising at least two angeloyl groups tigloyl groups senecioyl groups or acetyl group or their combinations preferably with at least two angeloyl groups.

In an embodiment at least two groups are selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl alkanoyl substituted phenyl alkenoyl substituted phenyl alkenylcarbonyl or substituted with an C2 9 acid or derivative thereof.

In an embodiment at least one of the side bonds of the compound comprises a sugar moiety comprising two compounds selected from angeloyl acetyl tigloyl senecioyl benzoyl dibenzoyl alkanoyl alkenoyl benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl aryl acyl heterocylic heteroraryl alkanoyl substituted phenyl alkenoyl substituted phenyl alkenylcarbonyl or substituted with an C2 9 acid or derivative thereof.

In an embodiment the compound comprises a sugar moiety. In a further embodiment the sugar moiety comprises glucose galactose or arabinose or combination thereof.

In a further embodiment the sugar moiety comprises at least one sugar or glucose or galactose or rhamnose or arabinose or xylose or alduronic acid or glucuronic acid or galacturonic acid or their derivative thereof or the combinations thereof.

In a further embodiment the sugar moiety comprises one or more sugars selected from but is not limited to glucose galactose rhamnose arabinose xylose fucose allose altrose gulose idose lyxose mannose psicose ribose sorbose tagatose talose fructose alduronic acid glucuronic acid galacturonic acid or derivatives thereof or combinations thereof.

A composition comprises an effective amount of compound selected from the above formula or a salt ester metabolite or derivative thereof as a medicament for regulating or reducing adhesion protein blocking the migration metastasis of cancer cells inhibiting tumor or cancer cell growth and for treating cancer wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer.

In a further embodiment a compound or sapongenin comprising the structure d or e has anti cancer or virus inhibiting activities.

A composition for regulating or reducing adhesion proteins blocking the migration or metastasis of cancer cells treating cancers or inhibiting viruses comprises a compound wherein the compound is a triterpene which comprises at least two side chains which comprise angeloyl groups wherein the side chains are at adjacent carbon in trans position. In an embodiment the side chains are at alternate carbon in cis position. In an embodiment the side chains are at alternate carbon in trans position. In an embodiment the side chains are attached to an acyl. In an embodiment the side chains are attached to an unsaturated group.

In an embodiment the side chains are in non adjacent carbon cis or trans position. In an embodiment the side chains comprise a functional group capable of performing the function of angeloyl group.

The above compounds can be used for regulating or reducing adhesion proteins blocking the migration or metastasis of cancer cells inhibiting tumor cell growth or reducing leg swelling symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency peripheral edema antilipemic chronic venous disease varicose vein disease varicose syndrome venous stasis expectorant peripheral vascular disorders by administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the above described compounds.

This invention provides a method for inhibiting tumor cell growth regulating cell growth reducing inflammation inhibiting leishmaniases modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the compound which comprises any of the above structures to said subject. The cancers are included but not limited to breast cancer leukocytic cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostatic cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer cervical cancer esophageal cancer testicular cancer spleenic cancer kidney cancer lymphatic cancer pancreatic cancer stomach cancer and thyroid cancer.

This invention also provides a method for reducing swelling reducing symptoms of chronic venous insufficiency peripheral edema chronic venous disease varicose vein disease varicose syndrome venous stasis Expectorant peripheral vascular disorders cerebro organic convulsion cerebral circulation disorder cerebral edema psychoses dysmenorrheal hemorrhoids episiotomies peripheral edema formation or postoperative swelling for reducing symptoms of leg pain for treating pruritis lower leg volume for reducing symptoms of pain thrombosis thromophlebitis for preventing gastric ulcers antispasmotic antilipemic comprising administering to a subject in need thereof an effective amount of the composition of this invention.

This invention provides a composition comprising the compounds provided in the invention for treating cancers for inhibiting virus for preventing cerebral aging for improving memory improving cerebral functions for curing enuresis frequent micturition urinary incontinence dementia Alzheimer s disease autism brain trauma Parkinson s disease or other diseases caused by cerebral dysfunctions for treating arthritis rheumatism poor circulation arteriosclerosis Raynaud s syndrome angina pectoris cardiac disorder coronary heart disease headache dizziness kidney disorder cerebrovascular disease inhibiting NF Kappa B activation for treating brain edema sever acute respiratory syndrome respiratory viral diseases chronic venous insufficiency hypertension chronic venous disease hemonhoids peripheral edema formation varicose vein disease flu post traumatic edema and postoperative swelling for inhibiting blood clot for inhibiting ethanol absorption for lowering blood sugar for regulating the adrenocorticotropin and corticosterone level. This invention provides a composition for AntiMS antianeurysm antiasthmatic antibradykinic anticapillarihemorrhagic anticephalagic anticervicobrachialgic antieclamptic antiedemic antiencaphalitic antiepiglottitic antiexudative antiflu antifracture antigingivitic antihematomic antiherpetic antihistaminic antihydrathritic antimeningitic antioxidant antiperiodontic antiphlebitic antipleuritic antiraucedo antirhinitic antitonsilitic antiulcer antivaricose antivertiginous anti oedematous anti inflammatory cancerostatic corticosterogenic diuretic fungicide hemolytic hyaluronidase inhibitor lymphagogue natriuretic pesticide pituitary stimulant thymolytic vasoprotective inhibiting leishmaniases modulating adhesion or angiogenesis of cancer cells antiparasitics or manufacturing an adjuvant composition and venotonic treatment.

This invention provides a use of compounds or methods for inhibiting the expression or secretion of adhesion proteins of cancers cancer cell migration metastasis or growth of cancers wherein this invention comprises a process and method for administration of the an effective amount of composition wherein administration is by intravenous injection intravenous drip intraperitoneal injection or oral administration wherein administration is by intravenous drip 0.003 0.03 mg kg body weight of compound dissolved in 250 ml of 10 glucose solution or in 250 ml of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous injection 0.003 0.03 mg kg body weight per day of compound dissolved in 10 20 ml of 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or 0.01 0.03 mg kg body weight of compound dissolved in 250 ml of 10 glucose solution or in 250 ml of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous injection 0.01 0.03 mg kg body weight per day of compound dissolved in 10 20 ml of 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or 0.01 0.05 mg kg body weight of compound dissolved in 250 ml of 10 glucose solution or in 250 ml of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous injection 0.01 0.05 mg kg body weight per day of compound dissolved in 10 20 ml of 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or 0.05 0.2 mg kg body weight of compound dissolved in 250 ml of 10 glucose solution or in 250 ml of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous injection 0.05 0.2 mg kg body weight per day of compound dissolved in 10 20 ml of 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous drip 0.1 0.2 mg kg body weight per day of compound dissolved in 250 ml of 10 glucose solution or in 250 ml of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intravenous injection 0.1 0.2 mg kg body weight per day compound dissolved in 10 20 ml of 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or by intraperitoneal injection I.P. 2.5 mg kg body weight per day compound dissolved in 10 glucose solution or of 0.9 NaCl solution or by oral administration wherein the dosage of mammal is 0.01 3 mg kg 0.1 5 mg kg 1 10 mg kg 10 30 mg kg 30 60 mg kg or 60 90 mg kg body weight of compound or by intravenous injection or intravenous drip wherein the dosage of mammal is 0.01 0.1 mg kg 0.1 0.2 mg kg 0.2 0.4 mg kg or 0.4 0.6 mg kg body weight of compound or by intraperitoneal injection I.P. wherein the dosage of mammal is 1 3 mg kg 3 5 mg kg 4 6 mg kg or 6 10 mg kg body weight of compound.

This invention provides a use of compounds or methods for inhibiting the expression or secretion of adhesion proteins of cancers cancer cell migration metastasis or growth of cancers wherein the invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound of this invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 ug ml to 65 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 ug ml to 40 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 ug ml to 30 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 ug ml to 5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 ug ml to 5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 ug ml to 7.5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 ug ml to 15 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 ug ml to 20 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 ug ml to 30 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 ug ml to 5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 ug ml to 7.5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 ug ml to 15 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 ug ml to 20 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 ug ml to 30 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 ug ml to 5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 ug ml to 7.5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 ug ml to 15 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 ug ml to 20 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 ug ml to 30 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 4 ug ml to 5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 4 ug ml to 7.5 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 4 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 4 ug ml to 15 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 4 ug ml to 20 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 4 ug ml to 30 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 ug ml to 8 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 ug ml to 9 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 ug ml to 15 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 ug ml to 20 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 ug ml to 30 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 ug ml to 8 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 ug ml to 9 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 ug ml to 10 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 ug ml to 15 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 ug ml to 20 ug ml or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 ug ml to 30 ug ml.

This invention provides a use of compounds or methods for inhibiting the expression or secretion of adhesion proteins of cancers cancer cell migration metastasis or growth of cancers wherein the invention comprises a pharmaceutical composition comprising the compound of this invention or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.008 uM to 80 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 uM to 60 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 uM to 50 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 uM to 40 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 uM to 30 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 uM to 20 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.01 uM to 10 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 10 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 5 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 7.5 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 10 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 15 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 20 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 30 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 40 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 50 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 60 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 0.1 uM to 80 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 5 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 7.5 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 10 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 15 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 20 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 30 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 40 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 50 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 60 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 1 uM to 80 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 5 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 7.5 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 10 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 15 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 20 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 30 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 40 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 50 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 60 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 3 uM to 80 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 8 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 10 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 15 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 20 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 30 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 40 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 50 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 60 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 5 uM to 80 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 8 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 10 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 15 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 20 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 30 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 40 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 50 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 60 uM or wherein said compound is present in a concentration of 7 uM to 80 uM.

Alkenyl means unsaturated linear or branched structures and combinations thereof having 1 7 carbon atoms one or more double bonds therein. Non limiting examples of alkenyl groups include vinyl propenyl isopropenyl butenyl s and t butenyl pentenyl hexenyl butadienyl pentadienyl and hexadienyl.

An aryl is a functional group of organic molecule derived from an aromatic compound such as benzene a 6 14 membered carbocyclic aromatic ring system cpmprising 1 3 benzene rings. If two or more aromatic rings are present then the rings are fused together so that adjacent rings share a common bond. Examples include phenyl and naphthyl. The aryl group may be substituted with one or more sunstitutes independnetly selected from halogen alkyl or alkoxy.

Acyl is a functional group obtained from an organic acid by the removal of the carboxyl. Acyl groups can be written as having the general formula COR where there is a double bond between the carbon and oxygen. The names of acyl groups typically end in yl such as formyl acetyl propionyl butyryl and benzoyl.

Heterocyclic compound a compound containing a heterocyclic ring which refers to a non aromatic ring having 1 4 heteroatoms said ring being isolated or fused to a second ring selected from 3 to 7 membered alicyclic ring containing 0 4 heteroatoms aryl and heteroaryl wherein said heterocyclic comprises pyrrolidinyl pipyrazinyl morpholinyl trahydrofuranyl imidazolinyl thiomorpholinyl and the like.

Alkanoyl is the general name for an organic functional group RCO where R represents hydrogen or an alkyl group. Preferably alkanoyl is selected from acetyl propionoyl butyryl isobutyryl pentanoyl and hexanoyl.

Alkenoyl is alkenylcarbonyl in which alkenyl is defined above. Examples are pentenoyl tigloyl and hexenoyl angeloyl .

Alkyl is a radical containing only carbon and hydrogen atoms arranged in a chain branched cyclic or bicyclic structure or their combinations having 1 18 carbon atoms. Examples include but are not limited to methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl butyl s and t butyl pentyl hexyl heptyl octyl nonyl undecyl dodecyl tridecyl tetradecyl pentadecyl cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl and cyclohexyl.

Benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl is refer to straight or branched C1 C6 alkanoyl substituted with at least one benzoyl and at least one alkyl wherein the benzoyl is attached to a straight or branched C1 C6 alkyl. Preferably a benzoyl alkyl substituted alkanoyl is benzoyl methyl isobutanoyl.

A sugar moiety is a segment of molecule comprising one or more sugars or derivatives thereof or alduronic acid thereof.

This invention provides a method of altering the characteristic of cancer cell membrane to block the migration metastasis of cancer cells or inhibit the growth of cancers or anti angiogenesis.

This invention provides a composition and method for inhibiting the growth migration metastasis of cancer by altering the adhesion characteristic of membrane of cancer cell wherein the cancers comprise breast cancer leukocyte cancer liver cancer ovarian cancer bladder cancer prostate cancer skin cancer bone cancer brain cancer leukemia cancer lung cancer colon cancer CNS cancer melanoma cancer renal cancer or cervix cancer wherein the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y5 Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 or a salt ester metabolite thereof. In an embodiment the method comprises administering to a subject or contacting the cells with the compound selected from formula in this application.

This application shows Xanifolia Y is an alternate or supplemental agent to DNA inhibition or microtubule targeting drugs. It could be beneficial if it is used singly or in combination with other drugs of different mechanisms block M phase progression or DNA synthesis . Our inventions show combined effect of Xanifolia Y and paclitaxel on inhibition of ES2 cells growth Detail in Experiment 14 U.S. Ser. Nos. 11 683 198 filed on Mar. 7 2007 .

Identify the binding target of Xanifolia Y of adhesion proteins and signaling proteins in ovarian cancer cells.

In our animal studies it was shown that Xanifolia Y extended the life span of tumor bearing mice. Reference Experiments 7 8 9 in U.S. Ser. Nos. 11 683 198 filed on Mar. 7 2007 . The animals died sooner if the treatment of Xanifolia Y was delayed comparing results of treatments started from 1 4 or 10 days after tumor inoculation . The results show that Xanifolia Y inhibits migration or metastasis of the inoculated cancer cells. Ovarian carcinoma cells express high levels of adhesion molecules. Adhesion proteins are present in both cancer cells and mesothelial cells. While the lost of adhesion blocks of the protein accessibility due to a result of modulating by Xanifolia Y In an embodiment the interaction of Xanifolia Y with membrane alter the adhesion protein s binding site s .

Fibronectin is a kind of glycoprotein that binds to membrane spanning receptor proteins comprising the integrins collagen fibrin and heparin sulfate. Fibronectin has been implicated in tumor development and metastasis. This application provides methods and compositions for modulating the gene expression of fibronectin inhibiting the secretion of fibronectin reducing the receptors of fibronectin reducing the adhesion ability fibronectin inhibiting the metastasis or inhibiting cancer growth wherein the method and composition comprises administering to the said subject as effective amount of compounds selected in this application.

Angiogenesis is a process involving the growth of new blood vessels. It is a normal process in growth and development. However this is also a fundamental step in the transition of tumors from a dormant state to a malignant state. The angiopoietins are protein growth factors that modulate angiogenesis. The identified angiopoietins comprise angiopoietin 1 angiopoietin 2 angiopoietin 3 angiopoietin 4 angiopoietin 5 angiopoietin 6 angiopoietin 7 angiopoietin like 1 angiopoietin like 2 angiopoietin like 3 angiopoietin like 4 angiopoietin like 5 angiopoietin like 6 and angiopoietin like 7. In an embodiment the angiopoietin 1 is a positive foctor to promote the new blood vessels. In embodiment the angiopoietin 2 is antagonist of angiopoietin 1 which is a negative factor for the growth of new blood vessels. This application provides methods and compositions for modulating angiopoietin and inhibiting cancer growth wherein the cancers comprise breast leukocyte liver ovarian bladder prostate skin bone brain leukemia lung colon CNS melanoma renal and cervix cancer wherein the methods and compositions comprise administering to the said subject as effective amount of compounds selected in this appliaction. The compounds in this application are positive regulating angiopoietin 2. The compounds in this application are negative regulating the angiopoietin 1. The results of the micro array experiment showed that compound Y and YM ACH Y modulate the gene expression of angiopoietin family in ES2 cells. They promote angiopoietin 2 and inhibit angiopoietin 1 and angiopoietin like 1 and angiopoietin like 4.

The compounds in this application are used antiparasitics enhancing an immune response providing adjuvant activities or providing vaccine activities anti angiogenesis inhibiting cancer cell metastasis and inhibiting cancer growth wherein the compounds comprise Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 ACH Y or a salt ester metabolite thereof and compounds selected from formula 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the method is administering contacting the compound in this application comprising Xanifolia Y0 Y1 Y2 Y Y7 Y8 Y9 Y10 Xanifolia x Escin or Aescin or a salt ester metabolite thereof. In an embodiment the compound may be selected from formulas 1A 1B 1C 1D 1E 1F 1G 1H 1J 1K 1L . In an embodiment the compound comprises a triterpene backbone two angeloyl groups and sugar moiety. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound A to X and A1 to X1 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from Compound Z1 to Z7 in the application. In an embodiment the compound s are selected from ACH Z4 ACH Y10 ACH Y2 ACH Y8 ACH Y7 ACH Y0 ACH X ACH E. In an embodiment the saponins comprise Ba1 Ba2 Ba3 Ba4 Ba5 Ba6 Ba7 Ba8 Ba9 Ba10 Ba11 Ba12 Ba13 Ba14 Ba15 Ba16 Ba 17.

The triterpene compounds of this invention can be administered to a subject in need thereof treating the subject wherein including preventing canceror has adjuvant effect to the subject or inhibiting the initiation or promotion of cancer or killing the cancer tumor cells. In an embodiment the compounds inhibit the activation of nuclear factor kB wherein inhibiting the localization or wherein binding the DNA. In an embodiment the compounds induce apoptosis in cancer cells.

Table 1 to 12 Effect of Y and YM on gene expression Table of 1 to 12 PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 are incorporated herein by reference 

Studies of xanifolia Y analogs and other saponin on Fibronectin secretion from ES2 cells. Results of F 23 F21 F13 F14 F24 F25 26 31B F27 29 F28 30 F 31 32 F 33 F20 in PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 

The results of study in PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 are incorporated herein by reference.

Data obtained from our Microarray experiments disclose that Xanifolia Y modulates gene expression of the following genes represented by gene symbol 

Gene Symbol ABL2 ADAMTS1 AKR1C3 AMIGO2 ANGPT2 ANKRD11 AP2B1 APEH APLP2 ARL10C ARMC4 ARMCX1 ARMCX6 ARNTL2 ARNTL2 ATF3 ATP6V0E ATP6V1B2 ATP6V1C1 ATP6V1C1 BCL2A1 BCL6 BRI3 BTD C14orf109 C14orf78 C17orf32 C6orf65 C9orf10 C9orf103 CAD CAV1 CAV2 CBLL1 CCL20 CD33L3 CEBPB CEP4 CFH CFHL1 CHRDL1 CITED2 CITED2 CLDN14 CLN8 CLTA CNAP1 COG6 COL18A1 COL4A2 COL5A1 COL5A2 COL6A3 COPG CPM CPNE3 CPSF1 CSRP2BP CSTB CTNS CXCL2 DDB1 DDIT3 DDX20 DKFZP56411171 DKFZP586J0619 DUSP10 DUSP10 DYRK3 EEF2K EFEMP1 EMP1 EVC EVI2A EXT2 FAM62A FER1L3 FLJ14466 FLNA FN1 FN1 GANAB GDF15 GEM GNPDA1 GPAA1 GPC6 GPNMB GPNMB GUSB H2AFV H2AFV HDAC9 HDLBP HECW2 HMGA2 HMOX1 HSDL2 HSPBAP1 HSPC196 HYOU1 IDS IGFBP3 IKBKAP INSIG1 IPO4 IRS2 JAG1 KDELR3 KIAA0251 KIAA0586 KIAA1211 KIAA1462 KIAA1706 KIAA1754 KRT18 KRT7 KRTAP4 7 LAMP2 LEPR LEPREL1 LHFPL2 LIF LOC286044 LOC339229 LOC90693 LRRC8E MAFG MAGED2 MCTP1 MGC16291 MGC19764 MGC5618 MRPS30 MRPS31 MTERFD3 MYH9 NAGA NAV2 NCSTN NEK9 NEU1 NFKBIZ NMT2 NPC2 NSUN5C NTNG1 NUP188 OACT2 OS9 P4HA1 P8 PALM2 AKAP2 PALM2 AKAP2 PARVA PBX2 PDE4DIP PDIA4 PDIA6 PEG10 PHF19 PIK4CA PLEKHM1 PLOD1 PLOD2 PPP1R15A PPP1R15A PRKDC PRSS23 PRSS23 PSEN2 PSMD1 PTPRF PTPRJ RAB32 RAB9A RG9MTD1 RGS4 RHOQ RND3 RNF25 RNPEP UBE2V1 Kua Kua UEV RNU17D ROBO4 RRAGC RRS1 SEC31L1 SERPINB2 SERPINB7 SESN2 SGEF SGSH SKIV2L SLC25A21 SLC35A3 SLC3A2 SMARCA1 SNAPC1 SNF1LK SPOCD1 SPTAN1 SQSTM1 ST3GAL6 STC2 STX3A TFPI2 TFPI2 TGFBI TGM2 THRAP1 TLN1 TMEM60 TNFAIP3 TRIB3 TRIO TSC2 UAP1L1 UBAP2L UPP1 URB USP11 USP5 VDR WDR4 YTHDF2 ZCCHC9 ZDHHC20 ZFHX1B ZNF185 ZNF278 ZNF690 ZNF697

Data obtained from our Microarray experiments disclose that Xanifolia Y inhibiting gene expression of the following genes represented by gene symbol 

AKR1C3 SLC35A3 NEK9 CAV1 USP11 KRT7 TGM2 NCSTN COG6 WDR4 GPAA1 GUSB UBAP2L NMT2 C9orf10 KIAA0251 BTD EMP1 KRT18 OS9 CPSF1 PSMD1 RNPEP UBE2V1 Kua Kua UEV NAGA PARVA HYOU1 ARMC4 APEH BTD FER1L3 CFH CFHL1 COL5A2 EFEMP1 COL18A1 HSDL2 NUP188 IDS PLOD1 CPM SPTAN1 LAMP2 ARNTL2 PLOD2 KDELR3 KIAA0586 SMARCA1 PRSS23 PTPRJ LEPREL1 H2AFV CAD URB CPNE3 DKFZP586J0619 SERPINB7 CNAP1 EEF2K IKBKAP SLC25A21 KDELR3 PDIA6 CAV2 COL4A2 MAGED2 PHF19 OACT2 JAG1 FAM62A KDELR3 PIK4CA USP5 ZDHHC20 H2AFV PTPRF PEG10 P4HA1 MAGED2 PRSS23 PTPRF CHRDL1 C6orf65 APLP2 EXT2 COPG SKIV2L PDIA4 MYH9 SEC31L1 GANAB COL5A1 ZNF185 DDB1 HDLBP AP2B1 TSC2 IPO4 FLNA TLN1 PRKDC COL6A3 NTNG1 LEPR RGS4 FN1 GPC6 LEPR RGS4 IGFBP3

Data obtained from our Microarray experiments disclose that Xanifolia Y stimulates gene expression of the following genes represented by gene symbol 

P8 KRTAP4 7 DUSP10 CLDN14 ANGPT2 DUSP10 GDF15 GPNMB HDAC9 HECW2 C14orf78 UPP1 PPP1R15A PLEKHM1 STX3A ANGPT2 SQSTM1 RHOQ STC2 PPP1R15A LOC286044 ATF3 HMOX1 CXCL2 CD33L3 LRRC8E SESN2 LIF TFPI2 KIAA1706 RRAGC DDIT3 DYRK3 CTNS GPNMB CEBPB CCL20 AMIGO2 KIAA1462 HSPBAP1 EVC CLN8 ABL2 SGEF MCTP1 IRS2 C14orf109 TNFAIP3 RND3 ZFHX1B LHFPL2 SNF1LK SLC3A2 NAV2 SPOCD1 TFPI2 EVI2A ST3GAL6 CSTB ROBO4 GNPDA1 GEM IRS2 HMGA2 PALM2 AKAP2 BRI3 KIAA1754 VDR NEU1 INSIG1 C17orf32 ABL2 PALM2 AKAP2 MTERFD3 ZNF697 NFKBIZ BCL6 THRAP1 MGC5618 ADAMTS1 MAFG NPC2 CITED2 TRIB3 ZCCHC9 RNU17D CITED2 RRS1 NSUN5C PBX2 RG9MTD1 SGSH INSIG1 MGC16291 RAB9A ARMCX6 SERPINB2 ATP6V1B2 DKFZP56411171 ATP6V0E HSPC196 MRPS30 ARMCX1 LOC339229 ANKRD11 C9orf103 PSEN2 ADAMTS1 SNAPC1 RNF25 ZNF278 TGFBI UAP1L1 PDE4DIP MGC19764 TMEM60 CEP4 KIAA1211 DDX20 CSRP2BP ZNF690 TRIO CLTA ATP6V0E RAB32 MRPS31 LOC90693 ATP6V1C1 CBLL1 YTHDF2 FLJ14466 ARL10C BCL2A1

Data obtained from our Microarray experiments disclose that Xanifolia YM ACH Y stimulate gene expression of the following genes represented by gene symbol 

Our experiment disclosed that Xanifolia Y and ACH Y inhibited genes expression of the following genes FN1 ITGAV LAMA4 LAMB2 LAMC1 LAMB1 LAMB1 LAMA4 LAMA5 LAMC1 LAMA2 LAMB1 LAMA3 SCAMP1 TICAM2 SCAMP1 TICAM2 SCAMP1 SCAMP1 CAMK2B DL1 ICAM3 CEECAM1 ICAM5 SCAMP1 CAMK1G CAMSAP1 MCAM CAMTA1 CKN1 ALCAM DCAMKL2 CEACAM3 CAMK2D CAMK2B SCAMP5 CAMK4 NCAM1 CAMK2G MYH9 MYH10 MYO1D MYO5A MYLK MYO6 MYO5A MYO1C MYLK MYO6 MYLC2PL MYO10 MYO6 TPM3 MYO1C BECN1 MYO1E TPM3 M RIP MYO1B MYO10 MYO5A M RIP MYO10 MYL6 MYOHD1 BECN1 TPM4 MYLK MYH10 MYOHD1 LOC221875 LOC402643 MYO15B LOC129285 MYH11 MYO1B MYO1C MYO9B CDH13 CTNNAL1 CDH13 CDH12 CTNNB1 CDH5 CTNND1 CDH2 CTNNA1 CDH2 PCDHB16 CTNNA1 CELSR2 PCDHB6 PCDHB7 CTNND2 PCDHGC3 PCDHGB4 PCDHGA8 PCDHGA12 PCDHGC5 PCDHGC4 PCDHGB7 PCDHGB6 PCDHGB5 PCDHGB3 PCDHGB2 PCDHGB1 PCDHGA11 PCDHGA10 PCDHGA9 PCDHGA7 PCDHGA6 PCDHGA5 PCDHGA4 PCDHGA3 PCDHGA2 PCDHGA1 CTNND1 CDH23 PCDHB12 PCDHB10 PCDH18 CDH20 PCDH9 PCDHGA12 PCDHGA11 PCDHGA10 PCDHGA6 PCDHGA5 PCDHGA3 PCDH7 CDH18 CDH6 CCBE1 COL10A1 COL12A1 COL13A1 COL18A1 COL1A1 COL21A1 COL4A1 COL4A2 COL4A5 COL4A6 COL5A1 COL5A2 COL6A1 COL6A2 COL6A3 COL9A1 MMP9 P4HA1 P4HA2 P4HB PCOLCE PCOLCE2 PCOTH PLOD1 PLOD2 PLOD3 CIB1 ILK ITGA2 ITGA3 ITGA4 ITGA6 ITGAV ITGB1 ITGB1BP1 ITGB2 ITGB5 ITGBL1 TNC EMILIN1 ICAM1 HSPG2 HPSE HS2ST1 SDC2 

Determination of gene expression by Real time PCR method Brilliant QPCR Agilent Technologies The real time polymerase chain reactions further confirm the results obtained from micro array analysis. The Real time PCR results shown below confirmed that Compound Y3 and YM increase the expression of the genes ANGPT2 DDIT3 LIF and NFKB1Z

Data obtained from our Microarray experiments disclose that Xanifolia Y modulates gene expression. This invention provides compositions and methods for modulating the gene expression in cancer cells wherein the modulating comprises of positive and negative regulation wherein genes being modulated are adhesion proteins wherein modulation includes expression production and secretion of adhesion proteins wherein the adhesion proteins comprise fibronectin integrins family Myosin vitronectin collagen laminin cadherin heparin Glypican tenascin CD 54 CAM. This invention provides compositions and methods for modulating angiopoietins wherein comprises positive regulating the angiopoietin 2 wherein comprises negative regulating angiopoietin 1. The composition and method of this invention comprises a triterpene wherein acylated group at carbon position 21 and or 22 of the triterpene is necessary for the function and are selected from angeloyl acetyl alkanoyl and alkenoyl and acyl group. The sugar moiety ies at position 5 of the triterpene is important for enhancing activity of these compounds.

Leptin is a promoter in breast cancer cells. The Xanifolia Y and YM inhibit the expression of leptin.

The thrombospondins are a family of multifunctional proteins. The family includes thrombospondins 1 5. Thrombospondin 1 TSP1 is a multifunctional matricellular glycoprotein containing interacting domains for a large variety of adhesion migration and proliferation angiogenesis and tumor cell metastasis.

The insulin like growth factor binding protein IGFBP is a multifunctional protein that relate to metastasis tumor growth and angiogenesis. Compounds in this application modulate gene expression of RAB3B inhibiting metastasis tumor growth and angiogenesis.

The activation of cell migration and cancer cells metastasis requires the sensitive of potassium channel. The results of the micro array experiment showed that compound Y and YM inhibit gene expression of family protein relate to potassium channel in ES2 cells.

RAB3B is member RAS oncogene family protein. Compounds in this application modulate gene expression of RAB3B inhibiting metastasis tumor growth and angiogenesis.

In mild conditions the saponin can be partially hydrolyzed into a mixture of products which are separated by HPLC. Specific partial hydrolysis of saponins can also be achieved with enzymes. The glycosidases catalyze the hydrolysis of the glycosidic linkage. Galactosidase is an enzyme which catalyzes the hydrolysis of galactosides. The glucosidase is an enzyme which breaks glucose from saponin. Other enzyme examples are xylanases lactase amylase chitinase sucrase maltase and neuraminidase.

The sugar moiety of the triterpenoid saponin example Xanifolia Y can be removed by acid hydrolysis. The synthetic compound of ACH Y is obtained. The ACH Y is a triterpene with acyl groups but no sugar moiety. The acyl group of the saponin example Xanifolia Y can be removed by alkaline hydrolysis. A synthetic compound of AKOH Y can be obtained. The AKOH Y is a pentacyclic triterpene with sugar moieties. A pentacyclic triterpene can be obtained by acid and alkaline hydrolysis of saponin from natural source. A pentacyclic triterpene also can be obtained by other methods Reference Surendra et al. Rapid and Enantioselective Synthetic Approches to Germanicol and Other Pentacyclic Triterpenes . The pentacyclic triterpene with sugar moieties can also be obtained with synthesis Reference Ple et al. Synthesis of L arabinopyranose containing hederagenin saponins . Acylation is the process of adding an acyl group to a compound. Friedel Crafts reaction is an example of the process. An active compound can be obtained by acylating a pentacyclic triterpene. In an embodiment acylating C21 and C22 of a pentacyclic triterpene gives an anticancer compound. In an embodiment sugar moiety s at C3 can increase the activities of pentacyclic triterpene wherein the triterpene has acyl group s wherein the acyl group s may be at C21 22 or 28. In an embodiment a sugar moiety is at C21 22 or 28 wherein the sugar moiety is substituted with 2 acyl groups. Reference in PCT US US05 319000 WO20061029221 filed Sep. 7 2005 U.S. Ser. No. 11 289 142 filed Nov. 28 2005 

Determination of cell growth of parasites by MTT assay shows that Y10 is cytotoxic to promastigotes with IC50 of 15 ug ml. IC50 of Y is 15 ug ml Y0 is 25 ug ml Y1 is 23 ug ml Y5 is 16 ug ml Y7 is 18 ug ml ACH Y Is 30 ug ml Mb5 is 15 ug ml ACH Mb5 is 18 ug ml Z12 is 23 ug ml and Ba1 is 15 ug ml. AKOH Y and AKOH Mb5 are not cytotoxic to promastigotes .

The invention will be better understood by reference to the Experimental Details which follow but those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that the specific experiments detailed are only illustrative and are not meant to limit the invention as described herein which is defined by the claims which follow thereafter.

Throughout this application various references or publications are cited. Disclosures of these references or publications in their entireties are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the state of the art to which this invention pertains. It is to be noted that the transitional term comprising which is synonymous with including containing or characterized by is inclusive or open ended and does not exclude additional un recited elements or method steps.

Experiment details of herb extraction analysis of extract components by HPLC determination of the cell growth activity effected by Xanifolia Y with cells derived from different human organs using MTT Assay purification of the bioactive components from plant extract fractionation of plant extracts with FPLC isolation of component Ys with preparative HPLC determination of the chemical structure cell experiments and animal studying are disclosed in PCT US05 31900 U.S. Ser. No. 11 289 142 U.S. Serial 10 906 303 U.S. Ser. No. 11 131 551 and U.S. Ser. Nos. 11 683 198 filed on Mar. 7 2007 PCT US2007 077273 filed Aug. 30 2007 U.S. Ser. No. 60 890 380 filed on Feb. 16 2007 U.S. Nos. 60 947 705 filed on Jul. 3 2007 PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference. Experiments 1 23 of PCT US2008 002086 1188 ALA PCT filed Feb. 15 2008 are incorporated herein by reference.

Method 15 mg saponin was dissolved in 1 ml of Methanol. 1 ml of 2N HCl was then added. The mixture was refluxed in 80 C. water bath for 5 hours. The solution was then neutralized by adding 2 ml of 1N NaOH to final pH 4 6 . The aglycone was then extracted with ethylacetate 3 ml 2. The extracts were collected and pooled. Further isolation of aglycone sugar removed saponin was achieved by HPLC with isocratic elution of 80 100 acetonitrile.

Method 20 mg of saponin was dissolved in 0.5 ml of 1M NaOH. The solution was incubated in 80 C. water bath for 4 hours. It was cooled to room temperature before neutralized with 0.5 ml 1 N HCl adjust pH to about 3 . The mixture was extracted with 2 ml 1 butanol 3 times. The butanol fractions were collected and lyophilized. The hydrolyzed saponin with further purified with HPLC in a C 18 column eluted with 25 acetonitrile.

Method Athymic Nu Nu mice 5 6 weeks old are divided into two groups 1 and 2 with 5 animals in each group. On day 0 all mice were transplanted intra peritoneally with one million ES2 human ovarian cancer cells. Animals were randomly divided into two groups 

Group Drug treatment group. On days 10 15 and 18 22 animals received daily drug administration of Xanifolia Y by i.p. route at dosage of 2.5 mg kg.

Results Animals showed high tumor burden after 18 days. Animals with high tumor burden were euthanized and solid tumors were taken out from these mice between 18 27 days . Tumor tissues fixed with formalin at room temperature. The fixed tissues were sectioned and stained with Haematoxylin and eosin H E . The red blood cells inside the micro blood vessels were identified under a microscope. shows that more blood vessels were observed in the control Group1 than those in the drug treated Group 2

Method parasites MRHO SU 59 P LV39 were grown in culture medium in a T75 flask at room temperature. Promastigotes of approximately 40 million per ml were used in the experiment. 1.2 ml cell culture was transferred to a well of the 24 wells plate. Saponin Y10 0.2 ml in medium with different concentrations final 6.25 200 ug ml was added to culture and cells were grown for 1 5 days at room temperature. At the end of drug treatment 150 ul of MTT 5 mg ml in PBS was added to each well and incubated for 4 hours. Formazan formed in cells was dissolved with DMSO and the OD at 490 nm was determined by an ELISA reader.

Results this experiment shows that Y10 is cytotoxic to promastigotes with IC50 approximately equal to 15 ug ml. Experiments are repeated with Y ACH Y AKOH Y Mb5 ACH Mb5 AKOH Mb5 and Ba1.

Method 40 mg of triterpene core fraction IV was dissolved in 1 ml pyridine in a 50 ml tube. Reaction is started by adding 0.2 ml of acyl chloride including Tigloyl chloride angeloyl chloride or benzoyl chloride . The mixture is stirred for 3 days at room temperature. At the end of reaction 3 ml of NaHCO3 is slowly added to the reaction mixture. The solution is then extracted 3 times with 10 ml of ethyl acetate which is then evaporated under vacuum and at 45 C and lyophilization. The active esterification products are purified with HPLC.

Method 40 mg of triterpene core fraction IV was dissolved in 1 ml pyridine in a 50 ml tube. Reaction is started by adding 0.2 ml of acyl chloride including Tigloyl chloride angeloyl chloride or benzoyl chloride . The mixture is stirred for 0.5 hr 1 hr 2 hrs 3 hrs 4 hrs 8 hrs or 1 day at room temperature. At the end of reaction 3 ml of NaHCO3 is slowly added to the reaction mixture. The solution is then extracted 3 times with 10 ml of ethyl acetate which is then evaporated under vacuum and at 45 C and lyophilization. The active esterification products are purified with HPLC.

