---

title: System and method for elections and government accountability
abstract: A method for a voter to vote using an electoral system. An electoral system includes a computing system for accessing a database having first and second data sets correlated to a roster of eligible voters and to a voting record that is associated with each of those eligible voters. The method of voting includes the voter providing indentifying information, which causes the computing system to verify that the voter is on the roster of eligible voters and eligible to vote in the election. The voter interacts with the computing system to cast a preliminary vote and then commits the preliminary vote. The voter may also interact with the computing system to perform a government accountability program in which elected officials may be voted on for sanctions or removal from office when the elected official has lost the confidence of the associated electoral district.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08560381&OS=08560381&RS=08560381
owner: 
number: 08560381
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100624
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Patent Provisional Application No. 61 219 954 entitled METHOD OF VOTING and filed Jun. 24 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. This application also claims priority to International Application No. PCT US2010 039804 entitled A SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ELECTIONS AND GOVERNMENT ACCOUTABILITY and filed June 24 2010.

The present invention relates generally to electoral systems and more specifically to electoral systems that include a computing system.

A representative democracy is a form of government whereby the citizens of sovereign entity elects representatives from amoungst themselves to operate that government. The Constitution of the United States establishes one such representative democracy. The powers of an office within that government may be limited by the Constitution.

Further in the United States an individual s right to vote in an election is determined by both the federal and state governments the federal government determines citizenship while the individual states determine the individual s right to vote within a particular jurisdiction.

There has been an exceedingly growing perception that elected officials are not considering the U.S. citizens interests when fulfilling these official duties as an elected official. Further there has been wide spread reporting of voter disfranchisement and voter fraud. This has led to a progression of mistrust in the citizenry s perception of the government. Yet the current system does not allow for the U.S. citizen outside regularly schedule elections to provide opinions and or feedback on the elected official s performance or to remove an individual from the office if gross misuse of the elected office has occurred.

As a result it would be of great benefit to our republic to include an electoral system that 1 provides the eligible voter with the ability to review and verify their prior voting history 2 provides a concise unambiguous venue through which the eligible voter may provide quantitative responses feedback to their elected official 3 provides the eligible voter with an e vote power that is not limited to Election Day 4 provides a manner of limiting suspending or removing the elected official s privileges associated with the elected office and 5 provides a manner by which the limiting suspending or removing of the elected official s privileges in the case of a true matter of National Security may be overridden by government intervention.

One illustrative embodiment of the present invention is directed to a method by which a voter uses an electoral system to vote. The electoral system includes a computing system for accessing a database having first and second data sets. The first data set is correlated to a roster of eligible voters the second data set is correlated to a voting record that is associated with each of those eligible voters. The method of voting includes the voter providing indentifying information which causes the computing system to verify that the voter is on the roster of eligible voters and eligible to vote in the election. The voter interacts with the computing system to cast a preliminary vote and then commits the preliminary vote. When the preliminary vote is committed the computing system records an information indicative of the preliminary vote and updates the voting record in the second data set associated with the particular voter.

In another illustrative embodiment the present invention is directed to an electoral system with the computing system having an interface to access a database. The database includes first second third and fourth data sets. The first data set correlates to a roster of eligible voters the second data set correlates to a voting record of each of the eligible voters. The second data set may be updated with information indicative of a vote cast. The third data set correlates to a roster of candidates that are seeking election to an office within an electoral district. The fourth data set correlates to the elected official in the office and a record of an action taken by any of the elected officials in his official capacity.

In yet another illustrative embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of lobbying the enactment of legislation. The method includes the recruiting of candidates to sign a contract with an entity that desires the legislation. The contract would require the candidate to sponsor a bill that would enact the legislation in exchange for the endorsing and promoting of the candidate during an election. The recruiting endorsing and promoting will continue until a majority of the seats to an elected office is occupied by signing candidates thereby facilitating the enacting of the legislation.

Referring now to the figures and particularly to where an electoral system having a voter computing system according to a first illustrative embodiment is described. The voter computing system may be operated and or maintained by a government or civilian based organization described herein as the American Political and Government Accountability Agency APGAA however it would be understood that other entities may operate the electoral system and reference to the APGAA herein should not be considered to be limiting. The computing voter system may interface with a National Board of Elections NBOE computing system which is the national agency charged with operating federal elections a secretary of state SOS computing system or other similar state wide agency charged with operating state and local elections and registering voters NBOE and SOS computing systems referred to collectively as the government computing systems and designated with numeral NBOE and SOS collectively referred to as the election authority and other computing systems such as those that are owned by individual eligible voters or as provided in greater detail below.

The voter computing system further includes an interface for accessing and interacting with a database comprising of a plurality of data set to address the challenges noted. Each data correlates to a particular roster of individuals and or information relative to the electoral system . For example a first data set correlates to a roster of eligible voters a second data set correlates to a voting record of each of the eligible voters a third data set correlates to a roster of candidates in an electoral district a fourth data set correlates to a roster of elected officials and a record of actions taken by each of the elected officials and a fifth data set correlates to a roster of employees that are employed by a government agency charged with the responsibility for operating and maintaining the voter computing system . Each data set of the database and the interface between each is described in greater detail below.

The voter computing system may be structured similar to the exemplary embodiment shown in which includes an integrated circuit device ICD consistent with embodiments of the invention. The voter computing system for purposes of this invention may represent any type of computer computer system computing system server disk array or programmable device such as multi user computers single user computers handheld devices networked devices etc. The voter computing system may be implemented using one or more networked computers e.g. in a cluster or other distributed computing system. The voter computing system will be referred to as computer for brevity sake although it should be appreciated that the term computing system may also include other suitable programmable electronic devices consistent with embodiments of the invention.

The voter computing system typically includes at least one processing unit illustrated as CPU coupled to a memory along with several different types of peripheral devices e.g. a mass storage device a user interface including for example user input devices and a display and a network interface . The memory may include dynamic random access memory DRAM static random access memory SRAM non volatile random access memory NVRAM persistent memory flash memory at least one hard disk drive and or another digital storage medium. The mass storage device is typically at least one hard disk drive and may be located externally to the voter computing system such as in a separate enclosure or in one or more networked computers one or more networked storage devices including for example a tape drive and or one or more other networked devices including for example a server . The voter computing system may communicate with the networked computer networked storage device and or networked device through a network . As illustrated in the voter computing system includes one processing unit which in various embodiments may be a single thread multithreaded multi core and or multi element processing unit as is well known in the art. In alternative embodiments the voter computing system may include a plurality of processing units that may include single thread processing units multithreaded processing units multi core processing units multi element processing units and or combinations thereof as is well known in the art. Similarly memory may include one or more levels of data instruction and or combination caches with caches serving an individual processing unit or multiple processing units as is well known in the art. In some embodiments the voter computing system may also be configured as a member of a distributed computing environment and communicate with other members of that distributed computing environment through the network .

The memory of the voter computing system may include an operating system to control the primary operation of the voter computing system in a manner that is well known in the art. In a specific embodiment the operating system may be a Unix like operating system such as Linux. The memory may also include at least one application or other software program configured to execute in combination with the operating system and perform a task. It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that other operating systems may be used such as Windows MacOS or Unix based operating systems for example Red Hat Debian Debian GNU Linux etc.

In general the routines executed to implement the embodiments of the invention whether implemented as part of an operating system or a specific application component algorithm program object module or sequence of instructions or even a subset thereof will be referred to herein as computer program code or simply program code. Program code typically comprises one or more instructions that are resident at various times in memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by at least one processor in a computer causes that computer to perform the steps necessary to execute steps or elements embodying the various aspects of the invention. Moreover while the invention has been and hereinafter will be described in the context of fully functioning computers and computer systems those skilled in the art will appreciate that the various embodiments of the invention are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the invention applies regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the invention. Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices floppy and other removable disks hard disk drives tape drives optical disks e.g. CD ROM s DVD s HD DVD s Blu Ray Discs among others and transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links

In addition various program code described hereinafter may be identified based upon the application or software component within which it is implemented in specific embodiments of the invention. However it should be appreciated that any particular program nomenclature that follows is merely for convenience and thus the invention should not be limited to use solely in any specific application identified and or implied by such nomenclature. Furthermore given the typically endless number of manners in which computer programs may be organized into routines procedures methods modules objects and the like as well as the various manners in which program functionality may be allocated among various software layers that are resident within a typical computer e.g. operating systems libraries Application Programming Interfaces APIs applications applets etc. it should be appreciated that the invention is not limited to the specific organization and allocation of program functionality described herein.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the environment illustrated in is not intended to limit the present invention. Indeed those skilled in the art will recognize that other alternative hardware and or software environments may be used without departing from the scope of the invention.

Various electoral related processes may be operated by the voter computing system . For example these processes may as shown in registering voters holding elections reviewing past election results and designating approval or disapproval of elected officials . Each of the electoral processes is described in greater detail below.

The process for registering voters with the voter computing system is illustrated in . Typically voter eligibility is based on state dependent criteria and generally an individual may be eligible to vote if he is a legal U.S. citizen of a particular voting age has established residency within an electoral district and is neither incarcerated nor incompetent. It should be readily understood that use of the masculine pronouns he his and variants of the same are meant to be gender neutral and incorporate both feminine and masculine referents. The election authority determines eligibility with the individual providing identifying information in Step . The election authority using the identifying information decides in Inquiry as to whether the individual meets the criteria for voter eligibility. If eligibility is confirmed notification may be forwarded by letter email facsimile telephone call with password or clearance code or other secure means to the eligible voter. However if eligibility cannot be confirmed then the election authority determines whether there is a curable deficiency in the individual s record in Inquiry . If yes then the individual may be provided an opportunity to cure the deficiency otherwise the process ends.

With eligibility notification in hand the eligible voter may then present the eligibility notification to the APGAA for access to the electoral system and entry into the voter computing system in Step . The voter may present the eligibility notification by providing the letter email facsimile password clearance code or other eligibility notification along with a proper identification for example a state issued driver s license or a passport to an employee of the APGAA. The employee who is listed on a roster of employees within the voter computing system may possess identification such as an employee card for performing duties related to their employment. The identification may include a photograph of the employee a bar code biometric information or other known security measures to ensure that only listed employees on the roster may perform duties relative to the voter computing system .

In Step the employee may interface with the voter computing system for example by way of a computer or terminal which presents a series of duties operable by the employee including for example those shown in . The terminal may include any of the variety of user interfaces described previously including a touch screen or keyboard entry. The series of duties may include issuing a voter registration card reissuing a voter registration card issuing an elected official card and or terminating a voter registration card . In one embodiment when the employee selects a duty to perform the terminal may request that the employee certify his employment status which may be accomplished by scanning the barcode of his employment card providing a password and or providing the biometric information or data. In this way the voter computing system indentifies the employee taking the action records the action taken and saves the record of action taken to be later retrieved for investigations if necessary.

To issue a registration card to an eligible voter the employee makes the appropriate selection on the terminal and proceeds with registering the eligible voter with the voter computing system via the terminal . At the time of registration the voter computing system may collect certain information including the Internet protocol IP address of the terminal a terminal identification if any electoral district in which the eligible voter resides employee information for the employee undertaking the duty and a timestamp corresponding to the date and or time of the data entry. While generally the voter computing system may be beneficially operated without including specific personally identifying information of the eligible voter i.e. name residential address etc. one of ordinary skill would understand that the voter computing system is not so limited. Typically personally identifying information may only be retained by the government computing systems .

Returning again to when the necessary information has been entered the voter computing system stores the information in a first data set and then generates a unique voter identifier which may include a user name and or a PIN generated in Step . One or both of the user name and or PIN may be alpha numeric for example a six character output of letters integers and or special characters selected or randomly assigned such that each eligible voter has a unique voter identifier. Further the voter computing system may provide the option of providing a voter generated access code and or include an Inquiry as to whether the eligible voter desires a security question should retrieval of the unique voter identifier and or access code be necessary. If this additional security is desired then the eligible voter may select a question and answer in Step . In some embodiments the section of a PIN may be required by the voter computing system . The result in Step is the issuance of the voter registration card.

Issuing the voter registration card may be accompanied with printing of the voter registration card for example the card shown in . The voter registration card may include 1 a card title title would differ for employee card or elected official card 2 an issue date 3 an appropriate website address for interfacing with the voter computing system in a manner described in greater detail below 4 the unique voter identifier which includes a randomly generated log in ID and password 5 a notation as a reminder that the voter provided the PIN at the time of voter registration 6 and a barcode or other encoding means.

In some embodiments the voter computing system may print a second voter registration card similar to the first that is maintained by the election authority. In other embodiments the unique voter identifier may be sent to the election authority such as via a secure internet connection email facsimile or other known means. In this way the personal identification name and etc. of the eligible voter may be correlated to the unique voter identifier generated by the voter computing system . Otherwise no personal identifying information is stored in the database of the voter computing system .

At some future time it may be necessary to reprint the voter registration card such as when the card is destroyed misplaced lost stolen or other. In that regard the individual may return to the APGAA office to request a new voter registration card in accordance with a manner shown in .

In Step of the individual may present identification to the employee to verify his identity. Because the voter computing system generally does not retain personal identifying information of the eligible voters the employee may need to search the government computing systems or other relevant agency s roster of eligible voters in Step . Under Inquiry the employee determines whether or not the individual is a registered voter by locating the individual s information in the roster otherwise the employee would indicate to the individual that he is not listed as an eligible voter which may be due to employee error false identity the individual has not previously registered to vote or another issue. In that regard the employee does not continue with the process to reissue the voter registration card and the individual may return to Step of if desired or necessary.

If the employee does verify the voter eligibility the employee retrieves the unique voter identifier associated with the registered voter and logs into the voter computing system via the terminal selects the reissue voter registration card option and enters that unique voter identifier as prompted in Step . The process of reissuing the voter registration card may then proceed in a manner that is consistent with issuing the voter registration card and as shown in . To reduce the possibility of fraud the eligible voter may be asked to enter the voter generated access code and or the security question if those options were previously designated.

The issuing and reissuing of an employee card an elected official card or other similar card for permitting interaction with the voter computing system may be achieved in a manner that is consistent issuing the voter registration card. When issuing the elected official card the elected official may be required to present personal identification as well as be identified as the winning candidate from an election employees may be issued employment cards from other employees or supervisors and so forth. In all instances the voter computing system may record a terminal IP address a terminal identification if any an electoral district employee information for the employee undertaking the duty and a timestamp corresponding to the date and or time of the data entry.

To further reduce the occurrence of fraud individuals may be removed from the roster of eligible voters as necessary such as in death incarceration or other noncompliance with registration laws. One such process for removing individuals is shown with reference to . In Step the voter becomes ineligible such as by one of the known means. Then in Step the necessary authority i.e. police or sheriffs office coroner s office mental health institute or other notifies the election authority of the voter s ineligibility. In Step the election authority notifies the APGAA of the voter ineligibility. If the individual is a valid voter as determined at Inquiry then the employee with the APGAA retrieves the unique voter identifier of the individual in Step . If the individual is not listed as a valid voter then a fraud investigation may ensue at Step .

The employee may then log into the voter computing system via the terminal select the terminate voter registration card option and enter that unique voter identifier. The voter computing system may then terminate all rights associated with the entered voter unique identifier which may further include recording of employee information and other details of the transaction as provided above.

As provided with some detail the electoral system with voter computing system provides a process for maintaining a valid roster of eligible voters and a history of transactions made by employees regarding the roster of eligible voters. This process reduces the likelihood of fraudulent activity and provides a method of voting as described below.

The voter computing system permits the eligible voter to choose a voting station from a home polling station a split polling station or a polling voting location. In that regard and with reference to A and B a method of voting using the voter computing system is described. On Election Day the eligible voter participates in the election by selecting the desired voting station at Inquiry . That is because the voter computing system may be operated to record information that is indicative of a vote cast by each eligible voter then the voter computing system may be operated to enable remote voting e.g. at home and or review of a voting history.

To vote remotely the voter accesses the voter computing system by a secure connection via the other computing system such as the terminal a personal home computer with an Internet browser a smart phone or other known means by accessing the website listed on the voter registration card by entering the unique voter identifier in Step . The website associated with the voter computing system is then loaded and may be similar to the log in screen shown in . The voter then selects the option associated with voting in the current election . In that regard the voter computing system determines at Inquiry whether the voter is eligible to vote in the current election i.e. whether the voter has previously committed a vote in the current election or has lost voter eligibility as provided in detail above. If the voter is not eligible to vote in the current election the process ends otherwise the website presents a ballot containing a roster of candidates for selection and or a listing of one or more issues presented for vote in Step . The one or more issues that may be presented for vote may include for example state constitutional amendments local or municipality ordinances school operating levies referendums voter initiatives and so forth.

The ballot may be formatted according to any number of electronic ballot systems such as those taught in U.S. Pat. No. 7 549 049 issued to Bogasky et al. on Jun. 16 2009 entitled DYNAMIC AUDITING OF ELECTRONIC ELECTIONS U.S. Pat. No. 7 497 377 issued to Watson on Mar. 3 2009 entitled ELECTRONIC POLL REGISTER SYSTEM FOR ELECTIONS and U.S. Pat. No. 5 218 528 issued to Wise et al. on Jun. 8 1993 entitled AUTOMATED VOTING SYSTEM and Patent Publication Nos. 2009 0079538 published on Mar. 26 2009 by Fein et al. and entitled MULTICOMPUTER DATA TRANSFERRIGN AND FILE ACCESSING TO AUTHENTICATE ONLINE VOTING AND REGISTRATION IN A SECURE DATABASE SYSTEM 2006 0289638 published on Dec. 28 2006 by Schilling and entitled VOTING VERIFICATION SYSTEM AND METHOD and 2002 0138341 published on Sep. 26 2002 by Rodriguez et al. and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR ELECTRONIC VOTER REGISTRATION AND ELECTRONIC VOTING OVER A NETWORK.

After the voter finishes selecting candidates and or deciding on the issues the voter is presented with a summary page to review in Step . After reviewing the summary page the voter may then choose at Inquiry to save the candidate selections and issues decisions or to commit the selections as his vote. If the latter is selected then voting is completed in Step . If the voter selects the save option the voter may at a later time return to the website in Step to alter the selection of candidates and or change a decision on one or more issues or to Step to review the previous selections and decisions and then so choose to commit the vote.

Alternatively the voter may choose to save the selection as a pre vote. In this regard the voter would then travel to the polling station on Election Day for committing his vote in a manner that is similar to standard polling station voting described in detail below.

If the voter selects to vote exclusively at the polling station the voter must first verify his identity after arriving at the polling station at Step . This identity verification may include the presentation of the voter registration card a drivers license or other identification for cross reference with the roster of eligible voters that is maintained by the election authority to determine voter eligibility for the current election as in Inquiry . The employee provides the voter with a paper ballot or an access card for use with a conventional ballot machine. Alternatively the voter uses his voter registration card and or his unique voter identifier to access the ballot from the ballot machine or interface with the voter computing system via a terminal or a computer.

If the voter has previously saved a selection of candidates and or decisions on the issues then the voter may simply view his pre vote selections in Step . Otherwise the voter may select the candidates and or decide the issues anew. A summary page may then be generated for the voter to review in Step . If a change is desired then the voter may select revise from Inquiry and return to Step to make a different selection of candidates or change his decision on one or more issues. If no change is desired then the voter may commit his vote.

Turning now to where the process of transferring the committed votes for tally is described in detail. After the voter commits his vote certain information indicative of the vote is recorded to the database of the voter computing system in Step . The information indicative of the vote includes for example the unique voter identifier the candidates selected for each office being elected the decision on each issue the IP Address of the computing system used to make the access the date and timestamp of the save commit and or the electoral district represented by the voter. Other or additional information may also be collected and the manner of doing so would be known to those of ordinary skill in the art.

With certain information recorded the voter computing system forwards the information indicative of the vote i.e. candidate selections and decisions on each issue to the election authority for tally. In one embodiment the voter computing system compiles the information indicative of the votes from a plurality of separate ones of the eligible voters in Step such that the votes may be transferred as a batch i.e. zip compressed or other appropriate format in order to prevent the immediate correlation of vote to voter in a one to one relation. The compiled votes are encrypted in Step i.e. MD5 SHA CRC etc. and then transferred in Step to the election authority. Tally of the votes in Step occurs in the conventional manner or other appropriate means.

Alternatively or concurrently to the electronic process described for tallying the vote the information indicative of the vote may be printed in Step . Generally printing may be accomplished at the polling station and from the terminal when committing the vote. In one embodiment two paper copies of the print summary page are printed one to be deposited with the election authority and the other to be retained by the voter as a record copy as provided in Step . Each copy of the print summary page includes the information indicative of the vote in text format encrypted format or a combination thereof. In other embodiments the print summary page is printed in Portable Document Format .pdf as a text document in .txt .rtx .doc or other similar formats and or may be presented as a downloadable file to the voter for printing and or saving to the voter s computer memory or mass storage device. In yet other embodiments the information indicative of the vote is correlated to a unique document identifier which may be a randomly generated serial number a bar code or other encryption type of device. Given the unique document identifier the voter computing system may generate the information indicative of the vote from the database which permits a paper trail to be generated while maintaining secrecy of the vote.

If desired the voter may validate the two print summary pages with the APGAA or similar authority prior to submission to the election authority. In this way the information indicative of the vote from the print summary page is entered into and confirmed by the voter computing system . One manner of entering and confirming the information includes scanning the barcode of the print summary page and then comparing the recorded vote with the textual format another manner includes scanning the print summary page or the unique document identifier and using character recognition software to confirm the information. Once the information has been validated then the voter deposits the first copy as described above.

As described the electoral system and voter computing system may be operable to allow the eligible voter to preliminarily cast a vote and or commit their vote by remotely accessing the voter computing system and or from the polling station on Election Day.

After Election Day a voter may desire to review a record of his voting history. Conventionally reviewing the voting history was not possible as there has been no manner of tracking a vote to a voter without the use of personal and identifying information and without losing the secret ballot nature of the election. With the voter computing system described above it is possible for the voter and indeed an independent audit agency to review the vote history and or affirm the validity of an election.

One exemplary manner of reviewing vote history is described with reference to and A C. The process begins with Inquiry with a decision to review a vote. This review may be accomplished by the voter s own initiative by request of the APGAA or the election authority to the voter to review their vote or by audit initiated by the election authority or other government authority.

When the review is to be completed by the voter the voter logs into the website in Step in a manner that was generally described above. The voter is presented with the log in screen and in Step selects the option to view the most recent voting activity . While only the option of viewing the most recent voting activity is shown it would be understood that the website could also allow the voter to select a voting activity from any earlier election in which he voted. The voter computing system generates the print summary page or another version thereof containing the information indicative of the vote for the election. One example of the print summary page is shown as a screen capture in . The voter reviews the information indicative of the vote cast in the particular election and determines whether an error is present at Inquiry . If the print page summary accurately reflects the vote cast as recalled by the voter then no discrepancy is present and the vote is validated at Step . However if the information indicative of the vote is not consistent with the voter s memory of the vote cast then a discrepancy is reported in Step . In Step in order to reconcile the discrepancy the voter consults a paper trail record that they may have resulting from the record copy print out of the print page summary and or other personal notes of the votes cast. If the information indicative of the vote does not match the paper trail record at Inquiry then a discrepancy report is generated and transmitted to the election authority in Step otherwise the record is validated in Step . If the voter is unable to produce or consult the paper trail record for example if the paper trail record has been destroyed lost or stolen then the issue of vote discrepancy cannot be resolved and no discrepancy report is generated.

With the discrepancy reported the voter provides his personal records to the election authority in Step including the record copy of the print summary page for an investigation. The election authority will then scan enter decrypt download or otherwise retrieve the information indicative of the vote from the personal records supplied in Step . The voter computing system retrieves the information indicative of the vote corresponding to the unique voter identifier and the particular election under consideration from the second data set of the database in Step . An Inquiry is made to compare the votes and if the votes do not match then a criminal investigation may be initiated in Step if the votes match then the vote is validated in step .

Returning again to the initial Inquiry of where the election authority or other government authority decides to validate an election. Accordingly the election authority will designate an auditor responsible for conducting the review. The auditor may include persons from accounting firms or election authority trained staff in some embodiments two separate persons conduct the review of the same election to provide comparable results. The auditor compiles a sampling of print summary pages that were deposited with the election authority on Election Day in Step . The sampling may include a physical pile of paper copies that were deposited and or a collection of digital print summary pages that had been electronically transferred to the election authority. Then the auditor interfaces with the voter computing system for instance at the terminal by logging into the voter computing system and designating an option to perform an audit in Step . While not specifically shown the options available to the auditor at the terminal may be limited to those having been assigned an Auditor s Card which may be similar to the employee s card but for the limited purposes of performing the audit.

Once the audit has been initiated at a terminal the auditor proceeds with entering the information indicative of the vote from each of the print summary pages in Step . Entering the information from paper copies may include scanning the bar code use of character recognition software manual entry or other known means digital copies of the print summary pages may be downloaded from an external storage drive or secure connection via the Internet for example. The voter computing system utilizes the unique document identifier or identifies the associated unique voter identifier associated with the print summary page and recalls the information indicative of the vote from the designated election from the second data. The information indicative of the vote from the second data is then displayed at the terminal in Step . In Step the auditor compares the paper recorded version of the vote from the print summary pages with the information indicative of the vote on the terminal from the second data. A decision is made at Inquiry as to whether the votes match. If the votes match then the vote is validated in Step if the votes do not match then a discrepancy and or criminal investigation may be initiated.

By presenting a method by which the eligible voter and or the election authority may conduct a review and or audit of prior election results the eligible voter can feel secure that his vote was counted as intended in determining the election results.

The electoral system further allows the eligible voter to securely review the actions taken by those elected to office i.e. elected officials. With reference now to FIGS. and one such exemplary manner of elected official accountability is described with greater detail.

To review the actions the voter may interact with the website and from the log in screen selects the option to interact with your Government which loads an accountability page. is an exemplary screen capture of the accountability page . For instance various elected offices are shown including positions in the federal government President Senators and House of Representatives state government governor state delegates etc. local government and or municipalities mayor trustees etc. along with the name of the persons elected to that office. Additional columns include 

Election indicator that the eligible voter is of the opinion that the particular office should be up for election. Said another way if the particular office does not have an assigned term limit then this indicator would designate that the eligible voter believes that the incumbent and or other candidates should campaign for election to that office 

Messages indicator that the elected official has sent a message to his constituency and the eligible voter has a number of these unreviewed messages 

Watch Dog Alert Items messages or alerts posted by watch dog organizations which are groups typically non profits that monitor government consumer and industrial activities for the purpose of promoting political activism. Typically more than one watch dog organizations are designated to send alert items and or to reviews of Pro Con message submissions and Election Official Comments to the eligible voters of the constituency. In this way each eligible voter is given a neutral analysis on each issue by reviewing various perspectives from different watch dog organizations on each issue. In some embodiments the eligible voter may uniquely designate which watch dog organizations may send alert items to his alert items in other embodiments the eligible voters comprising the whole of the constituency may so designate 

Budget Finance the APGAA may designate an authority with the responsibility for uploading linking to or otherwise notifying the relevant contingency of any pending legislation related to the power of the purse i.e. budget and or finance concerns. The pending legislation may be presented in the narrative form or in a summary form. The summary form may include a spreadsheet containing several columns i.e. a column containing a very brief description of what the item is that s being paid for a total cost column and a column showing the median cost per taxpayer relative to the taxpaying public in the geographic scope of the bill s influence 

Geog indicates the geography or district covered i.e. city state or federal by the representation of each elected office 

Your Confidence Vote when the voting citizen believes that the elected official is acting in direct conflict with the public good and or the public s balanced sensibilities then the voting citizen may change his confidence vote from the default Yes i.e. approval of action on all issues and budget matters to No i.e. disapproval of action on those matters that the voting citizen believes the elected official is acting outside the interest of the public. Though not specifically shown in the illustrated embodiment it may be possible for the percentages of Yes and No confidence votes for each elected official to be presented for viewing. In the event that a statistically significant majority percentage of the eligible voters changes their confidence vote to No then an indicator may appear in the SeV column The statistically significant majority may be determined by any appropriate statistical model or presented as a static percentage such as 70 and

SeV means a special e Vote when an indicator is present in this column for a particular elected official then a number of eligible voters have indicated a No confidence vote of this elected official and the eligible voter may indicate what action if any should be taken against the elected official e.g. censure suspension of voting privileges elected official recall or other as determined by the number of eligible voters .

Another portion of the accountability page provides a listing of issues that are gaining constituency interest. The listing may be ordered according to recent interest by the eligible voters popularity among eligible voters and or geographical relevance. The listing of issues includes all matters of budget policy legislation etc. on which the eligible voter may desire to provide quantitative feedback to the elected official. While the eligible voters may use this portion of the accountability page to bring issues and matters of concern to the attention of their elected official certain issues may restricted from this portion for example those issues concerning national security.

Review Pro Con information relevant to the issue is presented in text and or multimedia form including the text of the bill under consideration. The APGAA may designate persons responsible for reviewing the materials linked to the Pros Cons and removing any uninformed materials and or biased information 

Elevate optional field for a recommendation of possible appeal of the issue to an office of higher jurisdiction i.e. from city to state and

Click to e Vote includes a hotlink that takes the eligible voter to a website or interface with the voter computing system for e voting on the particular issue an example of an e Voting screen is shown in and is described in detail below.

Turning now to the e Voting screen where the eligible voter has an opportunity to comment or vote on a position or opinion relative to the particular issue i.e. by the e Vote . The issues may be evaluated by the eligible voters via a blog type interface not shown and or by a vote. The blog style interface may contain at least two issues columns the first column for presenting the most recent entries and the second column may list the issues in order of importance or popularity among eligible voters. The e Vote interface allows the eligible voter to select an option to be in favor of the issue to be against the issue to recall or withdraw his previous vote on the issue or exit the voting screen without voting.

Each e Vote may include a polling period for providing an amount of time to allow the eligible voters to vote but providing a finality to the polling period e Vote process. The polling period includes a timer such as a date and time of e Vote expiration in a conspicuous location on the voting screen . Accordingly at the close of the polling period the results of the vote may be reported to the APGAA the elected office at large the elected officials the constituency news agencies or other interested entities.

At the end of the e Vote process the votes are tallied by the voter computing system and reported to the constituency and the elected official.

Any elected official may sign into the website in one of two ways 1 with his unique voter identifier as the eligible voter to opine on elected officials and issues as presented above or 2 with the information of his elected official card in order to view his constituency s issues and confidence e Votes and or to present questions and issues for the vote of the eligible voters. One example of an elected official page when interfacing with the voter computing system via the elected official card is shown in . The elected official page includes eligible voters opinions presented in a tabular format. In the illustrated example various events and or issues from Sep. 1 2008 to Sep. 30 2008 are shown for a hypothetical President Fred Harkenfarkle. The tabular format includes a variety of columns such as 

Date the time range reported while the issues presented in are for an entire month other time ranges could be designated. For example the elected official may wish to view a summary of the issues for a given two week period a one week period a particular day or even a year 

 Constituency No Confidence e Votes reports the number of No confidence votes reported for a designated time for example daily 

 Change indicates the relative change in successive e Vote results relative to the same issue and or event 

Most significant Issue designates the issue receiving the most disapproval e Votes by eligible voter response on the day reported and

EOR indicates elected official recall vote progression and reports preliminary measures of the results of a special recall e Vote issued against President Harkenfarkle.

In viewing the hypothetical data of the illustrated example certain features of the elected official page can be seen. For example a 1 reduction in the hypothetical of No confidence e Votes on the issue of Border Agents Ramos Campean Imprisoned on Sep. 4 2008 may indicate that President Harkenfarkle had taken measures to mitigate some negative opinion through media propaganda announcements his APGAA message section etc. However the percentage of No confidence continues to rise on a particular main issue of Evidence Selective Intelligence was used to get into 2war which may be due to a hypothetical media reporter discovering additional culpable information about the Elected Official on the most significant issue and on Sep. 22 2008.

It may also be seen that the Sep. 22 2008 issue includes a 32 EOR rating meaning that 32 of eligible voters are in favor of a recall of President Harkenfarkle. The EOR continues to rise to 67 by Sep. 30 2008. It should be noted that when the EOR reaches the particular value referred to above as the statistically significant majority that the indicator will appear under SeV of the accountability page by President s Harkenfarkle. The presence of the indicator signifies that a statistically significant majority of the eligible voters have independently indicated a lack confidence in Present Harkenfarkle and that an opportunity for the eligible voters to take action may be presented.

While it is beneficial for the eligible voters to have the power to designate a vote of No confidence in the elected officials and to hold these elected officials accountable there may be times in which the eligible voters may not be fully cognizant of all the facts including those that are classified and or related to the issue of national security. Accordingly in some embodiments it may be possible for the government to override the recall of the elected official. For example a Congressional vote by a super majority may overcome the recall of an elected official if the issue can be shown to be related to national security interest.

As has been described with some detail the electoral system provides a manner of allowing eligible voters to have a voice regarding events and issues at all times and not just on Election Day.

Implementing an embodiment of the electoral system may require certain exceptions to anti trust laws constitutional amendments or other regulations to allow for the establishment of a Government permitted monopoly. Those procedural issues aside one manner of the APGAA lobbying for the enactment of legislation that would implement the use of the electoral system according to one embodiment of the invention as described herein is described with reference to . At Step the particular benefits and features of the electoral system are promoted to the eligible voters. Promotion may occur through standard channels of commerce advertisement the use of propaganda or other political activist preferred methods.

In Step a contract for the benefit of the eligible voters is drafted between signing candidates for office and the APGAA agreeing that in exchange for campaign support and or endorsement those signing candidates will at the appropriate time vote in favor of a bill that enacts legislation to the electoral system . Candidates for various elected offices are encouraged to sign the contract with the APGAA in exchange for their campaign endorsements in Step . Then throughout the campaigns of the signing candidates the APGAA will endorse and promote the signing candidates in Step in an effort to obtain the election of those candidates to a seat within the political office in Step . After each Election Day there will be an Inquiry to decide whether a sufficient number of seats of the political office are occupied by the now signing elected officials may include the elected official to the executive branch that ultimately signs the bill into law . If the APGAA decides that a sufficient number of seats are occupied then the APGAA will encourage the elected officials to introduce the bill for the electoral system to the floor and present the bill for vote in Step . Because the majority of seats are occupied by elected officials having signed the contract agreement the bill is likely to be voted into law. While a simple majority may be used for the purposes of passing a bill into law the APGAA may desire to wait until a supra majority veto proof number of seats that are occupied by the elected office that have signed the contract.

If the APGAA determines that an insufficient number of seats are occupied then the APGAA will continue campaigning endorsing and or promoting signing candidates in the next election.

This method of implementing the electoral system ensures that the persons elected to office will act in accordance with the intent of the eligible voters that have elected those persons to office. Further this will enable the eligible voters to gain some accountability over the elected officials.

While the electoral system has been described with some detail there may be other embodiments incorporating one or more features directed to identity and security. For example the database of the voter computing system may further include a data set that is correlated to biometric data of each of the eligible voters of the first data set. The biometric data may include a finger print a handprint a retinal eye scan photograph or other identifying biometric data that may be acquired at the time of voter registration at the terminal . In this way the biometric data may be used by the eligible voter to log into and interact with the voter computing system instead of using the voter registration card .

Indeed there may be other embodiments where the terminal issues all government identification acquires biometric data to populate the database and distinguishes eligible voters from non eligible residents by their biometric data. This embodiment may require additional identification verification at the time of data entry to prevent the fraudulent issue of voter registration cards . The additional verification may include birth certificates social security cards drivers license etc. Transmittal of the biometric data social security number and other identity sensitive information to the voter computing system may include encryption of the data set and other known security measures.

If two or more persons register with the same or similar biometric data social security number or other then the voter computing system may notify the matching persons the police the FBI or other authority to initiate an identity theft investigation to identify which is the legitimate party and to access the biometric data and other personally identifying information provided by the illegitimate party.

With the infrastructure in place for the identification database the identification and biometric data may be used for commercial purposes. For example banks and credit bureaus lend money based on investment risk that is assessed by persons identity credit report and so forth. However fraudulent actions taken by those attempting to obtain a higher credit rating and loans may ultimately affect the rates of legitimate lenders. The use of the biometric data as a point of sale identification POSI enables the direct correlation of consumer credit ratings and credit history with biometric data. Therefore banks and credit bureaus may obtain the most reliable assessment of credit risks.

The commercialization aspect may further include one or more Document Verification Centers DVC which is an authorized institution for correlating documents with the individual s biometric data. Documents may include applications for loans applications for accounts applications for mortgages applications for credit cards and so on.

The commercialization aspect may further limit fraudulent purchases by persons not having authority to purchase goods or services with a particular debit or credit card. For example the POSI would enable retailers to have a biometric detection system in addition to credit and or debit card scanners. When a purchase is made the retailer s computing system will transmit scanned biometric data with identifying information from the credit and or debit card to the voter computing system . If the indentifying and biometric data match then the identity of the purchaser is affirmed and the purchase transaction continues if there is no match then the purchaser may likely be by an unauthorized user of the debit and or credit card and the voter computing system notifies the retailer of the apparent fraudulent activity and the transaction cancelled.

In another embodiment the biometric data may be used by law enforcement agencies to quickly and properly identify a person of interest. By quickly scanning the finger print retina or other biological feature the law enforcement agency can quickly learn the name address and other information regarding the individual including any outstanding warrants for arrest. For example use of the biometric data in this way would be beneficial when the person of interest refuses to identify himself provides a false name is residing in the U.S. illegally and so forth.

If it is desired that the voter computing system is to remain devoid of personally identifying information then it would be possible to correlate the data sets at the voter computing system and the government computing systems such as with the biometric data set so that identification may be possible but the voter record remains anonymous.

The electoral system with voter computing system offer many benefits over conventional manners of voting. For example the voter computing system aids the eligible voter in reviewing and verifying their prior voting history and a manner of providing feedback and opinions to elected officials every day. The voter computing system further empowers the eligible voters with voting rights through e vote which is not limited to Election Day. A manner of limiting or suspending an elected official s rights in the elected office has been described as well as a manner of government override of the recall process.

While the present invention has been illustrated by a description of various embodiments and while these embodiments have been described in some detail they are not intended to restrict or in any way limit the scope of the appended claims to such detail. Additional advantages and modifications will readily appear to those skilled in the art. The various features of the invention may be used alone or in any combination depending on the needs and preferences of the user. This has been a description of the present invention along with methods of practicing the present invention as currently known. However the invention itself should only be defined by the appended claims.

