---

title: System and method for transmitting vehicle information to an occupant communication device
abstract: In at least one embodiment, an apparatus for transmitting vehicle information to an occupant communication device (OCD) is provided. The system comprises a communication module positioned within the vehicle. The communication device is configured to receive a transmission status signal indicative of a transmission mode for the vehicle. The communication device is further configured to transmit the transmission status signal over a wireless protocol to the OCD such that the OCD is disabled from being controlled by switches positioned thereon if the transmission mode enables movement of the vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08775020&OS=08775020&RS=08775020
owner: Ford Global Technologies, LLC
number: 08775020
owner_city: Dearborn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100507
---
This application is the U.S. national phase of PCT Appln. No. PCT US2010 034030 filed May 7 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 61 231 625 filed Aug. 5 2009 the disclosures of which are incorporated in their entirety by reference herein.

The embodiments described herein generally relate to among other things a system and method for transmitting vehicle information to an occupant communication device OCD in a vehicle.

The use of portable communication devices in a vehicle has become widespread. Such devices may be used while the vehicle is being driven. Often times the driver may be distracted and take his her eyes off the road while trying to control the communication device. This condition may increase the risk of driving accidents.

In at least one embodiment an apparatus for transmitting vehicle information to an occupant communication device OCD is provided. The system comprises a communication module positioned within the vehicle. The communication device is configured to receive a transmission status signal indicative of a transmission mode for the vehicle. The communication device is further configured to transmit the transmission status signal over a wireless protocol to the OCD such that the OCD is disabled from being controlled by switches positioned thereon if the transmission mode enables movement of the vehicle.

Various embodiments of the present invention may enable the transmission of vehicle data to an occupant communication device such as a cell phone text messaging device or other suitable device that enables user input e.g. button selection or voice input to transmit data to another communication device. The OCD may use the vehicle information to control the manner in which data is input therein by a vehicle occupant.

Various embodiments of the present invention may identify the driver of the vehicle whereby primary and secondary drivers are determined and various levels of control are granted to the driver based on whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. In general the primary driver e.g. a parent employer consumer of valet services or fleet vehicle owner may be defined as the administrative driver who has greater control over the functionality of the various features e.g. safety features and or safety notification features in the vehicle. For example the primary driver may enable or disable the various features in the vehicle. The secondary driver may be defined as a restricted driver who has limited control in enabling and disabling features generally provided by the vehicle and is to abide by the functional restrictions imposed or selected by the vehicle or the primary driver. For example the primary driver may enable the features for the secondary driver and the secondary driver is not capable of disabling such features when enabled by the primary driver. In one example the secondary driver may be permitted to use the OCD while driving however the secondary driver may not be permitted to select buttons switches positioned on the OCD to control the OCD. In this example the secondary driver may use voice input to control the OCD.

It is contemplated that the embodiments set forth herein may be utilized for purposes other than those described and that challenges or problems noted herein are not intended to be an exhaustive list of problems that may be overcome by the embodiments of the present invention. Such challenges or problems are noted for illustrative purposes and that all of the challenges or problems that may be overcome by the various embodiments of the present invention are not described for purposes of brevity. Moreover it is contemplated that the embodiments described herein may provide for a number of advantages or benefits and that those noted herein are not intended to be an exhaustive list that may be achieved. Such advantages disclosed herein are noted for illustrative purposes and that all of the advantages achieved by the embodiments of the present invention are not described for purposes of brevity as well. Furthermore the examples provided herein are disclosed for illustrative purposes and are not intended to limit the scope in any manner.

The embodiments of the present invention as set forth in generally illustrate and describe a plurality of controllers or modules devices or other electrically based components. All references to the various controllers and electrically based components and the functionality provided for each are not intended to be limited to encompassing only what is illustrated and described herein. While particular labels may be assigned to the various controllers and or electrical components disclosed such labels are not intended to limit the scope of operation for the controllers and or the electrical components. The controllers may be combined with each other and or separated in any manner based on the particular type of electrical architecture that is desired in the vehicle. It is generally recognized that each controller and or module disclosed herein may include but not limited to any number of microprocessors ICs memory devices e.g. FLASH RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM or other suitable variants thereof and software which co act with one another to perform the various functions set forth below.

The device also includes a plurality of switches a voice recognition command interface chimes and voice output capability . The driver may toggle the switches to view different messages and or select various options. The voice recognition command interface may enable the vehicle to receive commands from the driver so that the driver may audibly input commands and or responses. One example of a voice recognition command interface is disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication No. 20040143440 the 440 publication entitled Vehicle Speech Recognition System filed Dec. 31 2003.

The chimes may audibly notify the driver when predetermined vehicle conditions have been met. In one example the device may activate the chimes when the vehicle is near a top speed the vehicle has achieved a top speed the vehicle has exceeded the top speed there is a low level of fuel in the fuel tank when the traction control is enabled to notify the driver to pair the OCD to the APIM and or to notify the driver that his her driving performance has degraded while using the OCD . In one example the voice output capability enables the device to transmit audio signals to the driver in the manner but not limited to that described in the 440 publication. While the display the switches the voice input command interface chimes and the voice output capability are shown within the device it is contemplated that one or more of these mechanisms may be positioned exterior to the device .

The device the PATS controller the body electronics controller and the APIM may communicate with one another via a data communication bus or link . The communication bus may be implemented as a High Medium Speed Controller Area Network CAN bus a Local Interconnect Network LIN or other suitable data communication bus that is generally situated to facilitate data transfer therethrough. The particular type of bus used may vary based on the desired criteria of a particular implementation.

The body electronics controller generally controls a portion or all of the electrical content in an interior section of the vehicle. In one example the body electronics controller may be a smart power distribution junction box SPDJB controller. The SPDJB controller may include a plurality of fuses relays and various micro controllers for performing any number of functions related to the operation of interior and or exterior electrically based functionality. These functions may include but not limited to electronic locking unlocking via interior door lock unlock switches remote keyless entry operation vehicle lighting interior and or exterior electronic power windows and or key ignition status e.g. Off Run Start and Accessory ACCY .

An ignition switch may be operably coupled to the body electronics controller . The body electronics controller may receive hardwired signals indicative of the position of the ignition switch and transmit data messages on the data communication bus that are indicative of the position of the ignition switch. For example the body electronics controller may transmit a signal IGN SW STS e.g. whether the ignition is in the OFF Run Start or Accessory ACCY positions over the data communication bus to the device . The signal IGN SW STS corresponds to the position of the ignition switch e.g. Off Run Start or Accessory positions .

The ignition switch may receive keys to start the vehicle. Each key includes an ignition key device embedded therein for communicating with the vehicle. The ignition key device may be in the form of a transponder that includes an integrated circuit and an antenna. The transponder is adapted to transmit an electronic code via an RF signal as a signal DRIVER STATUS to a receiver not shown in the PATS controller . The signal DRIVER STATUS may be indicative of which driver e.g. primary or secondary is driving the vehicle. The signal DRIVER STATUS may be in the form of a radio frequency RF based signal or a radio frequency identification RFID tag that corresponds to binary data. The PATS controller determines if the RF based data in the signal DRIVER STATUS matches predetermined data stored therein e.g. in a look up table of the PATS controller prior to allowing the vehicle to start for anti theft purposes. In the event the RF based data matches the predetermined data a powertrain control module PCM or engine controller operably coupled to the PATS controller enables an engine not shown to start. In general the vehicle assembly plant supplier facility e.g. manufacturer of the keys and or PATS controller car dealership or vehicle owner performs the operation of learning the data transmitted by the keys . The PATS controller may also use the data on the signal DRIVER STATUS for purposes of identifying whether the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver or the secondary driver.

The PATS controller may transmit a signal DRIVER STATUS  to the device to indicate whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. Prior to the PATS controller transmitting the signal DRIVER STATUS  the keys need to be programmed as a primary key or as a secondary key. The manner in which the keys are designated as either a primary key or a secondary key is set forth in the following U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 139 005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROGRAMMING KEYS TO VEHICLE TO ESTABLISH PRIMARY AND SECONDARY DRIVERS and filed on Jun. 13 2008 and Ser. No. 12 433 642 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ASSIGNING DRIVER STATUS TO A SPARE KEY AND FOR PROGRAMMING THE SPARE KEY TO A VEHICLE and filed on Apr. 30 2009 which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The PATS controller and or the vehicle interface device may transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS  to functional controller s e.g. controller or module in the electrical system such that the functionality or operation performed by a particular controller or module may be controlled based on the driver status e.g. primary driver or secondary driver . For example seat belt minder fuel level indicator reverse park aid object detection and traction control as found in U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 026 582 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING A SAFETY RESTRAINT STATUS BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 Ser. No. 12 026 857 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING EARLY LOW FUEL WARNING BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 Ser. No. 12 026 867 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING ELECTRONIC STABILITY CONTROL BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 and Ser. No. 12 026 872 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR CONTROLLING OBJECT DETECTION BASED ON DRIVER STATUS and filed on Feb. 6 2008 all of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety and are illustrative of the types of functionality or operations that may be controlled based on the driver status of the vehicle.

An additional example may include the primary driver turning on a hands free operation for the secondary driver. In this case the primary driver may enable the hands free operation such that the secondary driver is precluded from inputting data via the switches on the OCD when the vehicle is moving. In this instance the secondary driver is forced to control or generate the OCD by voice input via the APIM . The primary driver may enable disable this feature for the secondary driver via the switches or voice command on the device . In particular the secondary driver may not be able to disable the seatbelt minder feature the reverse park feature the object detection feature the traction control feature and the hands free operation. It is contemplated that any number of operations may be controlled based on driver status and that those listed herein are simply noted for illustrative purposes.

The PCM transmits a signal TRANS STATUS which indicates the transmission status of the vehicle. For example the signal TRANS STATUS may indicate whether the transmission is in park drive reverse neutral or lock e.g. the vehicle is locked in a first gear . The PCM also transmits a signal VEH SPEED which indicates that speed at which the vehicle is being driven. The PCM transmits the signals TRANS STATUS and VEH SPEED over the communication bus to the device . The device in turn transmits the signals TRANS STATUS and VEH SPEED to the APIM over the communication bus. The relevance the APIM receiving the signals TRANS STATUS and VEH SPEED will be discussed in more detail below.

A lane departure warning LDW module is operably coupled to the device . The LDW module may include a forward pointing camera not shown to determine what side of the vehicle is deviating from a lane or crossing over the lane to issue a warning. The LDW module transmits a signal LDW EVENTS to the device so that the device generates an audible and or visual warning for the driver.

The LDW module is also configured to detect a shift in the driver s performance that may cause the vehicle to leave a lane or head off of the road. For example the LDW module measures a Driver s Impairment Monitor DIMON and assigns a rating to it. The DIMON tracks vehicle variation within the lane. In general the LDW module monitors the DIMON to detect a shift in the driver s performance that may be attributed to the driver exhibiting a drowsy or sleepy condition or a distraction that may be attributed to among other things cell phone operation while driving. In the event the DIMON rating is below a predetermined threshold the LDW module may transmit the DIMON rating on a signal DIMON to the device . The device compares the rating on the signal DIMON to a predetermined value. If the DIMON rating is less than the predetermined value then the device may visually and or audibly notify the driver that his her performance has degraded. The visual or audible notice is generated at a point in time to allow the user to regain control of the vehicle at an early stage so that the driver can avoid inadvertently veering off the road or other failure mode. For example the LDW module may transmit a value between 1 and 6 on the signal DIMON that corresponds to the DIMON rating. In the event the value indicated on the signal DIMON is 3 or less such a value may be indicative of a poor driving performance or that the vehicle is exhibiting a wide variation between lines of a lane . If the device determines that the value on the signal DIMON is less than 3 then the device may trigger the warning for the driver.

The device may record the number of LDW events and or DIMON events that were generated for the secondary driver. The device may transmit a signal REPORT that is indicative of the recorded number of LDW and or DIMON events for the secondary driver to the APIM . In general the device may record a number of events including but not limited to the recorded number of LDW and or DIMON events such as those events as set forth in co pending International Application No PCT US09 48612 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR RECORDING VEHICLE EVENTS AND FOR GENERATING REPORTS CORRESPONDING TO THE RECORDED VEHICLE EVENTS BASED ON DRIVER STATUS filed on Jun. 25 2009 which is hereby incorporated in reference in its entirety.

An ESC module is operably coupled to the device . The ESC module is adapted to control the operation of various electronic stability control ESC systems such as traction control TC yaw stability control YSC and rollover stability control RSC . The ESC module may include a TC controller not shown a YSC controller not shown and a RSC controller not shown . In general the ESC module transmits a signal ESC EVENT that corresponds to a single event in which the ESC module has had to among other things adjust the yaw angle of the vehicle correct the speed of the vehicle and or apply the brakes of the vehicle to correct the movement of the vehicle. Generally these factors may indicate the loss of vehicle control that may have occurred while the vehicle is being driven. Such potential collision events may reflect on the driving performance of a particular driver. The ESC module transmits the signal ESC EVENT to the device .

A restraint control module RCM is operably coupled to the device . The RCM may deploy various safety restraint systems in response to the vehicle experiencing an impact with an object. For example the RCM may deploy one or more airbags positioned about the vehicle motorized pretensioners and or seat controls to reduce the risk of injury to vehicle occupants in the event the vehicle experiences an impact. The RCM may be operably coupled to sensors in the vehicle that enable the RCM to measure roll yaw and pitch rates associated with the vehicle. The RCM may use the roll yaw and pitch to detect various near miss events such near miss events may also be defined as potential collision events. Near miss events generally include a sudden loss in speed and acceleration data such as the roll yaw and pitch or other high energy events. Such near miss events may not include the occurrence of an actual collision e.g. actual deployment of airbag . The RCM is configured to detect near miss events and transmit data indicating the presence of such over a signal NEAR MISS to the device . In general the RCM is configured to provide similar information to that of the ESC module and is provided in the event the vehicle is not equipped with the advanced active safety systems of the ESC module .

An adaptive cruise control ACC module is operably coupled to the device . The ACC module is generally configured to detect when the vehicle may be on a path that leads to a forward collision FC . The ACC module is operably coupled to radars not shown to detect the presence proximity of a vehicle that may engage in a forward collision with the vehicle. The device generally issues warnings audible and or visual to the driver in the event the vehicle is detected to be on course or on a path that may lead to a forward collision so that the driver can take corrective action. In the event the ACC module detects that the vehicle is on a path that may lead to a forward collision the ACC module transmits a signal FCW EVENT to the device so that the device triggers an alert.

The ACC module may also detect whether the vehicle is in a tailgating mode with respect to a vehicle positioned ahead of the current vehicle. The ACC module uses the radars to determine whether the vehicle is in the tailgating mode. It is known in the art to use radars to detect the proximity of the vehicle. Such features will not be described further. The device issues a warning audible and or visual to the driver in the event the vehicle is detected to be tailgating another vehicle. The alert notifies the driver that the vehicle may be too close to the forward vehicle. In the event the vehicle is detected to be in the tailgating mode with respect to a forwardly positioned vehicle the ACC module transmits a signal TAILGATE to the device so that the device triggers an alert. The FCW and tailgate warning may be issued once the vehicle is detected to be traveling above a predetermined vehicle speed. For example the ACC module may monitor for FCW and tailgate events if the vehicle speed is above mph or other suitable vehicle speed. The particular speed threshold for monitoring FCW and tailgate events may vary.

A blind spot monitoring BSM module is operably coupled to the device . The BSM module is configured to determine whether a vehicle is in or entering into a detection zone to either side e.g. left or right side of the vehicle. The BSM module provides an alert to the driver when a vehicle is overtaking the subject vehicle i.e. the vehicle referenced to include the BSM module or is stagnating within the detection zone. The BSM module transmits a signal BSM to the device so that the device generates a warning e.g. audible and or visual to the driver. The warning is intended to notify the driver that a vehicle is located in the detection zone of the target vehicle.

In general the device uses the signal LDW and the signal BSM to monitor for space management events. For example the LDW module is configured to trigger and event if the vehicle departs from either a left or right side of the lane and the BSM module provides an alert to notify the driver that a vehicle is in the detection zone. The device uses such alerts to monitor for space management events. The triggering of both a BSM event and a LDW event may be indicative of a poor driving performance.

The APIM or communication module is operably coupled to the device . The APIM is configured to receive the OCD . The APIM is generally part of an in vehicle communication system which interfaces with the OCD to enable voice input control to perform a function with the OCD so that the driver does not have to enter data via buttons located directly on the OCD . The APIM may also interface with switches not shown positioned throughout the vehicle to enable touch selection control to perform a function with the OCD so that the driver does not have to enter data directly via switches on the OCD . The OCD is wirelessly coupled to the APIM . The OCD may also include a display . In one example the APIM may be implemented as part of the SYNC system developed by Ford Motor Company and Microsoft . The OCD may include any number of communication devices that use a wireless protocol . For example one such wireless protocol may include Bluetooth or other suitable protocols. The OCD may use any protocol that is generally situated to facilitate wireless communication. The APIM may wirelessly transmit a number of vehicle related signals to the OCD . This will be explained in more detail below.

In general the OCD may be a phone a text messaging device a music generating device such as a phone that plays MP3 songs whereby all of such items use the Bluetooth protocol to communicate. In yet another example the OCD may include other devices such as Universal Serial Bus USB based music playback devices e.g. Zune and iPod by Apple . In yet another example the OCD may include a link that is hardwired coupled into a line in input provided on the APIM . Such a link may receive an input from music playback device to transmit audio via speakers in the vehicle.

The APIM enables the driver to perform functions with the OCD by receiving voice input commands or touch selection via the switch so that the driver does not have to enter various selections directly with the OCD via the switches . It is generally preferable that drivers avoid entering data or making selections via the switches positioned directly on the OCD . It is known that a driver may be distracted while driving when manually inputting data or selecting data via the switches located directly on the OCD . Such distractions may be avoided if the driver controls the OCD via the voice command capability or the switch selection features offered by the vehicle. The APIM may recognize any number of voice inputs to control the OCDs to perform a particular function e.g. place phone call dial a particular number adjust volume turn on off OCD or any other foreseeable operation generally performed by the particular OCD . In addition an occupant may enter data e.g. the actual phone number or actual text as a voice input followed by a command to dial the number via voice input. The driver via the switches may also perform one or more of the operations noted directly above.

In general the APIM provides a mechanism for enabling the primary driver or the secondary driver to control the OCD so that the driver is not required to perform selections via the switches buttons positioned directly on the OCD . In order for the driver to use voice command capability or the switch selection features offered by the APIM and or the switches on the vehicle it is necessary for the driver to electronically couple or pair mate his her OCD to the APIM to enable the primary or secondary driver to control the OCD via the voice control or switch selection on the vehicle. In general if the OCD is not paired to the APIM then the APIM may not be able to transmit vehicle information to the OCD via the wireless protocol . The driver may if desired choose not to couple or pair his her OCD to the APIM . The APIM transmits a signal PAIR STATUS to the device which is indicative of whether the driver has paired his her OCD to the APIM .

The APIM is configured to also monitor when a call occurred and the length of call performed by the secondary driver. The APIM transmits a signal OCD USAGE to the device . The signal OCD USAGE corresponds to the time in which a call took place and the amount of time a particular driver used the OCD .

The device may generate a report that details various recorded events and profiles for the secondary driver and transmit the same over a signal REPORT to the APIM . Such recorded events may include but not limited to vehicle speed lane departures OCD usage and pair status. The APIM may wirelessly transmit the report over an output link via any OCD to be uploaded into a server not shown so that the primary driver can review the same over a computer. Methods that can be used to wirelessly transmit data from the vehicle with the link may include but not limited to voice over data such as but not limited to services provided by Airbiquity data channels provided on OCD or Wifi . Alternatively a USB port or other suitable communication port may be positioned in the vehicle so that the primary driver can download the report and profiles generated for the secondary driver as desired.

As also noted above the device may include a display so that the reports and corresponding usage profiles can be viewed therefrom. In addition the device can co act with the APIM to provide automated e mails to the primary driver or the secondary driver that contain the event reports after a corresponding report is generated. The primary driver and or the secondary driver can setup an automated e mail generation via the device .

In addition to the device transmitting the signal REPORT to the APIM the device may also transmit the signals DRIVER STATUS  TRANS STATUS and VEH SPEED to the APIM . The APIM is configured to wirelessly transmit a number of signals that provide vehicle level information to the OCD via the wireless protocol . The OCD is generally capable of controlling the manner in which data is received based on the vehicle level information received from the APIM . For example the APIM may transmit the signals TRANS STATUS and VEH SPEED to the OCD . In turn in the event the OCD determines that the vehicle is traveling over a predetermined speed e.g. 0 mph and or that the transmission status for the vehicle is in a non park mode e.g. vehicle in reverse neutral drive or locked first gear the OCD may prevent the driver from manually inputting data via the switches located directly on the OCD . In this example the driver may input data into the OCD through voice command e.g. hands free operation as enabled via the APIM or switches positioned throughout the vehicle. The driver can verbally command the OCD to dial a particular number contact hang up etc. The driver can also engage in a conversation with the other party without having to hold the OCD or place the OCD close to the driver. In the hands free operation the driver may communicate via a microphone not shown in the vehicle and listen to the other party. The dialog between the driver and the other party on the line is broadcast via speakers not shown in the vehicle. In the hands free operation the APIM transmits a signal VOICE COMMAND over the wireless protocol to the OCD such that the OCD performs a function as specified on the signal VOICE COMMAND. In one example the signal VOICE COMMAND may be translated data that is generated by the APIM . In another example the signal VOICE COMMAND may be the actual voice command that is generated by the driver and transmitted to the OCD so that the OCD performs the data translation.

The OCD may be arranged such that the hands free operation is automatically enabled in response to determining that the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver. In this example the APIM wirelessly transmits the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the OCD over the wireless protocol so that the OCD determines whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. In response to determining that the signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to the secondary driver the OCD may force the hands free operation on so that the secondary driver is not permitted to manually select switches on the OCD . The OCD may enable the primary driver to select the switches thereon in order to use the OCD .

In one example the OCD may be arranged to force the hands free operation for any driver e.g. irrespective of whether the driver is the primary or the secondary driver . In another example the OCD may be arranged to determine primary and secondary drivers and control the manner in which data is entered thereon based on driver status. The method used by the OCD to force the hands free operation for drivers may vary to meet the desired criteria of a particular implementation.

The driver may have the option of selecting a privacy mode while the driver is performing the hands free operation so that other occupants in the vehicle are not able to hear a conversation between the driver and the other party. For example while the driver is in the hands free mode the conversation between the driver and the other party on another phone is broadcast over the speakers in the vehicle. In the event the driver does not want other occupants in the vehicle to hear a portion of the conversation the driver may select via a switch positioned on the APIM or elsewhere in the vehicle to enable the privacy mode. The privacy mode removes the conversation from being broadcast to the occupants in the vehicle. In the privacy mode the driver may pick up and use the OCD in its normal operating mode. If the driver selects the privacy mode operation the APIM may transmit a signal PRIVACY MODE to the OCD so that the OCD removes the hands free option for the driver and enables the normal use of the OCD .

The APIM receives a signal DRIVER PERF to monitor the driving behavior of the driver. The signal DRIVER PERF generally includes all information included from the signals ESC EVENTS NEAR MISS FCW EVENTS TAILGATE DIMON LDW EVENTS and BSM EVENTS. For example in the event the driver is engaged in a private conversation over the OCD and the signal DRIVER PERF indicates that the driver s performance has degraded based on one or more of detected FCW events near miss events ESC events tailgate events BSM events LDW events or DIMON ratings the APIM may terminate the privacy mode and the OCD resumes the hands free operation. In the event the APIM determines that the driver s performance has degraded based on the factors provided above and the APIM determines that the driver is using the OCD the APIM may transmit a signal WARNING to the device . The device may audibly or visually issue a warning to the driver. The OCD may transmit a signal OCD IN USE to the APIM so that the APIM has knowledge that the occupant is using the OCD . In one example the APIM may determine that the driver is using the OCD if the driver selects the switch to enter into the privacy mode.

In general the PEPS function is a keyless access and start system. The driver may own two or more keys that may be in the form of an electronic transmission device e.g. a key fob . With the PEPS implementation the user is not required to use a mechanical key blade to open the door of the vehicle or start an engine of the vehicle. The key may include a mechanical key to ensure that the driver can access and start the vehicle in the event the key exhibits low battery power. The keys each include an ignition key device embedded within for communicating with the PEP controller . The ignition key device may be in the form of a transponder that includes an integrated circuit and an antenna. The transponder of the ignition key device is configured to transmit the signal DRIVER STATUS as an RF signal to a receiver not shown in the PEPS controller . The signal DRIVER STATUS may be indicative of which driver e.g. primary or secondary is driving the vehicle. To gain access or entry into the vehicle with the keys the driver may need to wake up the PEPS controller to establish bi directional communication between the keys and the PEP controller . In one example the wake up may occur by requiring the driver to touch and or pull the door handle of the vehicle. In response to the door handle being toggled or touched the PEPS controller may wake up and transmit RF based signals to the key .

The PEPS controller and the key may undergo a series of communications back and forth to each other e.g. handshaking for vehicle access authentication purposes. The PEPS controller may unlock the doors in response to a successful completion of the handshaking process. Once the driver is in the vehicle the driver may simply press a button positioned on an instrument panel and brake pedal to start the vehicle. The driver may only press the button to place the vehicle into an accessory mode.

In one example the system may be adapted to tag or associate the keys as either a primary or a secondary key during a learn operation as discussed with the PATS controller . In yet another example the system may be configured to associate the keys as primary or secondary keys in the manner identified and disclosed in one or more of the following U.S. patent Ser. No. 12 139 005 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROGRAMMING KEYS TO VEHICLE TO ESTABLISH PRIMARY AND SECONDARY DRIVERS and filed on Jun. 13 2008 and Ser. No. 12 433 642 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ASSIGNING DRIVER STATUS TO A SPARE KEY AND FOR PROGRAMMING THE SPARE KEY TO A VEHICLE and filed on Apr. 30 2009. The PEPS controller may determine the driver status based on the information indicated on the signal DRIVER STATUS as noted in connection with the system of .

The PEPS controller is adapted to provide the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the various controllers over the communication bus. The signal DRIVER STATUS  corresponds to whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver. The PEPS controller may also transmit the signal IGN SW STS to the device . The PEPS controller determines that the key ignition status is in the run position in response to the driver toggling the brake pedal not shown and depressing the start switch. In this case the vehicle is started and the PEPS controller transmits the signal IGN SW STS as being in the run state. In the event the driver selects only the start button the PEPS controller transmits the signal IGN SW STS as being in the accessory state.

While generally disclose keys and that are used in connection with the PATS and PEPS implementations respectively it is generally contemplated that the keys may be implemented as a cell phone e.g. the OCD or other suitable switch device used to authenticate the driver to the vehicle for enabling entry into the vehicle or for starting the vehicle. Data transmitted from the cell phone may be received by a receiver not shown on the vehicle and decoded to perform driver authentication for gaining entry into the vehicle starting the vehicle and ascertaining driver status. In general the APIM as implemented in connection with may operate in a similar manner to that disclosed in connection with .

In operation the APIM determines whether an OCD is in the vehicle. For example the APIM determines whether the OCD is in the vehicle by monitoring whether a valid connection can be made with the OCD via the wireless protocol . If an OCD is not in the vehicle the method moves to operation . If the OCD is in the vehicle then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal WARNING to the device . The device may warn the driver of the dangers associated with manual operation of the OCD while driving.

In operation the APIM determines whether the OCD that is detected in the vehicle is paired to the APIM . For example the driver may electronically configure his her OCD to recognize the APIM as a trusted device. Various phone lists and or other information stored in the OCD can be stored as personal settings within the APIM at the time the OCD is paired to the APIM .

The APIM is capable of transmitting the vehicle information to the OCD if the OCD is paired to the APIM .

If the APIM determines that the OCD is not paired thereto then the method moves back to operation . If the APIM determines that the OCD is paired thereto then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal PAIR STATUS that indicates that the OCD is not paired to the APIM . In response the device may transmit a visual or audible warning and request the driver to pair his her OCD to the APIM .

In operation the APIM determines whether the vehicle is moving by i comparing vehicle speed against a predetermined vehicle speed e.g. 3 kph or other suitable value and or ii determining whether the vehicle is in gear e.g. a non park gear that allows the vehicle to move such as the reverse neutral drive or lock in first gear. Monitoring vehicle speed may be useful for vehicles that are not equipped with an automatic transmission.

In the event the vehicle speed is below the predetermined vehicle speed or the vehicle is not in a gear that allows the vehicle to move then the method remains in operation . If the vehicle speed is above the predetermined vehicle speed or the vehicle is in a gear that enables the vehicle to move then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal VEH SPEED and or the signal TRANS STATUS to the OCD . For example after the APIM determines that the vehicle speed has exceeded the predetermined vehicle speed the APIM may include a one bit value on the signal VEH SPEED and transmit to the OCD . Likewise in the event the APIM determines that the vehicle is in a gear that enables the vehicle to move the APIM may include a one bit value on the signal TRANS STATUS and transmit to the OCD .

In operation the OCD receives the signal VEH SPEED and or TRANS STATUS from the APIM . The OCD monitors the status of whether the vehicle is above the predetermined vehicle speed and or whether the vehicle is in a non park mode based on the data included on the signals VEH SPEED and TRANS STATUS.

In operation the OCD imposes restrictions on the usage of the OCD in the event the signal VEH SPEED indicates that vehicle speed is above the predetermined vehicle speed and or the signal TRANS STATUS indicates the vehicle is in a non park mode. It is contemplated that the OCD may also receive the actual vehicle speed and or transmission status from the APIM and make the determination as to whether the vehicle speed is above the predetermined vehicle speed and or the transmission status is in the non park mode as opposed to such operations being performed by the APIM . Restrictions on usage may include but not limited to force on hands free operation e.g. prevent driver from manually pushing switches on the OCD to prevent texting e mail use internet access or other activity on the OCD that may distract the driver and or filtering phone calls e.g. only outgoing calls to emergency personnel parents or other close family members or prevent incoming calls except for those that belong to emergency personnel or parents etc. In the event the hands free operation is imposed by the OCD the OCD may provide an optional display thereon to indicate that the OCD is in a hands free operation. For example the display of the OCD may include the text USE HANDS FREE OPERATION WHILE DRIVING .

In operation the OCD determines whether the APIM is still connected thereto by monitoring the wireless protocol . If the OCD determines that the wireless protocol is disconnected or unable to facilitate communication with the APIM then the method stops. At this point the method may be resumed again. If the OCD determines that the wireless protocol is connected or able to facilitate communication with the APIM then the method moves back to operation .

In operation the APIM determines whether an OCD is in the vehicle. For example the APIM determines whether a valid connection can be made with the OCD via the wireless protocol . If the OCD is not in the vehicle the method moves to operation . If the OCD is in the vehicle the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal WARNING to the device . The device may warn the driver of the dangers associated with manual operation of the OCD while driving.

In operation the APIM determines whether the OCD is paired thereto. If the APIM determines that the OCD is not paired thereto then the method moves to operation . If the APIM determines that the OCD is paired thereto then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal PAIR STATUS that indicates that the OCD is not paired to the APIM . In response the device may transmit a visual or audible warning and request the driver to pair his her OCD to the APIM . The device may also transmit a visual or audible warning to the driver regarding the dangers of manual operation of the OCD while driving the vehicle.

In operation the APIM receives the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the device . The APIM transmits the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the OCD over the wireless protocol so that the OCD has knowledge as to the identity of the driver. For example the OCD may impose restrictions in the event the signal DRIVER STATUS  indicates that the driver is a secondary driver. It is contemplated that the APIM may continuously or periodically transmit driver identity in real time to the OCD .

In operation the APIM determines whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver based on the information included on the signal DRIVER STATUS . If the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver then the method remains in operation and there are no restrictions imposed on the primary driver based on the vehicle information. If the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM determines whether the vehicle is moving by i comparing vehicle speed against a predetermined vehicle speed e.g. 3 kph or other suitable value and or ii determining whether the vehicle is in gear e.g. a non park gear that allows the vehicle to move such as the reverse neutral drive or lock in first gear. Monitoring vehicle speed may be useful for vehicles that are not equipped with an automatic transmission. It is contemplated that the APIM transmits the vehicle speed and or the transmission status continuously or periodically in real time to the OCD .

In the event the vehicle speed is below the predetermined vehicle speed or the vehicle is not in a gear that allows the vehicle to move then the method remains in operation . If the vehicle speed is above the predetermined vehicle speed or the vehicle is in a gear that enables the vehicle to move then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal TRANS STATUS and or VEH SPEED. For example after the APIM determines that the vehicle speed has exceeded the predetermined vehicle speed the APIM may include a one bit value on the signal VEH SPEED and send to the OCD . Likewise in the event the APIM determines that the vehicle is in a gear that enables the vehicle to move the APIM may include a one bit value on the signal TRANS SPEED and transmit to the OCD . The APIM also transmits the signal DRIVER STATUS  to the OCD in the event the driver is detected to be the secondary driver.

In operation the OCD receives the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the APIM which indicates that the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver. It is contemplated that the OCD imposes restrictions only on the secondary driver so long as the vehicle speed and or transmission status criteria is met.

In operation the OCD receives the signal VEH SPEED and or TRANS STATUS from the APIM . The OCD monitors the status of whether the vehicle is above the predetermined vehicle speed or whether the vehicle is in a non park mode based on the data included on the signals VEH SPEED and TRANS STATUS.

In operation the OCD imposes restrictions on the usage of the OCD in the event the driver is above the predetermined vehicle speed and or the signal TRANS SPEED indicates that the vehicle is in the non park mode. It is contemplated that the OCD may also receive the actual vehicle speed and or transmission status from the APIM and make the determination as to whether the vehicle speed is above the predetermined vehicle speed or whether the vehicle is in the non park mode as opposed to such operations being performed by the APIM . Likewise the APIM may also make such a determination regarding driver identity e.g. primary driver or secondary driver . Restrictions on usage may include but not limited to force on hands free operation e.g. prevent driver from manually pushing switches on the OCD to prevent texting e mail use internet access and or other activity on the OCD that may distract the driver filtering phone calls e.g. only outgoing calls to emergency personnel parents or other close family members or prevent incoming calls except for those that belong to emergency personnel or parents etc. In the event the hands free operation is imposed by the OCD the display of the OCD may indicate that the OCD is in a hands free operation. For example the display may depict USE HANDS FREE OPERATION WHILE DRIVING .

In operation the OCD determines whether the APIM is still connected thereto by monitoring the wireless protocol . If the OCD determines that the wireless protocol is disconnected or unable to facilitate communication with the APIM then the method stops. At this point the method may be resumed again. If the OCD determines that the wireless protocol is connected or able to facilitate communication with the APIM then the method moves back to operation .

In operation the APIM determines whether an OCD is in the vehicle. For example the APIM determines whether the OCD is in the vehicle by monitoring whether a valid connection can be made with the OCD via the wireless protocol . If an OCD is not in the vehicle the method moves to operation . If the OCD is in the vehicle then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal WARNING to the device . The device may warn the driver of the dangers associated with manual operation of the OCD while driving.

In operation the APIM determines whether the OCD that is detected in the vehicle is paired to the APIM . For example the driver may electronically configure his her OCD to the APIM so that the APIM recognizes that the OCD as a trusted device. Various phone lists and or other information stored in the OCD can be stored as personal settings within the APIM at the time the OCD is paired to the APIM . The APIM is capable of transmitting the vehicle information to the OCD if the OCD is paired to the APIM .

If the APIM determines that the OCD is not paired thereto then the method moves back to operation . If the APIM determines that the OCD is paired thereto then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal PAIR STATUS that indicates that the OCD is not paired to the APIM . In response the device may transmit a visual or audible warning and request the driver to pair his her OCD to the APIM .

In operation the APIM determines whether the OCD is in use. For example the APIM may determine whether the APIM is being used based on the data indicated on the signal OCD IN USE. If the APIM determines that the OCD is not in use the method remains in operation . If the APIM determines that the OCD is in use then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM determines whether the driver of the vehicle has selected the privacy mode option. As noted above the driver may select a switch positioned on the APIM or elsewhere in the vehicle to enter into the privacy mode. The privacy mode may return the conversation that is being held between the driver and the other participant into a private conversation. In this mode the driver may speak directly into the microphone of the OCD and privately hear the other participant s comments through the OCD so that the remaining occupants in the vehicle cannot hear the conversation. This feature may be available for the primary driver and or the secondary driver. In some embodiments the privacy mode feature may be configurable by the primary driver. Meaning the primary driver may selectively enable disable this feature via the switches voice command or other suitable devices that cooperate with the device for the secondary driver. If the primary driver disables the privacy mode feature then the secondary driver is not capable of engaging in a private conversation with another participant to ensure that the secondary driver is not distracted while driving when attempting to manipulate the switches of the OCD .

If the APIM determines that the driver has not selected the privacy mode feature then the method remains in operation . If the APIM determines that the driver has selected the privacy mode then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal PRIVACY MODE to the OCD . In response the OCD operates in a normal operating mode which allows the driver to speak into the microphone and the driver to hear the other participant from a speaker included therein e.g. the driver is able to manually use the OCD .

In operation the APIM determines whether the driver s performance while in the privacy mode is adequate by monitoring the signal DRIVER PERF that includes the signals DIMON LDW EVENTS ESC EVENTS NEAR MISS FCW EVENTS TAILGATE and or BSM EVENTS. If the APIM determines that the driver s performance is adequate e.g. acceptable DIMON ratings and or no LDW ESC NEAR MISS TAILGATE and or BSM events then the method moves back to operation to determine if the privacy mode is still engaged. If the APIM determines that the driver s performance is not adequate e.g. non acceptable DIMON ratings and or the existence of LDW ESC NEAR MISS TAILGATE and or BSM events then the method moves to operation . Such a condition may indicate among other things that the driving performance is poor while the driver is using the OCD . The signal BSM EVENTS is included on the signal DRIVER PERF however it is recognized that a blind spot monitoring event may not be caused by the driver but another vehicle. Nonetheless it may be necessary to warn the driver and terminate the privacy mode.

In operation the APIM terminates the privacy mode. For example the APIM may provide a command on the signal PRIVACY MODE to terminate the privacy mode and transmit the same to the OCD . The OCD may in response to the signal PRIVACY MODE force on the hands free operation or terminate the call altogether.

In operation the APIM transmits the signal WARNING to the device so that the device visually or audibly warns the driver about the driving performance concern. The device may also record the poor performance event and provide the same on the signal REPORT so that such data is capable of being viewed by the primary driver.

In operation the OCD transmits the signal OCD IN USE to the APIM over the wireless protocol . The signal OCD IN USE may be indicative of the driver being engaged in a conversation with another participant with the OCD .

In operation the OCD receives the signal PRIVACY MODE over the wireless protocol from the APIM . The signal PRIVACY MODE may be indicative of a command from the driver to notify the OCD that the driver desires a private conversation with the other participant.

In operation the OCD enables the driver to select switches thereon to control the OCD in the manner desired by the driver. In this case the OCD is not in a hands free mode and the driver resumes normal operation over the OCD .

In operation the OCD determines whether the driver intends to remain in the privacy mode. For example the OCD monitors the signal PRIVACY MODE to determine if the privacy mode feature is to be deactivated. In this case the privacy mode feature may be deactivated by the driver or is to be deactivated in response to the driver exhibiting a poor driving condition as detected by LDW module .

If the OCD determines that the privacy mode is to remain active then the method moves to operation . If the OCD determines that the privacy mode is to be deactivated then the method moves to operation .

In operation the OCD disables control of the switches . In another example the OCD may terminate the call altogether in the event the driver is exhibiting a poor driving performance. For example the APIM may transmit a control signal to the OCD to command the OCD to simply terminate the call.

In operation the APIM determines whether an OCD is in the vehicle. For example the APIM determines whether a valid connection can be made with the OCD via the wireless protocol . If the OCD is not in the vehicle the method moves to operation . If the OCD is in the vehicle the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal WARNING to the device . The device may warn the driver of the dangers associated with manual operation of the OCD while driving.

In operation the APIM determines whether the OCD is paired thereto. If the APIM determines that the OCD is not paired thereto then the method moves to operation . If the APIM determines that the OCD is paired thereto then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal PAIR STATUS that indicates that the OCD is not paired to the APIM . In response the device may transmit a visual or audible warning and request the driver to pair his her OCD to the APIM . The device may also transmit a visual or audible warning to the driver regarding the dangers of manual operation of the OCD while driving the vehicle.

In operation the APIM receives the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the device . The APIM determines whether the driver is the secondary driver based on the information included on the signal DRIVER STATUS . For example the OCD may impose restrictions in the event the driver is the secondary driver.

In operation the APIM determines whether the driver is the primary driver or the secondary driver based on the information included on the signal DRIVER STATUS . If the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver then the method remains in operation . In this case it is recognized that the method will not attempt to terminate the privacy mode for the primary driver based on the vehicle information. If the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver then the APIM transmits the signal DRIVER STATUS  over the protocol to the OCD and the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM determines whether the OCD is in use. For example the APIM may determine whether the APIM is being used based on the data indicated on the signal OCD IN USE. If the APIM determines that the OCD is not in use the method remains in operation . If the APIM determines that the OCD is in use then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM determines whether the driver of the vehicle has selected the privacy mode option. As noted above the driver may select a switch positioned on the APIM or elsewhere in the vehicle to enter into the privacy mode. The privacy mode may return the conversation that is being held between the driver and the other participant into a private conversation. In this mode the driver may speak directly into the microphone of the OCD and privately hear the other participant s comments through the OCD so that the remaining occupants in the vehicle cannot hear the conversation. The primary driver may selectively enable disable this feature via the switches voice command or other suitable devices that cooperate with the device for the secondary driver. If the primary driver disables the privacy mode feature then the secondary driver is not capable of engaging in a private conversation with another participant to ensure that the secondary driver is not distracted while driving when attempting to manipulate the switches of the OCD .

If the APIM determines that the driver has not selected the privacy mode feature then the method remains in operation . If the APIM determines that the driver has selected the privacy mode then the method moves to operation .

In operation the APIM transmits the signal PRIVACY MODE to the OCD . In response the OCD operates in a normal operating mode which allows the driver to speak into the microphone and the driver to hear the other participant from a speaker included therein e.g. the driver is able to manually use the OCD .

In operation the APIM determines whether the driver s performance while in the privacy mode is adequate by monitoring the signal DRIVER PERF that includes the signals DIMON LDW EVENTS ESC EVENTS NEAR MISS FCW EVENTS TAILGATE and or BSM EVENTS. If the APIM determines that the driver s performance is adequate e.g. acceptable DIMON ratings and or no LDW ESC NEAR MISS TAILGATE and or BSM events then the method moves back to operation to determine if the privacy mode is still engaged. If the APIM determines that the driver s performance is not adequate e.g. non acceptable DIMON ratings and or the existence of LDW ESC NEAR MISS TAILGATE and or BSM events then the method moves to operation . Such a condition may indicate among other things that the driving performance is poor while the driver is using the OCD . The signal BSM EVENTS is included on the signal DRIVER PERF however it is recognized that a blind spot monitoring event may not by the driver of the vehicle. Nonetheless it may be necessary to warn the driver and terminate the privacy mode.

In operation the APIM terminates the privacy mode. For example the APIM may provide a command on the signal PRIVACY MODE to terminate the privacy mode and transmit the same to the OCD . The OCD may in response to the signal PRIVACY MODE force on the hands free operation or terminate the call altogether.

In operation the APIM transmits the signal WARNING to the device so that the device visually or audibly warns the driver about the driving performance concern. The device may also record the poor performance event and provide the same on the signal REPORT so that such data is capable of being viewed by the primary driver.

In operation the OCD receives the signal DRIVER STATUS  from the APIM to determine driver identity. If the driver of the vehicle is the primary driver then no restrictions are imposed. If the driver of the vehicle is the secondary driver then the method moves to operation .

In operation the OCD transmits the signal OCD IN USE to the APIM over the wireless protocol . The signal OCD IN USE may be indicative of the driver being engaged in a conversation with another participant with the OCD .

In operation the OCD receives the signal PRIVACY MODE over the wireless protocol from the APIM . The signal PRIVACY MODE may be indicative of a command from the driver to notify the OCD that the driver desires a private conversation with the other participant.

In operation the OCD enables the driver to select switches thereon to control the OCD in the manner desired by the driver. In this case the OCD is not in a hands free mode and the driver resumes normal operation over the OCD .

In operation the OCD determines whether the driver intends to remain in the privacy mode. For example the OCD monitors the signal PRIVACY MODE to determine if the privacy mode feature is to be deactivated. In this case the privacy mode feature may be deactivated by the driver or is to be deactivated based on the data indicated on the signal DRIVER PERF.

If the OCD determines that the privacy mode is to remain active then the method moves to operation . If the OCD determines that the privacy mode is to be deactivated then the method moves to operation .

In operation the OCD disables control of the switches . In another example the OCD may terminate the call altogether in the event the driver is exhibiting a poor driving performance. For example the APIM may transmit a control signal to the OCD to command the OCD to simply terminate the call.

While embodiments of the present invention have been illustrated and described it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

