---

title: Interactive pedestrian routing method
abstract: The present invention's network-based directions-provision methodology typically features the establishment of two ranking schemes that reversely parallel each other. The “personal” ranking scheme ranks all permitted persons in terms of the degree of access permission with respect to the variously ranked regions of a facility; the lower the personal rank, the fewer the regional ranks to which the person is permitted access. The “regional” ranking scheme ranks all accessible regions in terms of the degree of access permission with respect thereto by the variously ranked permitted persons; the higher the regional rank, the fewer the personal ranks that are permitted access to the region. According to typical inventive practice, a permitted person logs in to request directions, within the facility, from an original location to a destination location; the directions given (textual and/or graphical) are the optimal directions that are consistent with the personal rank of the requestor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08046163&OS=08046163&RS=08046163
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08046163
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100716
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 193 657 filing date 27 Jul. 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 761 226 issue date 20 Jul. 2010 hereby incorporated herein by reference entitled Interactive Pedestrian Routing System sole inventor Fazal A. Rashid.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The present invention relates to travel routes more particularly to methodologies for providing directions for traveling within a place or premises.

According to current U.S. Navy practice when a new sailor reports aboard a ship he or she is assigned a designee sometimes referred to as a sponsor to facilitate acclimation of the new sailor to his or her new surroundings. The sponsor typically is of the same rate as the new sailor and may also work in the same division or workspace as the new sailor. Notwithstanding the effectiveness of the current system of orienting and indoctrinating new sailors in which a sponsor personally takes a new sailor under the sponsor s wing the current system can also result in wasted manpower. During the period of orientation and indoctrination which may run well over a month the sponsor may spend large amounts of time guiding and mentoring the sailor. While some of this time is time well spent a significant portion of this time is time wasted time that would be better spent by the sponsor on his or her other responsibilities. Each man hour spent in new sailor indoctrination orientation constitutes a man hour away from the primary duty station. Furthermore decreases in time that sponsors spend on particular tasks tend to necessitate increases in time that other personnel spend on such tasks.

A naval ship is large complex and populous facility containing numerous areas and spaces. At any time onboard the ship many pedestrians are negotiating the areas and spaces in order to get from one location to another. Navigating the labyrinthic interior of the ship can be difficult for sailors who are unfamiliar with the ship and is often no simple matter even for sailors who are familiar with the ship. Common time inefficient endeavors for sponsors involve directing and or accompanying new sailors between various locations onboard the ship. In addition to Navy sailors various other categories of people e.g. non Navy military personnel government civilian employee personnel government contractor personnel on temporary onboard assignment may require navigational assistance. Similar considerations as discussed hereinabove with regard to ships may apply to land based facilities such as buildings installations complexes and stadiums. The desirability is manifest for a methodology of facilitating travel of an unacclimated person from one location to another in the confines of a ship or other facility without unduly occupying an acclimated person s time.

In view of the foregoing it is an object of the present invention to provide method system and computer program product for directing people who require pedestrian travel routing between various locations within a facility such as a ship.

According to typical inventive practice a method for determining a route in a facility comprises a providing a database that includes plural persons that are permitted to occupy a facility and plural regions that are accessible in the facility and b based on the database determining a path for a person from a first location of the facility to a second location of the facility. In the database each person has associated therewith a personal clearance level each region has associated therewith a regional clearance level. There are plural personal clearance levels corresponding to plural regional clearance levels. Each regional clearance level represents the minimum personal clearance level that is permitted access to the region with which the regional clearance level is associated. Each personal clearance level represents the maximum regional clearance level to which is permitted access the person with which the personal clearance level is associated. Associated with every region that the path at least partially intersects is a regional clearance level that is no greater than the personal clearance level associated with the person for whom the path is being determined. According to some inventive embodiments the determination of a path includes a preliminary finding of two or more paths that meet the foregoing inventive standard and a final selection among them of the single path that best conforms e.g. in terms of average regional clearance level characterizing the path with the personal clearance level associated with the person for whom the path is being determined.

As typically embodied the present invention is a web based tool for providing walking directions for people traveling within the parameters of a facility that is subject to one or more restrictions. A prime example of a restricted access facility is a U.S. Navy ship which usually has onboard many Navy military people including officers and enlisted personnel along with some people who are not Navy military. The present invention typically provides an interactive shipboard client server computer network that includes a server and multiple clients. The server is a central computer having inventive software installed therein for processing direction requests by persons using client computers. A person makes a directions inquiry from a client computer by typing in his her username and password a starting onboard location and an ending onboard location. The clients can include workstation computers e.g. for Navy personnel and or specially dedicated direction finder computers that are strategically stationed at various locations onboard the ship. The client computer displays textual and or graphic directions originating from the server that can be printed out by the client computer user. Various computer program products in accordance with the present invention can be made available e.g. on compact disc for installation as would be suitable for creating and or maintaining the present invention s network. Although the present invention is typically practiced so as to implement a computer network e.g. internet or intranet the present invention can also be practiced utilizing one or more computer program products e.g. residing on one or more compact discs in the absence of networking requirement or capability. For instance inventive direction giving cd roms can be distributed to facility personnel in accordance with personal clearance level wherein a different cd rom edition entitled e.g. VIP Edition Manager Edition Employee Edition is issued for each personal clearance level.

The present invention thus advantageously promotes the independence of persons who are unfamiliar with a facility. As long as the directions are clear and the unacclimated new person fully appreciates that certain areas and spaces are off limits to him or her there is a tremendous upside to encouraging the self reliance of the unacclimated person. Moreover practice of the present invention is not relegated to restricted access facilities but is possible for any facility. Inventive practice can be especially propitious for a restricted access facility since such a facility already has in place a logical basis for distinguishing between or among two or more categories of people for instance due to security concerns. Inventive practice can nevertheless prove useful for a facility that is not a restricted access facility for instance in furtherance of alleviating pedestrian traffic congestion inside a facility. The present invention can serve as an effective traffic engineering tool for regulating the flow of pedestrian traffic regardless of whether the inventive clearance level designations are logical arbitrary or some combination thereof. Furthermore inventive principles are applicable not only to pedestrian travel but also to vehicular travel. For instance there may be large numbers of pedestrians and vehicles e.g. forklifts that are concurrently moving about throughout a large and intricate factory complex.

The term facility as used herein broadly refers to any place or premises for instance all or part of a building structure edifice factory installation complex stadium vehicle or vessel. The term restricted access facility as used herein broadly refers to any facility that contains one or more areas or spaces to which access is restricted. A space or area is accessible if it is physically capable of being reached or entered. Restricted access to a space or area suggests lack of permission to access such space or area with regard to at least one person or at least one group. Restricted acess usually entails permission of access with respect to some people and non permission e.g. denial of access with respect to other people. Access to a space or area is restricted for instance if one or more groups of people are not authorized to reach or enter the space or area. The term clearance as used herein is a general term meaning permission to proceed.

Other objects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of the invention when considered in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

Referring now to a typical computer networked system in accordance with the present invention includes a server and multiple clients . Server includes a processor and a storage device . Each client includes a computer which includes a processor and a storage device an interface unit which includes a keyboard and a mouse a display and a printer . Installed in each client s storage and in server s storage are client s network software and server s network software respectively which together enable communication between each client and server in the context of the inventive networked system. Also installed in server s storage are a user identification ID database a facility mapping database and routing application program . The present invention s routing application software includes provision for interactive communication including logging in requesting directions and providing directions all via a directions website and directions determination including processor access to user ID database and facility mapping database .

With reference to a fundamental aspect of the present invention is the provision of two equivalent but converse clearance level hierarchies viz. a personal clearance level hierarchy represented in the lefthand column of and a regional clearance level hierarchy represented in the righthand column of . The personal clearance level hierarchy pertains to the authorized occupants of the facility who are described in user ID database in terms of username password and personal clearance level. The regional clearance level hierarchy pertains to the layout and regions of the facility itself which are described in facility mapping database in terms of region region location region dimensions and regional clearance level. The personal clearance level hierarchy and the regional clearance level hierarchy are characterized by converse access e.g. entry permissibility schemes.

To elaborate as shown in personal clearance level four the highest personal clearance level is followed by personal clearance level three the second highest personal clearance level which is followed by personal clearance level two the third highest personal clearance level which is followed by personal clearance level one the lowest and fourth highest personal clearance level . In parallel fashion regional clearance level four the highest regional clearance level is followed by regional clearance level three the second highest regional clearance level which is followed by regional clearance level two the third highest regional clearance level which is followed by regional clearance level one the lowest and fourth highest regional clearance level . Some people are attributed with personal clearance level four some people are attributed with personal clearance level three some people are attributed with personal clearance level two and some people are attributed with personal clearance level one. Similarly some regions are attributed with regional clearance level four some regions are attributed with regional clearance level three some regions are attributed with regional clearance level two and some regions are attributed with regional clearance level one.

A personal clearance level four person is permitted access to all regions at any of the four regional clearance levels viz. any regional clearance level four region any regional clearance level three region any regional clearance level two region and any regional clearance level one region. A personal clearance level three person is permitted access to all regions at three of the four regional clearance levels viz. any regional clearance level three region any regional clearance level two region and any regional clearance level one region. A personal clearance level two person is permitted access to all regions at two of the four regional clearance levels viz. any regional clearance level two region and any regional clearance level one region. A personal clearance level one person is permitted access to all regions at one of the four regional clearance levels viz. any regional clearance level one region.

As compared with the permissions associated with the personal clearance levels the permissions associated with the regional clearance levels operate in a reverse manner. A regional clearance level one region permits access to all persons at all four personal clearance levels viz. any personal clearance level four region any regional clearance level three region any regional clearance level two region and any regional clearance level one region. A regional clearance level two region permits access to all persons at three of the four personal clearance levels viz. any personal clearance level four person any personal clearance level three person and any personal clearance level two person. A regional clearance level three region permits access to all persons at two of the four personal clearance levels viz. any personal clearance level four person and any personal clearance level three person. A regional clearance level four region permits access to all persons at one of the four personal clearance levels viz. any personal clearance level four person.

According to typical inventive practice user ID database contains identifying information e.g. full name date of birth place of birth military rank civilian government employment grade contractor employment information assignment or detail and or security clearance along with the user name username and password for every individual who is permitted to be present within the confines of the ship or other facility. The password can be changed e.g. periodically on the initiative of the user or at the instance of the server s network software . For U.S. Navy ships an efficient approach to compiling ship mapping database may include adoption of the U.S. Navy s uniform system of ship compartment designations in accordance with which every ship is identifiably compartmentalized regionalized . The existing designations for the compartments regions onboard the ship can be incorporated into database .

The U.S. Navy s compartment designation system assigns to every space except certain minor spaces a compartment designation consisting of three numerical symbols and a letter symbol that are separated by dashes. Each compartment designation is displayed e.g. in photoluminescent paint on a label plate referred to by Navy sailors as a bulls eye. Each bulls eye is attached to a door bulkhead or hatch of the corresponding compartment . According to the U.S. Navy s compartment designation system a compartment designation consists of i a deck number e.g. main deck second deck third deck etc. ii a frame number indicating the relationship of the compartment relative to the bow of the ship in a longitudinal direction iii a port versus starboard number indicating the relationship of the compartment relative to the centerline in a transverse direction wherein even numbers pertain to port side compartments and odd numbers pertain to starboard side compartments and iv a letter or double letter indicating the use of the compartment e.g. A for stowage spaces AA for cargo holds C for control centers such as CIC L for living spaces etc. . For instance according to the compartment designation 04 79 1 C the number 04 indicates the fourth deck above the main deck which is indicated by the number 1 the number 79 indicates frame number the number 1 indicates the first compartment to starboard side and the letter C indicates compartment use as a control center. A deck number of 3 for example indicates the third deck i.e. two decks below the main deck which is deck number 1 . A centerline relationship number of 2 indicates the first compartment to port side. See e.g. NAVEDTRA 14325 United States Navy Nonresident Training Course Naval Education and Training Professional Development and Technology Center NETPDTC Pensacola Fla. February 2002 Chapter 8 Ship Aircraft Characteristics pages 8 11 to 8 13 The Bluejackets Manual 19Edition United States Naval Institute Naval Institute Press Annapolis Md. 1973 Chapter 8 Ship Construction and Operation pages 144 147 NAVPERS 10788 B Revised Edition prepared by the Bureau of Naval Personnel Superintendent of Documents U.S. Government Printing Office Washington D.C. 1970 Chapter 2 Ship Design and Construction pages 26 29.

By way of illustration of inventive practice associated with a U.S. Navy ship a personal clearance hierarchy might be established along the lines of the following. Personal clearance level four designees are U.S. Navy personnel of rank E5 or above or other U.S. military personnel of rank equivalent to E5 or above. Personal clearance level three designees are U.S. Navy personnel of rank E4 or below or other U.S. military personnel of rank equivalent to rank E4 or below. Personal clearance level two designees are U.S. government employees or representatives who do not require an escort or contractor employees or representatives who do not require an escort. Personal clearance level one designees are civilians to whom personal clearance level two does not apply e.g. non U.S. Government civilians non contractor civilians and who do not require an escort. Personal clearance level four designees are permitted access to regional clearance level four compartments . Personal clearance level four designees and personal clearance level three designees are permitted access to regional clearance level three compartments . Personal clearance level four designees personal clearance level three designees and personal clearance level two designees are permitted access to regional clearance level two compartments . All authorized individuals i.e. personal clearance level four designees personal clearance level three designees personal clearance level two designees and personal clearance level one designees are permitted access to regional clearance level one compartments . The variations are endless for configuring the personal clearance and regional clearance classification schemes. Factors such as governmental military or company security clearance e.g. top secret security clearance secret security clearance confidential security clearance can be incorporated into the personal and regional clearance regimes.

Still referring to and reference is also made to and . As illustrated in the user logs on logs in to the inventive website by entering using interface his her username and password at the website s home or main page such as depicted in . The user is properly logged on provided that the routing application program looking to user ID database accepts both the user s username and the user s password. Once logged on the user requests directions by entering using interface a starting location and an ending location at the website s directions request page such as depicted in . When both the starting location and the ending location are accepted by application program as being contained in facility mapping database application program continues through its directions determination logic as illustrated in .

As depicted in through the user is a Navy officer requesting directions from the Enlisted Galley to the Combat Information Center CIC . The directions shown in are in the form of written step by step instructions accompanied by two plan views viz. of two adjacent ship decks. A bold path line traces the route from the starting location compartment which the Enlisted Galley includes and the ending location compartment E which the CIC includes . Compartments S and E indicated in are but two of numerous compartments that are contained in ship mapping database . The insets containing compartments S and E shown in are for illustrative purposes and are not part of the display screen viewable by the user in . In database with the exceptions of certain minor spaces e.g. some closets all onboard space or all accessible onboard space is regionalized compartmentalized each region compartment is assigned a minimum permissible clearance level below which access is denied.

There are diverse types of graphic displays that are possible in inventive practice for communicating the directions to the user. Although plan views are provided to the user as depicted in inventive practice admits of the possibility of one or more plan views elevation views and or perspective views in any combination and of any portion of e.g. a single deck or a group of longitudinal frames or the entirety of the ship. In addition some inventive embodiments provide for a kind of virtual reality tour whereby the user views on the display screen a dynamic rendering of the pedestrian route from the starting location to the ending location. For instance upon the completion and entering of the user s directions request such as shown in the display screen splits and the user views a visual walk through the route from the starting location to the ending location once the visual walk is completed the user may have the option of repeating the visual walk or may log off. If the user does nothing the computer can wait a period of time and then reset itself for the next person.

The user is identified from user ID database as having a particular personal clearance level. For instance taking the example shown in every user contained in user ID database is designated as having either personal clearance level four or personal clearance level three or personal clearance level two or personal clearance level one. In accordance with the personal clearance level of the user application program delimits the scope of possibilities of available routes i.e. routes that are permitted to be taken by the user. An available route is a route that connects the starting and ending locations and that only touches regions having a regional clearance level that is equal to or less than the personal clearance level of the user. Application program goes on to determine the best available route for the user which is exhibited by application program on the website s directions provision page such as depicted in . A typical inventive reasoning process of narrowing down the routing possibilities to a single best available route is illustrated in . The user views the directions on display and or prints out the directions using printer . The user also has the option of requesting directions for a different pair of starting and ending locations. When the user has completed his her session he she logs off logs out from the website.

The generally preferred inventive approach is to communicate to the inquiring person a single route although it is possible in inventive practice to design an inventive application program that communicates two or more routes thus allowing the inquiring person the option of choosing the route to be taken. Inventive practice typically determines what is referred to herein as the best available route which is based on personal clearance and regional clearance information. In the expression best available route the adjectives best and available pertain to different aspects of an inventively determined route. An available route is any route that can be taken in accordance with basic inventive principles insofar as being consistent with a given person s personal clearance level and the regional clearance level scheme of the facility. As for finding which available route is best inventive practice can embody any of multifarious possible ways for reaching this decision. For instance a server can be inventively programmed to preliminarily determine all of the available routes and to then finally determine which available route is the best available route if there is only one available route then the best available route has already been determined.

To illustrate by way of example the present invention s prioritized selection of a best available route let us assume that the present invention attributes to a company s large facility four personal clearance levels and four matching regional clearance levels viz. Levels and in order from highest to lowest. Level is the highest most permissive personal clearance level reserved for corporate officers and VIPs. Level is the second highest second most permissive personal clearance level reserved for managerial personnel. Level is the third highest third most permissive personal clearance level reserved for non managerial personnel. Level is the lowest least permissive personal clearance level reserved for visitors and guests. A Level person goes online seeking directions from the cafeteria to the tennis court. Stage I through Stage II reasoning by the inventive application program yields two alternative available routes viz. Route A and Route B as follows. Route A cafeteria to Level region to Level region to Level region to Level region to Level region to tennis court. Route B cafeteria to Level region to Level region to Level region to Level region to Level region to Level region to tennis court. A Level person goes online seeking directions from the same starting point cafeteria to the same ending point tennis court . The only available route that is determined for the Level person via the inventive application program s Stage I reasoning is the above noted Route B.

Continuing with this example by various forms of reasoning Route A may be considered to be more suitable than Route B for the Level person. Typically the present invention s goal in Stage III is to select the best fit route as the best available route that is Stage II selects from among the Stage II determined candidates for the best available route the one route that is the very best fit for the person being directed in terms of that person s personal clearance level. Depending upon the inventive embodiment this best fit route is variously arrived at. Some inventive embodiments incorporate in some capacity into the best fit reasoning process the premise that higher personal clearance level individuals should be permitted better routes than lower personal clearance level individuals. Inventive practice can be geared in various ways toward favoring the higher personal clearance level individual over the lower personal clearance level individual. More generally a typical inventive strategy is to find routes that are commensurate with the personal clearance levels of the users. Nevertheless not every pair of starting and ending locations will have mutually exclusive routes for every personal clearance level that is for given starting and ending locations the inventively determined routes may vary but will not necessarily vary for two or more individuals having different personal clearance levels.

One inventive approach is to adopt as the best fit route the available route in which the average regional clearance level is closest to the personal clearance level of the person being directed. This average regional clearance level can be for example the arithmetic mean of the regional clearance levels corresponding to the regions encompassed by the route. According to this rationale Route A is characterized by an average regional clearance level of 11 5 2.2 whereas Route B is characterized by an average regional clearance level of 9 6 1.5. Alternatively either the median or the mode can be taken of the pertinent regional clearance levels. As another alternative for each of the candidates for best available route an average is taken of the regional clearance levels along the overall distance length described by the route with different percentages of the overall route distance length being associated with different regional clearance levels.

Regardless of how the average of the regional clearance levels is inventively defined this average is taken of the route between but not including the starting location cafeteria and the ending location tennis court . Inventive incorporation of the notion of average regional clearance level might inherently serve to promote better inventive route selections for higher personal clearance level individuals. In a qualitative sense the best fit route often comes down to that route whose predominant regional clearance level best matches the personal clearance level of the person being directed. By affording the capability of applying a prioritization model of these types to all individual direction requests inventive practice may serve to attribute balance to or alleviate congestion of pedestrian traffic patterns. In the above example it is consistent with such objective if the Level person and the Level person are advised to take different routes from the same starting location cafeteria to the same ending location tennis court that is the Level person is directed along Route A whereas the Level person is directed along Route B.

Installation of an inventive system onboard a ship can be accomplished in several phases. By way of example during an initial phase an AutoCAD layout of the ship is obtained using a three dimensional 3D computer tool such as VIRTOOL Virtual Reality for Machine Tool an interactive application under development by a European consortium. VIRTOOL uses 3D graphics and virtual reality. A layout for a class of ship e.g. a U.S. Navy ship class such as CG CVN etc. may already be available in AutoCAD format and this may lend itself to incorporation into the VIRTOOL rendering. Upon completion of the ship layout in 3D the ship is mapped out using regional designations for all accessible locations such as the aforenoted compartmental designations commonly used for U.S. Navy ships. For instance correspondence is made or adopted between the CIC Combat Information Center and the compartmental designation 03 0 45 0. The personal and regional clearance level classification schemes are established subject to the approval of the ship captain. In order that the ship maintain absolute control over who gains physical access to the ship and how deep the physical access is a ship department is tasked with controlling user access to the inventive system only the designated ship department grants the passwords and permissions. Once the inventive system is completely installed and tested onboard ship the inventive system is ready for end use. The controlling department personnel are trained to operate and maintain the inventive system including correcting any computer glitches that may arise.

The present invention which is disclosed herein is not to be limited by the embodiments described or illustrated herein which are given by way of example and not of limitation. Other embodiments of the present invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from a consideration of the instant disclosure or from practice of the present invention. Various omissions modifications and changes to the principles disclosed herein may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the true scope and spirit of the present invention which is indicated by the following claims.

