---

title: Variable stiffness tow cable
abstract: A variable stiffness tow cable comprising a plurality of strands. Most of the strands comprise a polymer with interstitial spaces filled with a ferrofluid comprising nanoparticles. And, least one of the strands is a nanoparticle control field source. The stiffness is varied for a number of control objectives such to dampen motion. In another application, strum is controlled by electrical input rather than by changing the length of tow cable let out.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08834998&OS=08834998&RS=08834998
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08834998
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100706
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates to ships. More particularly the invention relates to towing by means of cable. Most particularly the invention relates to a tow cable.

Marine towing includes diverse operations including recovering boats in distress moving barges and barge trains moving and positioning petroleum drilling platforms transporting and positioning buoys pulling hydrophone and other instrument assemblies mine sweeping underwater towing and recovery and the like. Included in vessel towing are the various operations involved in moving and also in holding a stable position i.e. resisting motion. The dynamics of towing is different in ocean lake and river environments and changes with weather conditions. This causes the demands of safe towing to change from towing preparations to final mooring.

In addition to the general transport of the towed vessel towing requires compensation for static forces dynamic forces and shock load forces. Static forces are inertia and moment of inertia encountered during turning which cause a towed vessel to resist motion.

Dynamic forces occur when the towed vessel is moving. These forces are caused by the towing vessel and the effects of waves and wind. These forces are based on towed vessel characteristics including shape displacement arrangement and rigging. Friction forces vary with hull shape. Greater wetted surface area causes greater frictional resistance. Hull appendages such as propellers shafts skegs keel and rudders contribute to wetted surface area and frictional resistance. Frictional resistance is managed with towing speed. Higher towing speed causes higher friction resistance and more strain on the tow rigging. Form drag plays a large role in the ability to control changes in the towed vessel s movement. Different hull shapes react to motion through the water in different ways. The shape and size of the towed vessel s hull can either help or hinder effort to move in a straight line when changing heading and motion changes in response to waves due to buoyancy. The less water a hull shape has to push out of its way the easier it will move through the water. A deep draft full hulled vessel takes more effort to move than one with a fine hallow hull. A large amount of lateral resistance spread evenly over the length of the hull hinders the effort to change a towed vessel s direction. A towed vessel may be able to help offset form drag by using its rudder. A surface wave forms at the bow while the hull moves through the water. Size of the bow wave increases as vessel speed increases causing the wave to resist the bow moving through the water.

Shock load is rapid extreme increase in tension on the tow cable which transfers through the tow rig and fittings to both vessels. The frictional forces of wave drag spray drag and wind drag act on the hull topsides and superstructure and rigging. They all have a major effect on the motion of the towed vessel and the transfer of forces to and through the towing rig. These constantly changing forces vary with the towed vessel s motion relative to the environmental elements and are directly related to the towed vessel s exposure to them. These forces can add up and cause shock loading. Wind and wave drag also cause a distressed drifting vessel to make leeway that is motion in a downwind direction.

A towed vessel is rarely under the influence of only one force. Usually a combination of forces is experienced making the tow more complex. Some individual forces are very large and relatively constant. These are relatively easier to handle provided that all towing force changes are gradual. When forces change in an irregular manner tension on the tow rig varies. Shock loading may cause severe damage to both towing and towed vessel and overload a tow rig to the point of tow cable or bridle failure. Shock loading can cause momentary loss of directional control by either vessel and has the potential of capsize small vessels.

Even in calm winds and seas a towing vessel can encounter a large amount of frictional resistance from form and wave drag when towing a large fishing vessel with trawl lines and net still in the water. The tow rig and vessel fittings can be under heavy strain and the tow vessel engine loads rather high. If the net catches on an obstacle this new load acts through the tow rig and can suddenly increase stress to a potentially damaging amount. This shock load can part the tow cable or destroy fittings.

A longer tow cable reduces the effect of shock loading in two ways. The weight of the line causes a dip in the line known as a catenary. The longer the cable the greater the possible catenary. When tension increases energy from shock loading is dissipated by reducing catenary before it is transferred through the rest of the rig and fittings. A second benefit of a longer tow cable is additional cable length from stretching. Depending on the type of tow cable lengthening the cable by 50 feet gives 5 to 20 feet more stretch length. This stretching absorbs shock load. Lengthening the tow cable can be used to keep the two vessels in step and to reduce shock load.

The effect of shock loading can be mitigated by tacking to either side of the actual desired course rather than setting a course directly into or directly down heavy seas. This is accomplished by keeping the seas 30 to 45 either side of dead ahead or dead astern. A drogue can be attached to the towed vessel to help prevent it from accelerating down the face of a wave. A drogue adds form drag but may reduce shock loading. Shock loading can capsize or swamp the towed vessel. The additional towing force from a shock loaded tow cable may cause a smaller vessel to climb its bow wave and become unstable or it may pull the bow through a cresting wave.

In heavy seas towing vessel speed can be adjusted to match that of the towed vessel. This requires constant observation of the towed vessel and changing speed to compensate for the approaching or receding seas on the towed vessel. One serious danger is cable snap back. This can occur when the tow cable is stretched to breaking. Some nylon cordage can stretch up to 40 of its length before parting.

Another condition encountered during towing is a persistent induced vibration in the tow cable referred to as strum. This vibration is transmitted into a towed instrument array and can cause damage to instrument components. The vibration can be reduced by changing the length of tow cable so that the cable length is not a harmonic multiple of the vibration. Strum is more fully described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 494 158 to A. A. Ruffa for a Method For Reducing Strum In Tow Cable incorporated herein by reference.

There is a need in the art of marine towing for an improvement that helps to avoid or reduce inherent dangers. Risk and associated insurance rates may be reduced with an improved tow cable.

A variable stiffness tow cable comprises a plurality of strands. At least one of the strands comprises a polymer coated along its length with a ferrofluid comprising nanoparticles. At least one of the strands is an electrostatic or electrodynamic field inducing nanoparticle control field source.

The invention is described with reference to the drawing wherein numerals in the written description correspond to like numbered elements in the several figures. The drawing discloses a preferred embodiment of the invention and is not intended to limit the generally broad scope of the invention as set forth in the claims.

Reference is made to showing a tow cable attaching the stern of a towing vessel to the bow of a towed vessel . Orthogonal axes are labeled x and y. Towing is underway in the x direction. Voltage source and regulator is carried on towing vessel and electrically attached to and in control communication with tow cable . Stiffness in tow cable or to sections of tow cable is varied controlled and set with voltage source and regulator as will be described herein.

The distance D between towing vessel and towed vessel is less than the fully extended length of the tow cable . This allows for a dip of length C referred to as catenary. The catenary can be influenced by the tow cable of the invention to provide a more steady state tow. This provides damping of shock loadings transported through the tow cable towing equipment and to the vessel attached at the other end of the cable.

Although only tow cable is shown it is understood that towing equipment includes pendants and bridles deck fittings hardware for attaching the tow cable fenders buoys drogues and alongside lines.

Tow cables are usually double braided nylon two to four inches in circumference. Length ordinarily ranges up to 900 feet for vessel towing and can be about 16 400 feet for towed sonar arrays. Nylon is the generic name for long chain polymeric amide molecules in which recurring amide groups are part of the main polymer chain. Nylon is used for the tow cable because it has a good combination of elongation and elasticity. Other polymers are also used in tow cables.

In more demanding service tow cables must withstand cuts chafing flattening over heating over stretching snagging and hardening. Cables having enhanced physical properties are made of higher strength flexible materials. These materials include various commercially available synthetic fibrous materials. Such synthetic fibers include aramid polymers polyaramid polymers and polyethylene polymers. Preferred super fiber materials include ultra high molecular weight polyethylene. These are sold under the trademarks DEEMA and SPECTRA .

A majority of the strands strands strands and strands are made of polymer. The interstitial spaces between the strands are filled with a ferrofluid so that the surface of the polymer strands is coated. The coating is applied in fluid medium referred to as a ferrofluid. Sheath prevents loss of the particle containing ferrofluid and retention of the fluid in the interstitial space under sheath interstitial between strands not shown interstitial space between the inner and outer layer and space in core . The cable is made by injecting ferrofluid into the core and interstitial spaces.

Associated with the strands made of polymer are control strands indicated by strand and strand . These are braided into the two double braided strand layers preferably in a helical pattern relative to the length of the cable to provide a circumferential field. Control strands provide an electrostatic or electrodynamic field to activate the particles. The electrostatic field is provided by an electric control coil. The electrostatic control coil is a series of variable induction coils along the length of the strand. Each of the control coils is addressable via a multiplicity of wire connections to the outer ring and a multiplicity of wire connection to the inner ring. Wire connections and wire connections are electrically connected to voltage source and regulator for the outer ring and voltage source and regulator for the inner ring. The multiplicity of voltage source and regulators are assembled in voltage source and regulator on towing vessel shown in . This permits control of all regulators along the cable from the towing vessel . Likewise the electrostatic field is provided by a controllable inductor or controllable capacitor. The inductors or capacitors extend in series along the tow cable and are independently addressable. The electrodynamic field is provided by a magnetic control coil typically a series of magnetic control coils. This allows for a section of a cable to be stiffened or for different stiffness in different sections of the cable. This may be accomplished with microprocessor addressable switches.

Strands strands strands and strands are made of polymer wetted in the interstitial spaces along their length with a ferrofluid. Sheath prevents loss of the particle containing ferrofluid and retention of the fluid in the interstitial space under sheath interstitial space between strands not shown interstitial space between the inner and outer layer and space in core .

Control strand provides a controlling circumferential electrostatic or electrodynamic field to stimulate nanoparticles on strands strands strands and strands . The field is provided by a control coil. The control coil is a series of variable induction coils along the length of the strand. Each of the control coils is addressable via wire connections in electrical contact with voltage source and regulator . The voltage range is in the range determined to activate the particles in the range of zero to maximum response. This range is determined by the physical property of the particles used and the size i.e. resistance of the tow cable. An electrostatic field is provided by a variable inductor variable capacitor or addressable switches extending in series along the length of the cable. The inductors are independently addressable. The electrodynamic field is provided by a magnetic control coil typically a series of magnetic control coils. The control coils are independently addressable.

Ferrofluids are a class of magneto rheological fluids. The particles in the ferrofluid are those that are stimulated by means of an applied electrostatic or electrodynamic field that is particulates having paramagnetic ferrimagnetic or ferromagnetic properties. Examples of paramagnetic particulates include compounds comprising oxides chlorides sulfates sulfides hydrates and other organic or inorganic compounds of cerium chromium cobalt dysprosium erbium europium gadolinium holmium iron manganese neodymium nickel praseodymium samarium terbium titanium uranium vanadium and yttrium. Paramagnetic elements and alloys include gadolinium various stainless steels and other alloys of iron nickel manganese and cobalt with or without other non magnetic elements.

Ferromagnetic particulates include magnetite FeO and other compounds of iron and oxygen and a third metallic component. Ferromagnetic materials include iron nickel and cobalt as well as alloys of these and other materials.

Typically ferrofluids incorporate iron oxides as the magnetic particles. The most suitable iron oxides are ferrites such as ferric oxide. Ferrites and ferric oxides offer a number of physical and chemical properties to the magnetic fluid. These include saturation magnetization viscosity magnetic stability and chemical stability of the system. To remain in suspension the ferrite particles require a surfactant coating also known as a dispersant to prevent the particles from coagulating or agglomerating. The surfactants dispersant has two major functions. The first is to assure a permanent distance between the magnetic particles to overcome the forces of attraction caused by Van der Waal forces and magnetic attraction i.e. to prevent coagulation or agglomeration. The second is to provide a chemical composition on the outer surface of the magnetic particle that is compatible with the oil based carrier.

The size of the particles in the ferrofluid can range from for example from 10 nanometers to several millimeters typically 10 nanometers to 100 nanometers. Particle loading in the oil based carrier is typically 5 vol to 10 vol .

The oil based carrier liquid is generally an organic hydrocarbon oil or silicone oil with molecular weight range up to about eight to nine thousand. Hydrocarbon oils include polyalpha olefins aromatic chain structures molecules and esters such as polyol esters.

A preferred ferrofluid comprises titanium coated iron particles in oil. Another preferred ferrofluid comprises high temperature superconducting particles in liquid nitrogen.

Voltage source and controller is a source of alternating current AC or direct current DC voltage. The applied voltage is in the range determined to activate the particles from zero response to maximum response. This range is determined by the physical property of the particles selected and the resistance of the tow cable materials to the electrostatic or electrodynamic field penetration.

A number of control strategies are possible for adjusting voltage source and controller depending on the operation being carried out and the desired result. It is usually desirable to rely first on the known dynamics of the tow cable. Control by means of the invention is an enhancement to those dynamic characteristics and does not extend the physical limits of the tow cable.

While underway an electronic range finder is used to measure the distance between the towing vessel and the towed vessel. A dead band is selected for distance between vessels within which no control action is taken. If the distance limit is exceeded control action is taken to stiffen or relax stiffness in the cable. The result is to vary the catenary to provide more or less pull on the towed vessel.

In another control strategy oscillations in the distance between the two vessels can be dampened while assuring that a safe amount of catenary is maintained.

In another control strategy the catenary is stored in a microprocessor and the tow cable controlled to maintain the catenary through a turn or series of turns. This control strategy can be enhanced if desired by the inclusion of shape memory alloy strands along with the polymer strands in the cable.

In another control strategy strum in the tow cable is damped by letting out or taking in a less than functionally significant amount of cable to change the resonant frequency of the tow cable.

In another control strategy simple manual control of the tow cable is replaced with a microprocessor based system with multiple sensor inputs to determine optimum control response to include active motion control relative motion damping and motion control during loading offloading. The microprocessor based control system can eliminate the need for drogues to control motion in the towed vessel. In another control strategy The distance and relative motion between two towed barges is controlled in a multiple barge train. Again small amounts of stiffening and slackening of the cable control adjusts the position of two unpowered barges relative to each other.

In another control strategy the cable is used to tie up a ship to a dock. The ship s distance from the dock is continuously monitored and controlled to reduce motion during loading and unloading or to reduce bumping over time. The cable is stiffened as necessary to reduce motion and bumping.

The foregoing discussion discloses and describes embodiments of the invention by way of example. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from this discussion that various changes modifications and variations can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the following claims.

