---

title: Method and apparatus for dynamically adjusting traffic QOS in accordance with on-demand request
abstract: A method and apparatus for dynamically adjusting traffic quality of service (“QoS”) on-demand over a communications network are disclosed. The process, in one embodiment, is configured to receive an enhanced QoS request from a user via a first node over a communications network. Upon prioritizing traffic flow in accordance with the enhanced QoS request, the enhanced QoS request associated with the first node is recorded. Upon acknowledging the enhanced traffic QoS, the process routes the information to the first node in accordance to a predefined enhanced QoS.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08761095&OS=08761095&RS=08761095
owner: Tellabs, Inc.
number: 08761095
owner_city: Naperville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100818
---
The technical field of embodiments of the present invention relate to communication networks. More specifically embodiments of the present invention relate to providing traffic priority in accordance with on demand requests.

With increasing demand for more information to be supplied to homes and or businesses many network communication providers are switching or upgrading their networks to high speed communication signaling protocol such as Digital Signal 3 DS3 or T3. High speed communication signaling protocol typically enhances bandwidth and speed for audio video and data transmission to from homes and or businesses. For the mobile communication industry wireless providers are transitioning from a traditional GSM Ethernet packet based data services and or 2 G wireless service using T1 interfaces to more data intensive 3 G or 4 G services. With exploding growth of mobile users as well as wired data communication users and carriers are trying to meet such growing demand with fatter pipes as well as altering traffic quality of service QoS .

A conventional packet switching network typically offers finite bandwidth capacity for transporting information or packets between sources and destinations. When a packet travels through a communication network from a source to a destination it could encounter various problems such as packet drop packet jitter out of order packet delivery arrival delay and so forth. The performance of a communication network can vary depending on the number of users or traffic loading associated with the network. For example with relatively heavy loading on shared network resources the throughput or bit rate that can be provided to certain data streams or flows can be too low for voice video and or multimedia services when all data streams or flows have the same traffic priority. When a traffic priority for a particular path or flow is set the priority typically does not change until a carrier decides to update.

A process and or network device capable of dynamically adjusting traffic quality of service QoS on demand over a communications network is disclosed. The process in one embodiment is configured to receive an enhanced QoS request from a user via a first node over a communications network. Upon prioritizing traffic flow in accordance with the enhanced QoS request the enhanced QoS request associated with the first node is recorded. Upon acknowledging the enhanced traffic QoS the process routes the information to the first node in accordance to a predefined enhanced QoS.

Additional features and benefits of the exemplary embodiment s of the present invention will become apparent from the detailed description figures and claims set forth below.

Exemplary embodiment s of the present invention is described herein in the context of a method system and apparatus of adjusting traffic quality of service QoS on demand for resetting one or more traffic priority flows.

Those of ordinary skills in the art will realize that the following detailed description of the exemplary embodiment s is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. Other embodiments will readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons having the benefit of this disclosure. Reference will now be made in detail to implementations of the exemplary embodiment s as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. The same reference indicators will be used throughout the drawings and the following detailed description to refer to the same or like parts.

References to one embodiment an embodiment example embodiment various embodiments exemplary embodiment one aspect an aspect exemplary aspect various aspects et cetera indicate that the embodiment s of the invention so described may include a particular feature structure or characteristic but not every embodiment necessarily includes the particular feature structure or characteristic. Further repeated use of the phrase in one embodiment does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment although it may.

In the interest of clarity not all of the routine features of the implementations described herein are shown and described. It will of course be understood that in the development of any such actual implementation numerous implementation specific decisions must be made in order to achieve the developer s specific goals such as compliance with application and business related constraints and that these specific goals will vary from one implementation to another and from one developer to another. Moreover it will be understood that such a development effort might be complex and time consuming but would nevertheless be a routine undertaking of engineering for those of ordinary skills in the art having the benefit of this disclosure.

In accordance with the present invention the components process steps and or data structures described herein may be implemented using various types of operating systems computing platforms computer programs and or general purpose machines. In addition those of ordinary skills in the art will recognize that devices of a less general purpose nature such as hardwired devices field programmable gate arrays FPGAs application specific integrated circuits ASICs or the like may also be used without departing from the scope and spirit of the inventive concepts disclosed herein. Where a method comprising a series of process steps is implemented by a computer or a machine and those process steps can be stored as a series of instructions readable by the machine they may be stored on a tangible medium such as a computer memory device e.g. ROM Read Only Memory PROM Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory FLASH Memory Jump Drive and the like magnetic storage medium e.g. tape magnetic disk drive and the like optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM DVD ROM paper card and paper tape and the like and other known types of program memory.

Various embodiments of the present invention illustrated in the drawings may not be drawn to scale. Rather the dimensions of the various features may be expanded or reduced for clarity. In addition some of the drawings may be simplified for clarity. Thus the drawings may not depict all of the components of a given apparatus e.g. device or method.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skills in the art to which the exemplary embodiment s belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and this exemplary embodiment s of the disclosure unless otherwise defined.

As used herein the singular forms of article a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Also the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Embodiment s of the present invention discloses a mechanism of dynamically adjusting traffic QoS on demand over a communications network is disclosed. After receiving an enhanced QoS request from a user via a node over a communications network the process prioritizes the traffic flow in accordance with the enhanced QoS request. Upon recording the enhanced QoS request associated with the node the process routes the information to the first node in accordance to a predefined enhanced QoS.

Each router such as router or in one example is prioritized in a sequential order. A router with the highest priority is the master router. A router is configured to route data traffic between sources and destinations. The routers such as routers are interconnected by Interior Gateway Protocol IGP . Each router for example includes functions of IP routing. In one embodiment a router such as router includes a QoS management not shown in capable of enhancing traffic priority for a traffic flow upon receipt of an on demand request. Traffic flow in one aspect includes a priority channel established between cell site and router .

Switching network as indicated in is capable of transporting information between circuit based clients and packet switching clients. Switching network can be an IP and or Multi Protocol Label Switching MPLS based switching network which may operate at a layer of Open Systems Interconnection Basic Reference Model OSI model . In one aspect network includes a switch block and a backhaul block used for transferring information and or various data traffic to and from network clients. Network client in one example may include one or more routers switches hosts base stations and the like. Network is capable of routing information between cell sites and RNC via routers . For example while the switch block of network transmits information between cell site and router via bus the backhaul block of network transmits information between cells site and router via bus .

Cell site also known as a base station or node B includes a radio tower a computer and a server wherein radio tower is further coupled to a cellular phone and a handheld device via wired or wireless communications. Cell site is capable of communicating with mobile devices such as cellular phone and handheld device via radio tower . It should be noted that cell site not shown in may include additional radio towers as well as other land switching circuitry. The cell stations such as cell sites can be configured to support wireless communications as well as wired communications.

An advantage of employing a QoS management is to allow end mobile devices to communicate with the carries data path solution to request priority on demand. For example a voice over Internet protocol VoIP application running on an iPhone could run on a premium mode that prioritizes itself over anyone not paying for a premium mode or on another application like Netflix . The QoS can also benefit high end users in quality access and receive overall quality of a carrier service.

Router in one embodiment includes a QoS management which is capable of adjusting traffic priority for a traffic flow in response to an on demand request requested by a user through a node. A network manager is able to communicate with router via central office . In one aspect central office is coupled to router via connection . Alternatively central office can be configured to reside within router . Router is also capable of providing routing services to remote clients such as client via Internet . Connections which can be either wired wireless or a combination wired and wireless cables are employed to couple clients content provider and nodes to router . Note that client s can be servers routers switches computers user s equipments network equipments websites and so forth.

During an operation router is responsible to route data or packets between connected devices and or nodes such as clients and nodes using a predefined QoS or predefined traffic priorities to ensure smooth routing. Upon issuing an on demand request issued by portable device node processes the request and transmits on demand request to router via connection . After processing on demand request router grants the on demand request and broadcasts the grant to various network devices for facilitating prioritized data transfer.

One advantage of using QoS management is to allow end customer or user applications running on a mobile device to dynamically request higher priority for its data traffic over other traffics. In addition QoS management is able to track and create a payment charge hierarchy to record on demand services thereby the on demand service can be billed or charged accordingly. For example when a person is expecting an important call he or she could temporarily increase the VoIP QoS on his or her device to ensure the flow is prioritized over its neighbors for music streaming. Another example would be business users working on a presentation or contract that needs to be sent to a customer at the last minute in which the transmission can be prioritized to ensure that the customer receives the presentation or contract without delay.

After receipt of an on demand request router establishes a prioritized traffic channel or priority channel between content provider and portable device in accordance with the request. Priority channel is able to provide a higher prioritized QoS for the packets travel between content provider and portable device . For example if a user of portable device watches a live footfall game from device the user can request an enhanced QoS from content provider such as a local television station for non interrupted data streaming service until the game is over. Upon checking the availability of the higher QoS router grants the on demand request and subsequently broadcasts the grant to various network devices such as node and content provider to facilitate prioritized data streaming.

QoS management which can be a software hardware or combination of hardware and software component is able to adjust traffic QoS in accordance with an on demand priority request from an end user. In one aspect QoS management is capable of providing a different level of QoS in order to guarantee a throughput level. For example Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM based data transfer can support different levels of QoS which limits end to end latency to a predefined time frame. Note that ATM is a network protocol or technology capable of transferring data in packet formats which have predefined fixed sizes. ATM allows video audio and computer data to be transmitted over the same network circuit. To simplify forgoing description ATM is herein used to describe as a network protocol for various embodiments of the present invention. It should be noted that other types of network transferring protocol can be used in place of ATM.

To identify an on demand priority request QoS management activates priority module to identify the types of priority which is requested and initiates length module to determine how long the prioritized QoS needs to be maintained in accordance with the on demand request. After checking priority chart to determine the availability of prioritized QoS service module determines a type of network service to be used to establish the priority channel. Upon notifying the grant of prioritized QoS to a particular flow the priority service s is recorded for billing to an account at a later time.

Priority module in one embodiment includes a list of prioritized QoS capable of identifying or dictating levels of traffic priorities to be used. For example during an ATM network service priority module may have a list of prioritized QoS including unspecified bit rate UBR available bit rate ABR variable bit rate VBR constant bit rate CBR wherein CBR has the highest priority while UBR has the lowest priority. While CBR employs a fixed bit rate to provide a steady stream VBR provides a predefined throughput capacity despite the data packets may not be sent evenly. ABR usually guarantees minimum capacity for data transmission and permits data packet to be sent at a higher rate or a burst rate when the network is available. UBR offers a data transmission with no guarantee to any throughput levels. In one aspect priority module selects a type of prioritized QoS after identifying a higher QoS for a specified flow in the on demand request. In one example the on demand request identifies a level of QoS such as CBR or UBR for a specified flow or routing path.

Length module in one aspect manages duration of a priority channel capable of delivering prioritized QoS that should be maintained in accordance with the on demand request. The duration of a priority channel can be determined by a predefined time frame once the on demand request is processed. For example upon granting of prioritized QoS a priority channel is established and maintained for a predefined or preset duration such as two 2 hours. Alternatively the duration may be set to the length of a selected program such as a football game. For instance the priority channel ends when a selected football game ends. The duration or length of a priority channel can also be set indefinitely or permanently until a request for resetting is received. In another embodiment length module warns the end user that his or her prioritized QoS is about to be prematurely terminated due to other higher priority requesters. Upon noticing the warnings the user can optionally requests a higher prioritized QoS to maintain the service or gets ready to be bump off.

Priority Chart shows an up limit or maximum allowed priority channels that can be concurrently running without impeding regular unprioritized data traffics. A Chart is used to record or list currently running priority channels and a number of available priority channels that can be assigned. In one aspect priority chart is also capable of providing queuing capability that allows a user to preorder prioritized QoS on a specific time period such as a Super Bowl game time. In one embodiment priority chart is able to check the chart and identify the availability of the prioritized QoS in response to the on demand request.

Service module is configured to determine how to provide identified prioritized QoS in accordance with the on demand request upon determining the type of priority duration and availability of prioritized QoS. To set a prioritized QoS service module establishes a preferred routing path bandwidth enhancement additional flow congestion avoidance or a combination of preferred routing path bandwidth enhancement and or additional flow.

Notification module in one embodiment communicates with other network devices or equipments to facilitate higher prioritized QoS for one or more specified flows. For example notification module notifies or negotiates with relevant nodes or devices to upgrade certain QoS in accordance with one or more on demand requests. Notification module is also capable of notifying an end user that his or her service has been upgraded to a requested QoS. In one embodiment notification module is also capable of providing an option allowing a user to further upgrade his or her services via an on demand request with a higher priority of QoS.

Invoice module which can be a background application records various on demand requests and the duration of prioritized QoS to accounts or users accounts. Invoice module will use its recorded data to bill or invoice users for the higher prioritized QoS. In one aspect invoice module enables a carrier or provider to charge a fee for providing higher QoS based on the recorded or measured usage of the service.

QoS management in one embodiment includes digital processor s controllers and memories capable of performing functions described in priority module length module priority chart service module notification module and invoice . Note that the functions described in modules can be separated into more detailed tasks or merged into a larger function or functions depending on the applications. Additional logic blocks may also be added to QoS management to facilitate and provide higher QoS.

If the length of the prioritized service is preset or predefined the process moves to block to identify the duration. Alternatively if the length of the prioritized service is indefinite the process proceeds to block to ensure that the priority channel is set permanently until a request for resetting is received. Note that additional types of duration controls may be added at block .

Upon search through the priority chart at block the process exams whether the requested prioritized QoS is available at block . If it is available the process proceeds to block to establish higher QoS for a specified flow including setting up a priority channel. At block the process broadcasts the grant of higher QoS to related or associated nodes or network devices. Upon notifying the user at block about granting of the prioritized QoS the process records the usage of the prioritized QoS at block . The measured usage is subsequently used for billings. If the prioritized QoS is not available at block the process proceeds to block and notifies the user that his or her requested QoS is denied.

It should be noted that the embodiments of the present invention are configured to work with application programming interfaces APIs or standardizing APIs provided by network gear to allow per flow prioritization. APIs may be accessible by end mobile devices in the development environments for applications on portable devices. To alleviate the need to work on multiple platforms of APIs development environments for example may create an application capable of running in the background which allows a user or users to choose a priority or priorities for the application s .

The exemplary embodiment of the present invention includes various processing steps which will be described below. The steps of the embodiment may be embodied in machine or computer executable instructions. The instructions can be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose system which is programmed with the instructions to perform the steps of the exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Alternatively the steps of the exemplary embodiment of the present invention may be performed by specific hardware components that contain hard wired logic for performing the steps or by any combination of programmed computer components and custom hardware components. While embodiments of the present invention will be described with reference to the Internet the method and apparatus described herein is equally applicable to other network infrastructures or other data communications environments.

At block upon verifying the availability of higher prioritized QoS in according to the enhanced QoS request the specified traffic flow is prioritized. In one example a priority channel is established between the first and second nodes. The process in one embodiment includes a timer capability that is able to measure usage s of prioritized QoS by a user s . The process is also configured to broadcast the prioritized traffic flow s to relevant node s and notify the user with a priority acknowledgement via the first node.

At block the process is configured to analyze process the usage measurement of prioritized QoS and records the usage to user s account s for billing purposes. It should be noted that the different prioritized QoS is charged at different price.

At block the process routes the information or packets between the first and second nodes in accordance to an identified prioritized QoS. When the duration of the prioritized QoS expires the normal un prioritized QoS resumes for the traffic flow. In one aspect the process forwards a normal priority notification to the user via the first node. The duration of the prioritized QoS may be specifically identified by the enhanced QoS request.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it will be obvious to those of skills in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from this exemplary embodiment s of the present invention and its broader aspects. Therefore the appended claims are intended to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this exemplary embodiment s of the present invention.

