---

title: Robust object recognition by dynamic modeling in augmented reality
abstract: Technologies are generally described for providing a robust object recognition scheme based on dynamic modeling. Correlations in fine scale temporal structure of cellular regions may be employed to group the regions together into higher-order entities. The entities represent a rich structure and may be used to code high level objects. Object recognition may be formatted as elastic graph matching.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08866845&OS=08866845&RS=08866845
owner: Empire Technology Development LLC
number: 08866845
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100310
---
Unless otherwise indicated herein the materials described in this section are not prior art to the claims in this application and are not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

Augmented reality AR refers to a view of a physical real world environment whose elements are augmented by virtual typically computer generated imagery thereby creating a mixed reality. The augmentation may be conventionally in real time and in context with environmental elements such a sporting event a military exercise a game etc. AR technology enables the information about surrounding real world of a person to become interactive and digitally usable by adding object recognition and image generation. Artificial information about the environment and the objects may be stored and retrieved as an information layer separate from a real world view layer.

The present disclosure appreciates that there are several limitations with AR systems. Object recognition is a major component of AR and appearance based approaches are commonly used in object recognition. Appearance based object recognition approaches can handle combined effects of shape reflectance properties pose in the scene illumination conditions and comparable effects. In addition appearance based representations may be acquired through an automatic learning phase unlike traditional shape representations. However various challenges remain with the appearance based recognition technique since it rests on direct appearance based matching and cannot successfully process occlusions outliers and varying backgrounds. In other words the appearance based approach is not robust where the term robustness refers to the results remaining stable in the presence of various types of noise and can tolerate a certain portion of outliers.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure is generally drawn inter alia to methods apparatus systems devices and or computer program products related to robust object recognition in AR systems based on dynamic modeling and graph matching.

Briefly stated a robust object recognition scheme based on dynamic modeling employs correlations in fine scale temporal structure of cellular regions to group these regions together into higher order entities. The entities represent a rich structure and may be used to code high level objects. Object recognition may be formatted as elastic graph matching.

AR system includes sensors configured to capture live images of real scene objects . Sensors may be digital cameras webcams and or similar image capturing devices that may provide either analog or digital images as captured images. The captured image s may be provided by the sensors to an image processing sub system which may be adapted to perform digitization of analog images into digital images receive digital images and or process digital images. Processing provided by image processing sub system may include determining locations of feature points in the images computation of affine projections tracking of edges filtering and or similar operations. Image processing sub system may also be configured to provide projection information such as results of the above described operations to reality engine . Reality engine may be adapted to execute a graphics process to render scenes based on the captured images. Virtual objects may be rendered by reality engine which may be arranged to employ dynamic modeling and graph matching as discussed in more detail below.

Image generator may be adapted to receive reference image s from sensors receive virtual object s from reality engine and overlay the captured real scene images with the virtual object s to generate an augmented scene. In one example implementation the merging of the virtual and real scene images may be performed through luminance keying where the virtual image is the key input and the real scene image is the reference input. In that implementation the real scene image may provide a background signal for the luminance key and also serve as a synchronization signal for the keyer image generator . Display is one example visualization mechanism that can be used to generate an augmented scene for viewing by a user. As discussed previously other types of display devices may be used to provide visualization of the augmented scene for a user.

Image processing sub system reality engine and image generator may be implemented as separate applications an integrated application a centralized service or a distributed service on one more computing devices. The one or more computing devices may be either heterogeneous or homogeneous and may be implemented as a general purpose computing devices or a special purpose computing devices that may be comprised as a standalone computer a networked computer system a general purpose processing unit e.g. a micro processor a micro controller a digital signal processor or DSP etc. or a special purpose processing unit. If executed on different computing devices various components of the AR system may be configured to communicate with one another over one or more networks.

The network s may comprise any topology of servers clients switches routers modems Internet service providers and any appropriate communication media e.g. wired or wireless communications . A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic network topology. The network s may include a secure network such as an enterprise network e.g. a LAN WAN or WLAN an unsecure network such as a wireless open network e.g. IEEE 802.11 wireless networks or a world wide network such e.g. the Internet . The network s may also comprise a plurality of distinct networks that are adapted to operate together. The network s are adapted to provide communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation the network s may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

A dynamic modeling based system according to at least some embodiments of the present disclosure may take advantage of a data format based on syntactically linked structures. More precisely images may be represented in the image domain as attributed graphs. Thus the image domain contains a two dimensional array of nodes. Each node at a particular position may include a number of different features. Example feature types may include one or more of local light intensities reflectance properties pose in the scene occlusions and or background variations. However more complex feature types that can be derived through a filtering operation may also be used. The relationships between the nodes in the image domain may be referred to as excitatory connections. An excitatory connection between two nodes is a weighted connection where the weight may be positive i.e. causing a system excitation or positive signal in the system . In some example implementations the neighboring nodes may be connected. In other implementations complex connections between any number of nodes may exist. According to the dynamic model a particular object may be represented by a sub graph of the image domain that can be affected by the object.

The model domain can be a collection of attributed graphs i.e. idealized copies of sub graphs in the image domain. Thus excitatory connections can exist between the image domain and the model domain. These excitatory connections can preserve some features. For example if two nodes exist one in the image domain and one in the model domain they may have a connection between them when they belong to the corresponding feature types. With such a structure object recognition may be realized as a process of graph matching an attributed graph in the model domain encoding an object may be locally distorted to reflect the deformations and changes in perspective.

In an example graph matching two graphs may be considered approximately identical when there exists an approximate neighborhood preserving and feature type preserving mapping between multiple nodes at the image domain and at the model domain. Graph matching may be implemented according to some embodiments by grouping and selectively activating the nodes in the sub graph of the image domain. This may be achieved in part without reference to the model domain simply by binding nodes with similar feature vectors together. As a result nodes within the parts of the image corresponding to one object tend to synchronize their activity while nodes between different image segments tend to de synchronize and break their dynamic links. Next the nodes and links in the sub graph may be identified and activated at the model domain i.e. a connection pattern retrieved from an associative memory for connection patterns . Following the identification and activation of links in the model domain the connections between nodes with similar features in the image domain and in the model domain many to many may be reduced to a consistent i.e. topology preserving one to one mapping. It should be noted that the above described operations do not need to be carried out sequentially. Indeed a system according to embodiments may perform these actions in an interlaced fashion since each operation may need partial results of the others.

Returning to block diagram shows a two dimensional 2D image of a three dimensional 3D object that may be provided to a dynamic modeling block of an AR system according to at least one of the described embodiments. Dynamic modeling block may be adapted to perform image domain transformation s such as filtering vertex and edge attributes may be determined and an attributed image domain graph with vertex and edge labels may be provided to graph matching block . Graph matching block may be adapted to identify and activate links between nodes of the sub graphs identify and activate the links in the model domain and reduce the connections to a one to one mapping as discussed previously. The resulting patterns may be provided to any consuming application such as a rendering engine.

Dynamic modeling sub system may be implemented as hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. For example a generic purpose or specialized video processor may be configured to perform the operations described below. An example dynamic modeling sub system is adapted to receive a 2D image sequence as input . A goal of object recognition using dynamic models according to embodiments is to find a data format for encoding information on attributes and links of graphs in image domain and to transfer the information to the model domain. Pre processing the images may involve estimating actual attribute values of each neuron in image domain. This may be accomplished by time averaging from a set of fluctuating images e.g. a sequence of images from a video with respect to each neuron. Bindings between neurons may be encoded in the form of temporal correlation which plays the role of synaptic weights for signal transmission.

As a first step the sequence of digital images e.g. captured from a video or stationary images may be processed to generate graph representation i.e. graph attribute vectors at box . An example process of graph extraction and representation is illustrated below in conjunction with . As a result of the pre processing and graph extraction graphs in image domain are obtained. These are referred to as full dimension graphs since a reduction in dimension structure is to follow. Similarly attributed graphs may be defined and set up in model domain at box resulting in the model domain graph database . When an image is formed in the image domain the local feature detectors centered at one of its points may be bundled to form a composite feature detector. A composite feature detector may be provided to the model domain to be compared as a whole to other composite feature detectors thereby establishing attributed model domain graphs. The use of composite feature detectors may reduce computational and memory burden on the AR system by decreasing the need to train new individual features as detectors for complex features before new object classes can be recognized.

The graphs in model domain may act as a prototype graph database with which the graph matching algorithm can be implemented. A prototype graph selection process as described in may yield prototype graph set which may be used in decomposition of graphs in the image and model domains . The model domain graph database is also an assemblage of attributed graphs idealized copies of sub graphs in image domain. After establishing a prototype sub graphs set the extracted graphs in image domain may be reduced into graphs according to predefined rules. The reduced dimension graphs in image domain may be composed of a combination of subsets from the prototype graphs. Similarly the graphs in model domain from model domain graph database may also be decomposed into a combination of subsets from the prototype graphs resulting in graphs with reduced dimension in structure in image and model domains respectively .

The links that represent neighborhood relationships within the image domain and within the model domain may then be set up as discussed below in conjunction with . Neural objects thereby acquire internal structure and their relationships can now be constrained to combinations with matched syntactical structure forming the basis for object recognition.

Operations may include one or more of blocks and or . At block SWCC a graph matching algorithm implemented in a computing device may be adapted to pre process attributed image domain graphs connection indicated by reference numeral . The pre processing may involve estimating actual attribute values of each neuron in image domain which may be done by time averaging from a set of fluctuating images with respect to each neuron. Binding between neurons may be encoded in a form of temporal correlation which may be utilized as synaptic weights for signal transmission.

Block may be followed by block . At block IDS the nodes in the sub graph I of the image domain may be grouped. The grouping or segmentation may be achieved by binding nodes with similar feature vectors together such nodes being likely to exist within the same object. In this manner nodes within parts of the image or scene corresponding to one object tend to synchronize their activity while nodes between different image segments tend to de synchronize and break their dynamic links.

Block may be followed by block . At block CFC a cost function check may be performed as part of graph matching based on the graph attributes provided from the dynamic modeling sub system. A cost function is a measure of how far away a particular solution is from an optimal solution for a given problem. In this case the optimization involves the matching of vertex labels and edge labels.

Block may be followed by block . At block FAGM attributed graph matching may be applied for object recognition. Attributed graph matching can be based on finding and selectively activating a sub graph composed of part sub graph I of the image domain that is identical or approximately identical to a stored model graph M if the stored model graph M exists connection indicated by reference numeral . The one to one connections between corresponding points in I and M may also be determined as part of attributed graph matching. In particular the process may be implemented by a search for a set of vertex positions which simultaneously optimizes the matching of vertex labels and edge labels according to an established cost function as described above. The many to many connections between nodes with similar features in I and M may also be pared down to a consistent one to one mapping during the operation described in block .

Block may be followed by block . At block BL the image may be back labeled with recognized patterns. The graph matching process may include events with simultaneous activation of a block of neighboring neurons in I and a block of neighboring neurons in M with corresponding positions. As a consequence the dynamic binding between matched graphs may be used to back label the image with the patterns being recognized and to form representations of composite objects and scenes based on the patterns. The patterns may be an output of the graph matching sub system performing operations .

A major challenge in performing graph matching in real time lies in the high complexity of graph models. The complexity may be caused by the graphs complex structure and the intrinsic high dimensionality of graphs. According to some of the embodiments an automated method for constructing a lower dimensional vector representation a subset of all graph representation may be employed by developing an effective graph selection method.

The process may begin with input block CPGS an initial set of n prototype graphs P p . . . p may be constructed for example by selecting the graphs randomly. The initial set may include simpler structural graphs and may be used to span a more complete graph models in both image domain and model domain. Prototype graphs sets may be constructed from a training graph set in model domain using a variety of prototype graph selection algorithms. Then the extracted graphs from input images domain and the training graph in model domain may be decomposed into subsets of graphs with respect to each domain which are simpler in structure while keeping the most informative information of the original ones for recognition.

Specifically the goal of prototype graph selection may be to choose a subset of graphs from the training set in model domain e.g. from model domain graph database that represent the different classes precisely with respect to their graph structure. The prototype graph may be small enough to span a more complicated graph structure in both image domain and model domain. The prototype graphs may simultaneously avoid redundancies in terms of selection of similar graphs and carry sufficient information.

At block CIS an n sets Smay be selected such that each set includes one prototype S p . . . s p. At block ST TFA G training graph set s from the model domain may be scanned to find a graph g T P. For each graph g its nearest neighbor p P may be found and the graph under consideration added to the set Scorresponding to prototype pas shown by blocks CDBg P INN and Ag TSS . These steps may result in n disjointed sets with T S.

At block CCcP a center cmay be found for each set S. cmay be a graph for which a maximum distance to other objects in Sis minimum. For each center c where c p an output prototype graph set Smay be provided as shown be decision block c p and output block OPGSS . For each center c where c p pmay be replaced by cin Sas shown in block RpBcIS and the process returned to block for obtaining another training set. The process may end when no more changes in the sets Soccur. The prototype graphs may be provided by the centers of the n disjointed sets.

While embodiments have been discussed above using specific examples components and configurations they are intended to provide a general guideline to be used for robust object recognition through dynamic modeling in AR systems. These examples do not constitute a limitation on the embodiments which may be implemented using other components modules and configurations using the principles described herein. For example any suitable cost function may be used in matching vertex and edge labels. Furthermore actions discussed above may be performed in various orders especially in an interlaced fashion.

A second step may include forming links between each node. The result may be so called edge labels of the graph representation representing the connectivity between the vertices. Thus an input image may be converted into an attributed graph in the image domain with attributes feature vectors attached to both vertices and edges. An object may consequently be a sub graph representation in image domain with similar attributes.

When an image is extracted to be a graph in the image domain the local feature detectors centered at one of its points may correspond to being bundled to form a composite feature detector as shown in diagram . The composite feature detector may be provided to the model domain and compared to other composite feature detectors there. This may eliminate or reduce a necessity to train new individual features as detectors for complex features before new object classes can be recognized.

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor may include one more levels of caching such as a level cache memory a processor core and registers . Example processor core may include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. An example memory controller may also be used with processor or in some implementations memory controller may be an internal part of processor .

Depending on the desired configuration system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory etc. or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include an AR module that is arranged to adjust operational parameters of an object recognition system using dynamic modeling and attributed graph matching as discussed above. Program data may include one or more of imaging data model data graph data and similar data as discussed above in conjunction with . This data may be useful in generating the one to one mapping between image domain sub graphs and model domain sub graphs as is described herein. In some embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on operating system such that three dimensional objects are recognized and virtual representations generated as described herein. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within the inner dashed line.

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . Data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage devices and non removable storage devices are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output devices peripheral interfaces and communication devices to basic configuration via bus interface controller . Example output devices include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device etc. or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner etc. via one or more I O ports . An example communication device includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. A modulated data signal may be a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that include any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations. Moreover computing device may be implemented as a networked system or as part of a general purpose or specialized server.

Example embodiments may also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described herein. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in the present disclosure. Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some of the operations while other operations are performed by machines. These human operators need not be collocated with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program. In other examples the human interaction can be automated such as by pre selected criteria that are machine automated.

A process of employing dynamic modeling and graph matching in AR object recognition may begin with block C2D ITID . At block a 2D image of a 3D object in the real scene may be obtained by a processor of a computing device e.g. processor or graphics processing unit of computing device . Each node in the image domain may consist of a number of different feature detector neurons. A set of feature detectors may be selected and applied to each pixel of the 2D image in an optional filtering process.

Block may be followed by block ELBN. At block links between each node vertex may be set up resulting in edge labels which represent the connectivity between each node. Thus an image can be converted into an attributed graph in the image domain with attributes attached to both vertices and edges.

Block may be followed by block DAGIID. At block the attributed graphs are defined through the vertex and edge labels. The blocks through may be performed by a dynamic modeling module of a processor of a first computing device e.g. processor or graphics processing unit of a computing device . Blocks through may on the other hand be performed by a graph matching module of the same processor or another processor on a second computing device coupled to the first computing device through a network. Of course all blocks may be performed by a single module as well.

Block may be followed by block EAAVOEN. At block actual attribute values of each node may be estimated in image domain by for example time averaging from a set of fluctuating images with respect to each node. The estimation is part of a pre process which may also include a synaptic weight and connection computation for the links.

Block may be followed by block MAG. At block the attributed graphs may be matched based on finding and selectively activating nodes in the sub graphs of the image domain. The one to one connection between corresponding points in the sub graphs of the image domain and model domain may also be determined as part of attributed graph matching. This initial portion of graph matching also referred to as segmentation in the image domain may be achieved by binding nodes with similar feature vectors together.

Block may be followed by block I ALIS G . At block the second portion of attributed graphs may be accomplished by retrieving a connection pattern for the nodes in both domains from an associative memory. As part of identification and activation of the links the matching of vertex labels and edge labels may be optimized according to an established cost function.

Block may be followed by block MC. At block the many to many connections between nodes with similar features in image domain and model domain sub graphs may be reduced to one to one connections. As a result the dynamic binding between matched graphs may be used to back label the image with the patterns being recognized. Representations of composite objects and scenes may then be formed based on the patterns by rendering software and or hardware on the same computing devices or other computing devices.

The blocks included in the above described process are for illustration purposes. Object recognition through dynamic modeling and graph matching may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional blocks. In some examples the blocks may be performed in a different order. In some other examples various blocks may be eliminated. In still other examples various blocks may be divided into additional blocks or combined together into fewer blocks.

In some implementations signal bearing medium depicted in may encompass a computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write R W CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example program product may be conveyed to one or more modules of the processor by an RF signal bearing medium where the signal bearing medium is conveyed by a wireless communications medium e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming with the IEEE 802.11 standard .

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software may become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein may be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples may be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In one embodiment several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part may be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in terms of the particular embodiments described in this application which are intended as illustrations of various aspects. Many modifications and variations can be made without departing from its spirit and scope as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Functionally equivalent methods and apparatuses within the scope of the disclosure in addition to those enumerated herein will be apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing descriptions. Such modifications and variations are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. The present disclosure is to be limited only by the terms of the appended claims along with the full scope of equivalents to which such claims are entitled. It is to be understood that this disclosure is not limited to particular methods reagents compounds compositions or biological systems which can of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory etc. and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein may be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity of gantry systems control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities .

A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems. The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermediate components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically connectable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to embodiments containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers means at least two recitations or two or more recitations .

Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

In addition where features or aspects of the disclosure are described in terms of Markush groups those skilled in the art will recognize that the disclosure is also thereby described in terms of any individual member or subgroup of members of the Markush group.

As will be understood by one skilled in the art for any and all purposes such as in terms of providing a written description all ranges disclosed herein also encompass any and all possible subranges and combinations of subranges thereof. Any listed range can be easily recognized as sufficiently describing and enabling the same range being broken down into at least equal halves thirds quarters fifths tenths etc. As a non limiting example each range discussed herein can be readily broken down into a lower third middle third and upper third etc. As will also be understood by one skilled in the art all language such as up to at least greater than less than and the like include the number recited and refer to ranges which can be subsequently broken down into subranges as discussed above. Finally as will be understood by one skilled in the art a range includes each individual member. Thus for example a group having 1 3 cells refers to groups having 1 2 or 3 cells. Similarly a group having 1 5 cells refers to groups having 1 2 3 4 or 5 cells and so forth.

While various aspects and embodiments have been disclosed herein other aspects and embodiments will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The various aspects and embodiments disclosed herein are for purposes of illustration and are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

