---

title: Method and system for effecting straight-through-processing of trades of various financial instruments
abstract: A Straight-Through-Processing (STP) trading platform provides a fully electronic and seamless solution to all substantially aspects of the trading cycle for fixed income instruments and other financial instruments. In an exemplary embodiment, all participants to a trade transaction have access to computer software that facilitates trade order management, trade order generation, trade execution (including electronic axes), trade allocation, allocation acknowledgement, trade confirmation, and finally acquisition of settlement instructions. In said exemplary embodiment, the STP trading platform includes computer software modules including at least an account management module and an electronic trading module to handle the various stages of executing a trade, confirming the trade, and facilitating settlement of the trade.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07882019&OS=07882019&RS=07882019
owner: Tradeweb Markets LLC
number: 07882019
owner_city: Jersey City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100723
---
This application is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 103 267 which is a Continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 808 820 filed on Mar. 25 2004 entitled Method And System For Effecting Straight Through Processing Of Trades Of Various Financial Instruments which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 457 845 filed Mar. 25 2003 the entire disclosure of all of which is incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

The present invention relates generally to electronic trading methods and systems and more particularly to electronic trading methods and systems that provide straight through processing.

Fixed income instruments such as treasuries mortgages commercial paper offerings corporate and government bonds and the like traditionally have been traded using an inefficient error prone manual process. Recently the market for fixed income instruments has undergone a certain degree of automation. While such automation represents an improvement to the manual process many of the problems and inefficiencies associated with the traditional manual process still exist.

To summarize the manual process a customer desiring to buy or sell a fixed income instrument first would make an inquiry or a request for a quote to a dealer that is willing to buy and sell such as principal. The customer may be any person or entity desiring to trade but generally refers to buy side institutions such as investment funds institutional investors money market funds and mortgage brokers to name a few. The dealer generally is any person or entity that is registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or an equivalent non U.S. regulator to deal i.e. to make a market for financial instruments for its own account at its bid price or sell from its own account at its ask or offer price . In the past to initiate the manual trading process a customer would make an inquiry for example via the telephone or facsimile transmission. Frequently the customer would make an inquiry to several dealers with which the customer has a relationship before identifying a dealer willing to trade in the desired instrument. Because the manual process required the customer to telephone each of the dealers individually the process of requesting price quotes could take several minutes during which time the market may have moved against the customer. Once the customer identified an acceptable dealer the customer and dealer would verbally agree to the negotiated price for the desired fixed income instrument and execute the trade.

Upon verbal agreement both the customer and dealer would manually write the trade details on a trade ticket. A trade ticket typically comprised several layers of carbon paper such that at least one layer could be passed to the back office personnel responsible for confirming trades. These processes are prone to error due to the manual nature of the recordation process. In this case the trade details may be electronically transmitted to back office systems operated by personnel responsible for confirming trades.

Executing the trade however is only part of the trade cycle. Back office functions such as confirmation allocation and settlement were also performed manually. Rule 10b 10 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 10b 10 and equivalent non U.S. rules relating to confirmation and clearance of trades require that a dealer provide certain written disclosures to a customer immediately after the completion of a transaction to confirm the trade. In order to create the Rule 10b 10 confirmation the dealer would manually extract the details of the trade such as those passed on the trade ticket and create a paper confirmation an inefficient process prone to potential human error.

As for allocation the customer if trading on behalf of several client accounts would have to transmit allocation instructions to the dealer regarding the financial instruments being bought or sold to any of the number of different sub accounts. More specifically a customer entering into a large block trade on behalf of several accounts would provide allocation instructions to the dealer for example via the telephone or via facsimile. Again this manual process was open to human error not only in providing and recording the proper instructions but also in propagating the correct instructions to the other back office personnel responsible for other functions such as confirmation and settlement.

In order to settle allocated trades a customer would deliver settlement instructions e.g. Central Securities Depository CSD settlement data including the CSD address swift codes ABA number account number and account name to a dealer via facsimile or telephone. The dealer would manually input this information into their internal systems to generate the confirmation and to facilitate clearance and settlement of the securities traded. Following the customer s approval of the information the dealer would provide the trade details and settlement instructions to the relevant clearing agency to effect settlement of the trade. Similar to the trade execution phase there was no direct link between customers dealers and clearing institutions to exchange trade details and settlement instructions during the settlement process. Thus the manual trading and settlement process was prone to errors and often took several days to complete.

The traditional manual process recently has given way to electronic trading systems as mentioned above. In general although the electronic trading systems have several advantages over the manual process such electronic trading systems have focused on the discreet parts of the trading cycle and consequently suffer from a lack of compatibility and interoperability. Furthermore existing electronic trading systems in large part simply automate the manual process and thereby perpetuate the inefficiencies of the manual process and fail to provide needed new functionality. As discussed below because existing electronic trading systems lack compatibility across the various stages of the trade cycle and fail to automate key post trade functions existing systems have failed to eliminate significant sources of error and inefficiencies.

More specifically because electronic trading systems are directed to discreet parts of the trading cycle such systems do not adequately provide a means to achieve straight through processing STP of trades namely to execute block trades allocate block trades to sub accounts confirm the trade details allocations and settlement instructions and settle the trades based on such information. Absent custom built communication interfaces a system directed to one aspect of the trade cycle typically cannot automatically pass recoded information to a system directed to another aspect of the trade cycle. Thus the information must be manually duplicated and re entered at various points during the trading cycle.

For example even where a dealer uses an electronic trading system to effectuate a trade the dealer must manually input details of the trade into a separate back office system in order to generate confirmations and facilitate the settlement process. As a result the post trade confirmation and settlement process remains open to possible human error even where electronic trading systems are used. Moreover typical electronic post trade allocation confirmation systems are often incompatible with electronic settlement instruction databases and systems that provide trade details regarding trades executed in non electronic formats such as via telephone thereby forcing dealers to maintain redundant systems. Although an improvement to traditional manual processes unnecessary duplication of records and potential delays with delivery of trade details allocations confirmations and settlement instructions and in the settlement of trades still exist.

Similarly although many market participants have begun using electronic back office trade management systems such systems are typically incompatible with front office electronic trade execution systems. Thus even if a trade is executed electronically the trade details must be manually input into the various back office systems. In short the electronic trade allocation and settlement of fixed income instruments remains a fractured process that is subject to inefficiencies and errors and prevents efficient straight through processing of trades.

Furthermore efficiencies provided by existing electronic trading systems are typically limited to only a portion of a dealer s or customer s trading volume. Dealers frequently enter into trades via more than one electronic system and over the phone. These electronic systems while providing increased efficiency for trades conducted on each system are incompatible with each other and with manual processes making it impossible to recognize a benefit of one system across all phases of the trading cycle. Indeed such disparate systems can add to the complexity and inefficiency of management of a customer s or dealer s entire trading volume.

The inefficiencies of existing electronic systems are further exacerbated due to the lack of uniformity across market participants. Because trades must be accepted and confirmed at least by the two parties to the trade and sometimes third and fourth parties and because different parties often utilize incompatible systems there is presently no system available that can process trades from generation to execution to allocation to confirmation and finally to settlement to achieve true straight through processing of trades.

In addition to incompatibility among electronic trading systems limiting their effectiveness existing electronic trading systems simply have automated the traditional manual process without changing the general trading cycle paradigm and without adding new features to enhance the usability or efficiency of the systems. As such the existing electronic trading systems have many of the inherent inefficiencies as the manual trading.

Thus a need exists for a system and method for effecting straight through processing of trades and more particularly for a system and method for enabling electronic execution of trades an electronic allocation and acceptance system that is integrated with a standing settlement instructions database such that settlement instructions can be propagated throughout the trading cycle to reduce the possibility of costly and time consuming error inherent in the tradition manual process.

Furthermore there is a need for a system and method for generating electronic trade confirmations that conform to regulatory standards to permit the virtually seamless execution allocation acceptance confirmation and settlement of trades.

Moreover because most existing fixed income electronic trading systems merely implement the traditional customer inquiry based and inventory based trading paradigms such electronic trading systems do not provide a means for permitting dealers to initiate trading by transmitting executable firm trade offers. In the industry a message from a dealer to a customer regarding a trade is commonly referred to as an axe. Presently dealer axes are communicated to customers via telephone or some other electronic based messaging system such as through Bloomberg L. P. s BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service electronic mail or an electronic indication of interest IOI system . These systems however are inefficient for the transmission of axes for several reasons. Such systems do not permit the transmission of executable axes that are actionable by one or more customers to execute a trade. Thus a need exists for trading systems and methods that provide increased liquidity and more particularly that allow dealers an improved means for initiating trades.

Various embodiments of the present invention satisfy the foregoing as well as other needs. More specifically such embodiments generally relate to an electronic trading platform that provides straight through processing STP of various financial instruments including but not limited to liquid fixed income instruments. The STP trading platform e.g. systems and methods described herein overcomes the shortcomings of present trading systems and methods for the trading allocation confirmation and settlement of fixed income instruments.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the STP trading platform has the ability to execute trades dynamically allocate trades according to customer instructions confirm the trade details and allocations and provide accurate settlement instructions for the trades using a centralized database of standing settlement instructions.

The STP trading platform also is capable of generating electronic confirmations to facilitate confirmation and settlement of trades. Further the STP trading platform is capable of leveraging it unique position as a centralized trading allocation confirm the trade details and allocations and settlement platform to provide customers and dealers with advanced reporting of various industry and trade data. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the STP trading platform permits participants to initiate trade inquires execute trades allocate trades to sub accounts confirm the trade details and allocations and electronically confirm trades so as to eliminate the need to manually input and re input trade data in multiple systems designed to handle only one aspect of the trading cycle. Moreover by maintaining a centralized database of standing settlement instructions the described STP trading platform reduces the possibility of trade failures due to inaccuracies in the provisions of settlement instructions between customers and dealers. Thus the standardized and integrated approach of the STP trading platform both streamlines and comprehensively improves the trading process. Due to integration of such functionality the trading platform also provides an electronic paperless solution for the entire trading cycle including trade order generation trade execution trade allocation allocation and trade detail acknowledgement electronic trade confirmation and access to standing settlement instructions to facilitate settlement of trades.

Certain embodiments described herein further satisfy the needs of the dealers to initiate binding electronic trade inquiries or electronic axes . The binding electronic axe functionality of such embodiments adds an additional layer of liquidity for dealers who traditionally could only initiate actionable trades via the Interdealer Broker market which is comprised solely of other dealers and is conducted in an anonymous manner as compared to the dealer to customer fully disclosed model . Thus by permitting dealers to initiate trade inquiries in an efficient and binding manner the dealer has access to an additional layer of market liquidity while its customer base is afforded the opportunity to see real time firm market prices information a composite pricing matrix can only approximate.

In an exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform comprises one or more software applications operative on a server system along with data storage devices and communication devices to achieve straight through processing of the entire trading cycle.

Participants to a transaction have access to computer software that facilitates trade order management trade order generation trade execution including electronic axes trade allocation allocation and trade details acknowledgement trade confirmation and finally acquisition of settlement instructions. In the exemplary embodiment presently being described the STP trading platform includes computer software modules including at least an account management module an electronic trading module and a back office management module. The operation and functionality of these modules is discussed below.

Thus as is evident from the above description the STP trading platform integrates various software modules and communication links to process the originating execution allocation acknowledgement of allocation and trade details electronic confirmation and enriching details with settlement instructions of trades. Additional features and advantageous of the system are described further below.

In an exemplary embodiment as shown in a computerized STP trading platform interconnects the computers of customers custodians such as a bank agent trust company or other organization responsible for safeguarding the assets of another person or entity like a customer clearing institutions and dealers via existing communications network such as the Internet. Moreover as illustrated in the STP trading platform preferably utilizes a distributed software application arrangement as will be further described below in the System Architecture section of the present application to provide the straight through processing STP of trades. Although the exemplary embodiments described herein are described in terms of a distributed networked software solution operative in a client server environment a wholly server based or client based approach could be adopted so long as the system was configured to provide the functionality disclosed herein.

A summary of the trading cycle will now be described. The typical trading cycle begins with traders for customers accessing indicative market pricing feeds although as described below trades can be initiated through an internal order management system. Indicative market pricing feeds or composite price matrices such as those shown and described herein generally receive near real time indicative pricing data from dealers. The price data is then input into a software algorithm to generate the composite price screen. The operation of the composite price algorithm is not critical to the present invention and therefore specifics of the algorithm are not discussed. The composite price screens are generated by the software algorithm operative of the STP trading platform servers shown in as servers and communicated through a network to both the customer and dealer computer systems .

With reference to operative on the customer computer system is a customer side software client that includes an electronic trading component and a back office management component . The customer side software client is configured to receive and display the composite price screens and to permit customer traders to create trade inquiries search dealer offerings receive dealer axes execute trades allocate trades and perform various other back office functions as further described below. The customer generally views a composite price screen so as to gather information relating to a particular fixed income instrument. Dealers may also view composite price screens to keep apprised of market trends. As described below the customer can initiate a trade inquiry from the composite price screens.

In general the STP trading platform operates according to an inquiry based trading environment. Thus typically a customer desiring to buy or sell financial instruments makes an electronic inquiry of one or more dealers for prices at which the instruments can be bought or sold. Because multiple dealers may be competing against one another this type of inquiry is sometimes referred to as competitive auction based inquiry. In other instances for example in the case of commercial paper offerings CPOs the STP trading platform may be configured to operate according to an inventory based trading environment in which dealers post inventories of various financial instruments from which customers can make purchases.

In the exemplary embodiment being described dealers interact with a dealer side software client operative on the dealer system . Operating in connection with the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform an electronic trading component of the dealer side software client permits dealers to receive trade inquiries from customers create axes manage the provision of market prices to customers in response to the inquiries through the STP trading platform execute trades receive customer allocations confirm trade details and allocation instructions generate confirmations and perform other back office tasks.

Traders for the selected dealers receive inquiries through the STP trading platform into the electronic trading component . The electronic trading component operates to display customer initiated inquiries on a graphical interface that provides dealers with the ability to input the requested bid ask prices into an electronic trade ticket and transmit the prices to the customer. Dealers must typically present both bids and offers to customers so that customers can select to trade either side of a transaction. For instance the dealer must provide bids that represent the price at which the dealer is willing to purchase a particular financial instrument from customers. Similarly the dealer must post offers or ask prices which are the price at which the dealers are willing to sell particular financial instruments to customers. Moreover according to known trading rules dealers must make the prices they post firm for several seconds and thus the dealers will post prices on the wire for several seconds. If the customer selects a particular dealer s price while there is on the wire time remaining then the dealer must honor the firm price and the transaction will automatically be accepted. A trade performed after the on the wire time has expired may be accepted or rejected at the dealer s sole discretion. Prior to a trade being performed after the on the wire time has expired the dealer may refresh its trade price and reset the on the wire time.

Through a trade ticket interface shown and described below displayed by the dealer side electronic trading component dealers can provide market prices in response to customer inquiries and set specific on the wire time periods. Upon creation of a dealer price offer an electronic message is created and an identifier is mapped to the dealer price offer so that a record of the offer can be stored in the trade history database of the STP trading platform . The live market dealer price and on the wire time period is transmitted through the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform to the customer s computer and displayed by the customer side electronic trading component . Thus the customer can see the selected dealers prices along with a countdown of on the wire time. Through the customer side electronic trading component the customer can hit a bid or lift an offer to initiate the purchase or sale as applicable of the selected financial product. This functionality is performed electronically as described further below.

The STP trading platform may also be configured to process trades executed on systems other than through the electronic trading module such as trades executed via telephone or by an alternate electronic trading system. Trade details from alternate systems are electronically imported into the STP trading platform so as to provide the straight through processing functionality described herein for trades executed using these alternate methods. Trade data regarding transactions effected on other systems is imported by dealers into the STP trading platform using application programming interfaces APIs that link the two systems and through data transfer using standardized e.g. FIX format or customized formats as described further below.

Further in the exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform permits dealers to initiate trade inquiries using the dealer side electronic trading component . Such dealer generated trade inquiries are referred to as electronic axes. A dealer using axe generation functionality can input the material terms of an offer to trade a particular instrument. Unlike present systems that permit only non executable messages the dealer can set an on the wire time during which the trade will be accepted by a selected customer or group of customers at the dealer s terms. Once an electronic axe is created the dealer can communicate the electronic axe using the STP trading platform to one or more selected customers. If a customer accepts a dealer electronic axe the trade is executed in the same manner as customer initiated inquiries.

After a transaction is effected through the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform or through an alternate electronic trading system or via telephone and imported into the STP trading platform the customer may make any necessary account allocations to block trades. The functionality to allocate block trades to the customer s sub accounts is provided through integration of the electronic trading module along with the customer side electronic trading component and the account management module and associated account management database . The account management module includes at least in part an account management database for the storage and maintenance of account and sub account information for each of the customers client s accounts. By selecting the breakdown functionality provided by the electronic trading module and customer side electronic trading component the customer s account information can be retrieved from the account management database . A breakdown interface provided by the customer side electronic trading component is populated by account information retrieved from the account management database which includes at least a sub account database. Thus through integration of the electronic trading module and the account management module the customer is provided functionality to selectively allocate the block trade to one or more sub accounts. Once block trades are allocated the customer side electronic trading component of the electronic trading module can generate an allocation ticket for each allocation of the block trade. Thus in essence each allocation is treated for the purposes of allocation acknowledgement electronic confirmation and settlement as a separate allocation ticket. Each allocation ticket contains an identifier that permits the electronic trading module to store a data record for each allocation ticket in the trade history database . The allocation ticket also may contain an identifier linking it to the original block trade executed between the parties.

The electronic trading module of the STP trading platform through integration with the account management module also has the functionality to permit the allocation of trades through the use of integrated inter systems or order management systems of the customer. As will be discussed in greater detail below the STP trading platform can be and preferably is communicatively linked to the internal systems of customers and dealers. As an example many customers operate order management systems OMS shown in as to handle trade generation portfolio management and order routing. Customer software may also electronically handle sub account allocation in an automated fashion. The STP trading platform enables customers to initiate the trading process using OMS and electronically allocate block trades executed on the STP trading platform using associated software. In the exemplary embodiment OMS systems are linked to the STP trading platform using an API which permits allocation details for example to be imported into the STP trading platform so that the allocation details can in turn be transmitted through the STP trading platform to the dealer side computers for acknowledgement.

At this point the trade details which may include a summary of the block trade and the account information for the allocation if applicable may be enriched through interaction with the account management database of the STP trading platform . In the exemplary embodiment the account management database stores standing settlement instructions pertaining to each of the customer accounts. Thus during the process of transmitting the trade details and allocations if any to the dealer side computers the electronic trading module accesses the account management database to retrieve the standing settlement instructions for each designated account of the trade and adds the instructions to the trade details.

It should also be understood that the STP trading platform is designed to record and store in the trade history database a historical record of all transactions executed including a historical audit trail of all phases of the trade cycle to thereby facilitate problem resolution should any issues or disputes arise.

The confirmation process may also be performed on the STP trading platform . According to the exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform provides dealers with the ability to have confirmations electronically generated and transmitted to customers through the STP trading platform in a manner that would satisfy the requirements of applicable government regulations such as SEC Rule 10b 10. For transactions effected through the STP trading platform the transaction information contained in the confirmation is based on the terms of the transaction that have been agreed to between the customer and the dealer over the STP trading platform .

Upon electronic receipt of the trade details including any allocations and the associated settlement instructions dealers can confirm that the trade details and the records of the customers are accurate. If the dealer determines that the details of the customer s allocations are accurate then the dealer can acknowledge the allocation via the STP trading platform . The STP trading platform then dynamically generates an electronic confirmation in accordance with applicable government regulations for example SEC Rule 10b 10 to facilitate the electronic confirmation of trades. As discussed above the STP trading platform is also preferably adapted to handle the processing and confirmation of trades executed either via telephone or via an alternate trading system.

For trades made on alternate trading systems such as dealer trade management system or via telephone the confirmation is based on transaction information that is electronically imported into the STP trading platform by the dealer and affirmed by the applicable customer. In each case the affirmation reflects any allocation among sub accounts that has been made by the customer and accepted by the dealer.

Further in the exemplary embodiment both the customers and dealers are provided access through a back office management module of the STP trading platform to a master trade blotter interface as well as various other summary interfaces. On the customer side the summary interface preferably displays trade information on a dealer by dealer basis. The summary information preferably includes the number of trades the number of trades cancelled or corrected the number of block trades allocated or unallocated the number of tickets generated the number of trades confirmed or unconfirmed and the number of trades for which there are errors. This summary interface allows back office personnel to quickly and efficiently determine whether any executed trades have outstanding issues that require attention. Similarly the dealer side has access to summary trade information on a customer by customer basis.

In an exemplary embodiment as shown in software modules of the STP trading platform are capable of communication with customer side software application components operative on customer computers via a communications network . In a similar way dealer side software application components are operable on dealer computers and capable of communication with the STP trading platform servers . Together the software modules operative on the STP trading platform servers with the client side and dealer side software modules comprise the server client software system of the STP trading platform .

In the exemplary embodiment the client side software application components such as the customer side electronic trading and back office management components and dealer side electronic trading and back office management components are preferably thin clients . With respect to client server applications the term thin client generally refers to a software client designed to be relatively small so that the bulk of the data processing occurs on the server. In the exemplary embodiment of the STP trading platform the customer and dealer electronic trading and back office management components and respectively are relatively small software applications capable of generating graphical user interface templates on the customer and dealer computers such as the exemplary graphical user interface templates shown in which are populated and controlled at least in part by the software modules operative on the centralized STP trading platform servers in communication with customer and dealer computers . Persons of skill will recognize however that the use of thin client technology as opposed to other known and heretofore developed client server technologies is not critical to the present invention.

Generally speaking the electronic trading module is operative on the STP trading platform servers to communicate with and provide functionality to the dealer side and customer side electronic trading components which generate and display graphical user interfaces that are populated by information communicated from dealers e.g. live market pricing data and retrieved from the account management database e.g. account information and settlement instructions as described further below.

The account management module is also preferably a server side software application operative on the STP trading platform servers and accessible by customer and dealer computers via a communications network such as the Internet. In the exemplary embodiment the account management module is database management software programmed with graphical interfaces to provide a web based program that can display information retrieved from the account management database via the Internet and create update modify or delete as applicable account records including settlement instructions. Via known communications networks customers and dealers can access their accounts through the account management module of the STP trading platform . Through integration of the STP trading platform modules the account management database is also accessible by the electronic trading module so as to permit the electronic trading module to retrieve information from the account management database when necessary.

Customer and dealer computers are any type of personal or network computer such as an IBM compatible computer running an Intel chipset and having an operating system such as Microsoft Windows NT 2000 XP and the like and preferably running a browser program such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator . It is also within the scope of the present invention that computers may be handheld or table computing devices such as a personal digital assistant PDA pocket PC and tablet PC or the like. Customer computers have access to a communications network via a modem or broadband connection to permit data communication between the participants and the STP trading platform .

Various input and output devices are preferably provided with the customer and dealer computers including by way of non limiting example a display e.g. cathode ray tube CRT liquid crystal display LCD etc. and an input device e.g. a keyboard mouse touch pad or light pen . The customer and dealer computers would also preferably include a storage device such as for example a magnetic disk drive and magnetic disk a CD ROM drive and CD ROM DVD or other equivalent device. The specific hardware combination configuration is not crucial to the instant invention and may vary as a matter of design choice within the functional parameters disclosed herein. Users of the STP trading platform typically interact with the GUI s displayed by the software modules by clicking on numbers or graphics e.g. buttons that are displayed on the GUI s. Persons of skill will understand that the present invention is not limited to clicking with a computer mouse but includes use of any other device for indicating an action with graphics based software such as a touch pad light pen touch sensitive display screen and the like.

The STP trading platform servers may be computer servers of any type known in the industry but capable of handling the flow of data on a substantially real time basis. Moreover persons of skill will recognize that multiple servers in a server farm arrangement may be utilized to handle the bandwidth and processing requirements of a particular arrangement of the present invention.

Trade history databases and account management databases are controlled by the software modules to retrieve data when necessary. The storage devices themselves may be any mass storage devices capable of storing large amounts of data in an organized fashion such as known data storage devices including but not limited to hard disks tape drivers optical disks and the like.

Communication between the customer side dealer side and the STP trading platform may be accomplished via electronic messaging using the Extensible Mark up Language XML or Financial Information Exchange FIX format. In order for customer side and dealer side computers to communicate with the STP trading platform an API is provided to enable users to establish connections to the STP trading platform authenticate their systems and exchange messages using for example the XML based messaging protocol. By way of non limiting example Table I that follows illustrates exemplary messages that may be used during the flow of the trading cycle.

With respect to the exchange of messages between the customer side dealer side and STP trading platform persons of skill in the art will recognize and understand the various message types being communicated across the system in light of the discussion of trade execution allocation confirmation and settlement on the STP trading platform in connection with the various screen shots and data flow diagrams. Persons of skill will also recognize that the particular structure of the messages and the preferred use of XML messaging is not necessary and alternate methods of messaging may be utilized.

Persons of skill in the art will further recognize that the exemplary system architecture shown and described herein may be modified in various manners so as to achieve the functionality set forth herein. Moreover the particular layout or look and feel of the GUI s depicted in and are meant only for illustration purposes and the scope of the present invention should not be so limited.

The above described account management electronic trading and back office modules are configured to operate and the customer and dealer electronic trading and back office management clients and respectively on the trading platform servers and databases act cooperatively to provide a solution for various aspects of the typical trading cycle. An exemplary embodiment of customer and dealer interaction with the STP trading platform is described below in connection with .

Prior to initiating a trade a customer may access the account management module of the STP trading platform so as to input information to create maintain and update sub accounts for allocation of block trades and to enter standing settlement instructions to facilitate electronic settlement of executed trades in accordance with an exemplary embodiment of the present invention. The STP trading platform is operative with the account management database to act as a centralized account management database for customers dealers custodians and agent bank accounts and sub accounts and to store standing settlement instructions for said customers custodians and agent banks.

In the exemplary embodiment the account management module is operative to create a web based environment through which users can access settlement and account data and manage standing settlement instructions. The account management module also preferably performs account validation as described further below. is an example of a database schematic of the account management database for storing company account profiles and corresponding settlement instructions . The account profiles and associated settlement instructions stored in the account management database are mapped to the account information utilized by the electronic trading module . In this way trade details can be enriched dynamically with account and settlement information from the account management database . In an exemplary embodiment customers can interact with the account management module of the STP trading platform through a web based interface as shown in to manage and update their account information. The account management interface is preferably standardized and provides field level validation to reduce the possibility of errors in the account information. For example the account management interface has a minimum standard for information that must be entered in order to create a new account or sub account. The minimum information requirement is driven by industry standards for the particular jurisdiction and financial product that the account is being created to accommodate. Where possible to provide further ease of use and prevent errors the account management interface uses drop down menus that users can select from pre defined lists.

For example according to the recently enacted the U.S.A. PATRIOT ACT the United and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act accounts in the United States must have a Tax ID number. The account management module therefore requires a Tax ID number to be entered for any account created in the United States.

Moreover to accomplish field level validation the account management module is programmed to ensure that particular fields require particular types of information. For example with reference to the TAX ID field generally requires an 8 digit numeric code. In an exemplary embodiment after the customer has completed entering the account information the account management module is configured to check the entered information against field level validation standards stored in a field level validation database to determine whether any information has been improperly entered. By way of example if only 6 digits have been entered in the TAX ID field the account management module would detect the error and prompt the customer to enter the proper information. In an alternate embodiment the account management module could trigger a message to the customer as soon as improperly non validated information was entered into the system. In such a scenario for example as soon as the information was entered and the tab or enter key was pressed to move to the next input field the account management module would notify the user of the error.

In an exemplary embodiment the account management database also stores standing settlement instructions using a standardized and field level validated data structure. With reference again to there is shown an exemplary embodiment of a customer account management interface showing standing settlement instructions for a particular clearing institution and particular financial instruments. Because dealers use this information to settle securities transactions its accuracy is important to achieving straight through processing. It should be understood that the information entered into the fields is illustrative and not meant to be indicative of actual settlement instructions. Input of standing settlement instructions using the account management module is performed using industry standardized data. For example where possible SWIFT codes are used to populate data fields. For instance if a hypothetical SWIFT code of ABCCUS33XXX is entered the other fields necessary to complete the creation of the settlement instructions are automatically populated using cross references to the SWIFT codes embedded in the account management database . Such standardization and automation reduces the possibility of human input errors which are a source of costly trade settlement failures. The account management module may also perform field level validation on fields that are not able to be auto populated using embedded cross references in the same manner as described above in connection with .

As a result of the standardization and validation performed by the account management module in the creation and input of accounts customers and dealers have access to an accurate and centralized depository of account and sub account information and associated settlement instructions. When a customer updates creates anew or modifies an account or settlement instruction the changes will be almost immediately available to all participants that the customer has enabled to view such settlement instructions thereby streamlining the process of updating account information and eliminating the need for duplicative systems and processes. Moreover because the selected participants have access to the same information errors can be detected and corrected more efficiently. As will be described further below integration of the account management module and database with the electronic trading module and back office management module provides the functionality for straight through processing of trades throughout the entire trading cycle.

In an alternate embodiment as shown in the customer or dealer is provided with customized settlement instruction templates and for inputting settlement instructions. By way of example only templates and may be provided for physical delivery of paper scripted financial instruments U.S. Federal Reserve script less securities securities eligible for settlement with DTCC international securities settled at central banks settlement of electronic cash payments over the U.S. Federal Reserve central bank payments network international cash payments and the like. As described above the templates and provide field level validation.

In the exemplary embodiment the settlement instruction templates are divided into two sections settlement instructions detail fields entered by users upper portion of settlement instructions screen and settlement template model attributes defined by the user in the settlement profile template master lower portion of settlement instructions screen . The settlement template model attributes lower portion of settlement instructions indicates the settlement instruction general criteria market country depository PSET and security cash type counterparties can utilize to search for desired settlement instructions. The account management module automatically populates this information based on user settlement profile template master settings at the bottom of every settlement instruction.

With reference to an exemplary physical securities delivery instructions template is utilized to communicate the settlement instructions for a scripted security delivered by hand not delivered electronically to a safekeeping account likely at a Bank or central depository . This template can preferably be used for all markets countries. The exemplary required fields for this template are The Physical Depository Name SWIFT BIC and Address The Beneficiary Account Holder with Custodian Safekeeping Institution Account Number Whether the Beneficiary is a Custodian If Yes then the Safekeeping Account Holder isn t the final Beneficiary and a Further Credit Account Number is needed . Additional Recommended fields for this template are Beneficiary Account Name and Further Credit Account Name if available Beneficiary Market Registration Details any special tax or governing exchange registration identifier Settlement Currency and Exchange Currency if FX transaction is necessary Beneficiary Reference special field value for the Beneficiary Physical Depository Contact Name and Phone Number Linked FX Pair off Free Payment Instructions link to Cash Payment Instructions that are specially used for this settlement instruction if necessary .

With reference to an exemplary US DTC delivery instructions template is utilized to communicate the settlement instructions for United States Depository Trust Company book entry electronic script less eligible securities. depicts an exemplary International INTERNATIONAL settlement delivery instructions template.

With reference now to there will be described an exemplary process for executing trades allocating the trades and confirming the trade details and allocations on the STP trading platform .

Persons of skill will recognize that other fields may be utilized as appropriate for the trade type e.g. swaps or particular security being traded. In addition other fields defined by the FIX protocol may be utilized as a matter of design choice.

It will also be evident from the above table that a customer may pre allocate trades on the system or through its internal OMS and include such allocations in the new order message to the databases. If the customer chooses to create allocations after a block trade is entered then an allocation message is created. Table IV shows an exemplary message for transmitting post trade allocations using the FIX protocol 

The exemplary flow of depicts a trade initiated via the composite price matrices. In a first step the STP trading platform collects and aggregates live market pricing data and prices received from dealers. In step upon launch of the customer side electronic trading component composite screens are generated and populated using the dealer trade price information transmitted to the STP trading platform by dealer systems. In step the indicative market price feeds are accessible via communications network on customer computers and dealer computers . In step the electronic trading component operative on customer computer generates graphical interfaces and provides functionality for initiating and executing trades. In step customer traders manually enter trade orders or electronically upload orders from OMS that would include allocation instruction and select dealers to enable a competitive auction type trade inquiry. Trade inquiries are then transmitted through the STP trading platform servers to the selected dealer s computers in step . In most instances automated dealer trade systems in step respond to the inquiries and transmit firm market prices through the STP trading platform servers . Using a trade execution screen in step the firm dealer prices populate the customer s trading screens. In step customer traders can execute trades by hitting or lifting a bid or offer as applicable. After a trade is accepted by the dealer the customer s back office can enter block trade allocations if the trade was not already pre allocated and transmit the same to the dealer computers in step . In step the dealer acknowledges the customer s block trade allocation.

Upon receipt of the customer s allocations if any the dealer side software client confirms the details of the block trade and allocations and retrieves standing settlement instructions from the account management database and may but not necessarily generate an electronic confirmation of the trade. Throughout the process outlined in records of the customer s trade inquiry the dealer s price response details concerning whether prices were rejected or accepted the final trade details the customer s account allocations if any and electronic confirmations are stored in the trade history database .

During the trading process the STP trading platform permits customers to submit trade inquiries to multiple dealers simultaneously. In this case for example the Order Type field of the New Trade Order message would be set to auction. As discussed above in the exemplary embodiment customers can submit requests to purchase from financial instrument inventories such as commercial paper offering CPO and corporate bond inventories. All dealers receiving an inquiry and willing to trade the specific instrument for the transmitted quantity will message the customers with a firm quotation to buy or sell by filling out a trade ticket displayed on the dealer side computers . The customer reviews the quote and determines to accept or reject the quote or allow the quote to lapse. A transaction is completed only if both the customer and dealer accept the quote.

With further reference to after a transaction is effected over the STP trading platform or imported into the STP trading platform customers acting in some cases for multiple client accounts may allocate the transaction among those client accounts by transmitting the relevant allocation information to the dealer via the STP trading platform . Step discussed above . Also the pre trade allocations may be entered in the original trade inquiry. The dealer then can acknowledge the receipt and processing of the allocation information through the STP trading platform . Step discussed above . The STP trading platform provides functionality to dynamically enrich trade details with settlement instructions and generate electronic confirmations in steps as discussed further below.

In the exemplary enrichment is accomplished through a mapping of information contained in the block or allocated trade as the case may be and account information stored in the account management database . For example an exemplary mapping may comprise the following associations 

Using these associations the STP trading platform can determine the appropriate settlement instruction set for the block or allocated trade. By way of further example a particular account may have one or more settlement instruction groups dependent on various parameters of the trade as set forth above. Based on the trade details the STP trading system will pull the appropriate settlement instruction groups associated with the appropriate account profile. The appropriate settlement instruction group is then selected based on further details in the trade.

With reference now to there are shown screen shots of an exemplary user interface of the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform . For the sole purpose of illustration the screen shots and the description herein concern the trading of On The Run OTR Treasuries. However persons of skill in the art will understand that any type of financial instrument can be traded using the STP trading platform described herein.

On the interface shown in a composite listing of various OTR treasuries along with important market details is presented to the customer. Specifically the customer is presented with various treasury products for example and their respective coupon rates bid ask prices the date of maturity the number of dealers indicating that they are at or better than the bid ask price and the bid ask yield rates . Persons of skill will recognize that the above listed information is only illustrative of the type of information that may be presented to customers to facilitate the execution of trades and that the type of information will vary according to the type of financial instrument being presented.

Using an input device such as a mouse the customer can select a particular OTR treasury coupon to trade. To most efficiently permit the customer to create a trade inquiry the customer side electronic trading component e.g. the software client operative on the customer s computer is configured so as to permit the user to click directly on a selected instrument and launch a trade inquiry creation interface as shown in . Thus if the customer clicks the bid side of the price for a chosen OTR treasury note in the composite price interface then the customer side electronic trading component launches a second interface that permits the customer to customize the terms of a sale of the chosen financial instrument in this example an OTR treasury note having maturity date of Sep. 30 2004. Similarly the customer can click the offer side of the price to initiate the purchase of the chosen financial instrument.

With reference now to the trade inquiry creation interface provides fields that permit the customer to customize the transaction by modifying the default quantity the settlement date and the type of settlement . The trade inquiry creation interface also permits the customer to select which dealers they desire to make inquiries of for prices for the chosen financial product. In the exemplary embodiment shown in the customer can click buttons to select one or more dealers. Although trade inquiry creation interface lists only three possible dealer selections a person of skill will recognize that any number of dealers may be presented to the customer for selection and that the customer may select any number of those dealers listed according to the trading rules then in effect on the system with respect to the particular instrument. Functionality may also be provided to permit the customer to cancel the transaction prior to submitting the inquiries or to flip the transaction or to create a switch or swap transaction as is known in the industry. The term flip refers to the ability of the customer to quickly turn a sale inquiry into a purchase inquiry. The exemplary trade inquiry creation interface through the electronic trading module provides such functionality via a flip buy sell button .

Assuming that the customer does not wish to flip the transaction or create a switch swap transaction and the customer has completed customizing the transaction to his her requirements the customer can submit the inquiry to the selected dealers. Upon submission of the inquiry the customer is provided with a trade execution interface. The trade execution interface in the exemplary embodiment shown in is a matrix showing the trade details e.g. the quantity yield and price for each of the selected dealers. The price and yield fields are dynamic in that the dealers may refresh their prices in response to movements in the market after the on the wire time terminates. As such the trading interface of is dynamic and shows the customer fluctuations in the market prices.

In the exemplary embodiment presently being described the dealer interacts with a trade execution interface similar to trade execution interface through the dealer side component of the electronic trading module configured to permit the dealer to update prices for the customer selected instrument substantially in real time. This process can be performed manually by a trader using such interfaces or dynamically through integration with the dealer s internal trade management system as shown in .

Although not visible in an advantageous feature of the exemplary trading interface of is that it highlights the best available market price to the customer. To execute a trade the customer simply clicks or double clicks as a matter of design choice with his her mouse or other input device e.g. a stylus pointer touch pad touch sensitive screen etc. on a button next to the best price in this example marked hit . In a buy scenario the button would be labeled lift . This customer action submits the bid in the case of a sale transaction or an offer in the case of a buy transaction to the dealer. If the bid or offer is submitted during the fix or on the wire time the dealer must accept the bid or offer. In the alternative if the bid or offer was submitted after the fix time has expired then the dealer has the choice whether or not to accept the bid or offer or update the price and set a new on the wire time. The refresh process of updated prices and setting new on the wire time is typically performed automatically. In such instances the dealer receives the customer s hit or lift through the electronic trading module and dealer side electronic trading client and transmits an indication such as a button click that the trade is accepted.

As discussed in the background section of the present application a common shortcoming in known electronic trading systems is the inability for dealers to quickly respond to cancelled trade inquiries or generate liquidity by initiating an actionable trade inquiry the first instance. In the past a trader at a dealer would telephone a particular customer to determine whether the customer was interested at trading a particular financial instrument at a particular level. More recently electronic messaging systems such as the BLOOMBERG PROFESSIONAL service permit traders to communicate electronically. Electronic mail systems such as Microsoft Outlook can also be used to transmit such messages. However such systems utilize traditional electronic messaging standards and proprietary input devices. Moreover such systems are not integrated into trade execution engines and therefore traders must use alternate means to execute a trade. These messages also are non executable and require the receiving customer s to telephone the dealer sending the message to execute a trade.

The electronic trading module seeks to overcome this shortcoming by providing functionality for dealer initiated trade inquiries also commonly referred to as an axe . Although dealers may initiate a trade inquiry or axe at anytime the opportunity for an axe often arises in one of two situations. In one situation the customer may have terminated a customer initiated trade inquiry and the dealer may wish to convey a better price level for the selected instrument. At this point a dealer can transmit an electronic axe to the customer with an improved bid offer from the customer s perspective. As will be described in greater detail below the customer can hit the bid or lift the offer in the electronic axe and execute a trade at the axe price. In other instances a dealer may require liquidity in a certain instrument and can communicate an electronic axe to one or more customers rather that waiting for the termination of customer initiated trade inquiries. The electronic axe of the present invention thus adds an additional layer of liquidity to the market not traditionally present. Ordinarily if a dealer needed to trade a particular financial instrument for example to create a flat position in the instrument the dealer would have had only two options 1 dealer could trade the instrument on the Interdealer Broker Market or 2 make a hedging trade. Thus the ability to use a dealer s customer base to make necessary or desired trades adds a valuable third layer of liquidity.

An exemplary embodiment of an electronic axe system operative in connection with the above described STP trading platform will now be described in connection with which depict exemplary screens shots of an electronic trading system adapted to provide the functionality to create manage and trade electronic axes. To achieve the axe functionality the dealer side electronic trading component is further configured to permit dealers to create and manage axes communicate axes to one or more customers and execute axe trades.

In a first scenario after a customer initiated trade inquiry is transmitted to one or more dealers and cancelled by the customer as described above the dealer is notified of the cancelled trade. One manner of notification is for the dealer to be notified via a change in the trade state field of the trade blotter screen as shown in . Alternatively a post trade notification window may also be launched on the dealer s display as shown in . In either case the dealer is provided with the ability to commence an axe trade ticket. In both the functionality to initiate an electronic axe is provided via a button . Of course persons of skill will recognize that the process of initiating the axe functionality can be accomplished in any number of ways including but not limited to clicking a button clicking a hyperlink or checking a check box.

Initiating the axe functionality launches an electronic axe trade ticket as shown in . The electronic axe trade ticket provides an interface through which the dealer can set the terms of the electronic axe trade inquiry. As depicted in it is preferred that the electronic axe ticket permits at least the following information to be entered 1 the instrument being inquired about 2 the nominal quantity e.g. 10 000

OTR Treasury Notes to be traded 3 the settlement date 4 the unit price and 5 the on the wire time . In an exemplary embodiment in which the electronic axe is initiated in response to a cancelled customer initiated trade inquiry as in the present example shown in the fields on the electronic axe trade ticket for the instrument type quantity and settlement are dynamically imported to reflect the customer s initial trade inquiry which was cancelled. Thus in the exemplary embodiment the only variables that can be altered by a dealer are the quoted price and on the wire time .

After creation of the electronic dealer axe the dealer side electronic trading component provides the dealer with several options for communicating the axe to one or more customers. In a first scenario the dealer can simply transmit the electronic axe and the customer will be presented with an electronic axe message as further described below. In a second scenario the dealer can load the electronic axe into an electronic axe blotter for transmission at a later time to one or more selected customers or preset groups of customers. In a third scenario the dealer can select multiple customers or groups of customers for immediate transmission of the electronic axe. This feature is also described in further detail below.

Upon completion of the electronic axe ticket by the dealer the electronic axe ticket is transmitted through the STP trading platform to the one or more selected customers. The customer side electronic trading client provides several ways in which the customer is notified of receipt of an electronic dealer axe. In a first exemplary embodiment a message area on the client side trading interface such as on the composite price screens is used to list incoming electronic axes. In this case the electronic dealer axe is displayed as a line item containing the information pertinent to the trade inquiry. The customer upon seeing the electronic axe message can click the electronic axe message to launch an electronic customer axe trade ticket as shown in . The electronic customer axe trade ticket permits the customer to customize the terms of the axe within the parameters set by the dealer. For instance field displays the axe quantity that is set by the dealer. The customer can execute a trade up to the axe quantity amount displayed in field by adjusting the quantity in field . The axe time field shows the remaining on the wire time.

In a second embodiment shown in either in addition to or in lieu of the line item axe message described above and shown in a pop up axe window may be displayed to notify the customer of an incoming electronic axe. The pop up window as shown in preferably includes summary information about the electronic axe and at least three function buttons. A first button will dismiss the axe. A second button will launch the axe monitor interface which is described in connection with below. A third button will launch the customer electronic axe trade ticket. Preferably the pop up axe window also includes a display of the running on the wire time remaining to execute the trade at the firm electronic axe price.

As depicted in the customer axe trade ticket preferably includes all of the information pertinent to the axe inquiry including but not limited to the on the wire time remaining the axe quantity the axe price the settlement date the face amount whether the axe is to buy or sell and the instrument to be traded . Because the electronic axe represents a firm dealer offer in the exemplary embodiment the customer cannot modify the settlement price or instrument type shown in the axe ticket and the electronic axe can only be sent back to the initiating dealer although these features may be disabled and a broadcast option in which the axe is transformed into a customer initiated auction inquiry may be utilized. The customer may have the option to take only part of the face amount offered in the electronic axe.

As with other trades if the customer accepts the trade in the electronic axe ticket while on the wire time remains the electronic axe trade will be accepted as indicated in the customer negotiation screen of in the state field . If the on the wire time has expired the trade is subject to dealer approval as previously described.

Moreover it is preferred that the electronic axe ticket that is displayed to the customer be highlighted with a bright color and be conspicuously marked as a dealer axe. Also it is preferred that the axe ticket include a field for previous quote made by the dealer to the customer in response to the customer initiated trade inquiry. By issuing the electronic axe ticket to the customer in this manner the customer will be able to more easily discern the value inherent in the dealer axe.

In an alternate embodiment the dealer axe functionality may be utilized even if a customer initiated inquiry did not trigger a cancelled trade. In this scenario the dealer axe may be directed to a single customer or multiple customers. For example the dealer may select to send the electronic axe to all of the dealer s customers or one or more groups of customers. An advantage of the electronic axe functionality provided by the present invention is that it provides dealers with a mechanism for conveying binding and timely positions to its customers while giving dealers another outlet for initiating trades to create liquidity.

With reference to the dealer is presented with an axe list screen . The primary function of the axe list screen is to permit the dealer to monitor the electronic axes they have created through a particular day. The axe list screen preferably includes but is not limited to the following information 1 a list of the day s axes 2 the status of the axes 3 whether the axe was a buy or sell offer 4 the unit quantity of the axe 5 the security or instrument that was the subject of axe 6 the axe price and 7 the current composite price . In the exemplary embodiment the status of the axe is represented by color although a separate status field may be used. They are generally four 4 states for an electronic axe 1 active 2 completed 3 ended and 4 expired.

With reference now to an exemplary method of creating an axe will be described. In the exemplary embodiment a button is included on the axe list screen for initiating the creation of an electronic axe. In the exemplary screen of a Add Swap button is provided to initiate the create axe functionality. In a first step the dealer would select a specific financial instrument that will be the subject of the electronic axe. Upon selection information concerning the selected instrument populates a line item on the axe list screen. In steps and the dealer then inputs the quantity to be traded and sets time for the axe to be active. The dealer then can modify the axe price which in a preferred embodiment is preloaded based on the then current composite price in the STP trading platform upon selection of the instrument type. The dealer can modify the axe price for example by inputting a price or by using or toggle buttons in a step . As an added layer of security the dealer may be required to take some additional action to confirm the axe price such as depressing or clicking a confirmation button. In step the dealer can modify the settlement type and date as desired. In step the dealer can specify the target customer or customer group. Lastly in step the dealer activates and transmits the axe to selected customers by indicating acceptance of the newly created electronic axe. The indication may be a click of an activate button or some other like action.

As described above upon activation by the dealer the information input into the axe list screen is transmitted to the STP trading platform and the electronic trading module uses the dealer information to generate an electronic axe message. The axe message is then communicated to the selected customers and displayed in several different manners as described above. Transmission of the electronic axe data and electronic axe message is performed according to known electronic communication protocols such as TCP IP. Preferably the electronic axe data and electronic axe messages are formatted in XML so as to facilitate transmission between the dealer and the STP trading platform and the systems customer systems . The electronic axe message that is transmitted to the customer system preferably includes a dealer name an indication of whether the dealer is a buyer or a seller the instrument type the amount and the on the wire time limit. The purpose of formatting the electronic axe message in this manner is to convey all of the material terms of the electronic axe and its binding nature to the customer.

With reference now to the dealer may also create and monitor electronic swap axes. By way of background a swap is a derivative transaction in which two trading entities agree to pay the other a certain amount of money at agreed to intervals where the amount of money to be paid is based on an underlying financial instrument. For example a dealer may be willing to pay a customer the yield on a treasury bond on a monthly basis in return for the customer s payment of a fixed interest rate. To create and monitor electronic swap axes the dealer is provided with an electronic swap axe list screen which is depicted in . The swap axe list screen may comprise the same information as the axe list screen shown in with the addition of a yield spread field showing the difference in yield between the instruments to be swapped.

With reference to an exemplary method of creating a swap axe will be shown and described. By clicking the add swap button in step a create swap axe screen is provided as depicted in the exemplary screen of and the create swap axe functionality is initiated. The create swap axe interface preferably includes input fields for information related to both a buy and sell side of a swap transaction including the instrument type amount price yield settlement date and the axe spread . In step by clicking the buy button the dealer can choose an instrument type in this example 3 year T Bills. Upon selection of the instrument in step the maturity date dealer bid price and yield is populated from the dealer s internal systems via an API as described herein in step . Similarly in step the dealer selects a sell side instrument by clicking the sell button. The maturity dealer offer price and yield is populated in the same manner. The system then calculates the reference yield from the dealer offer and bid prices. The dealer may also modify the swap axe yield spread manually in step

In step the dealer can upload the swap axe into its swap axe list by clicking the add button. In the swap axe list screen the swap axe is preferably shown as two list items so that the dealer can view both the buy side and sell side of the swap axe. If the dealer modified the yield spread during creation of the swap axe then the trading module automatically calculates the buy and sell prices using the dealer modified axe yield spread. On the swap axe list screen in step the dealer then enters the on the wire time identifies target customers and if desired modify the settlement date. In step the dealer confirms the swap axe by clicking a confirmation button in this example the C button. In step the swap axe is transmitted to the selected customers in the same manner as described above in connection with all electronic data communicated through the STP trading platform. The swap axe as described above is displayed to the selected customer in various manners including but not limited to a pop up notification window a line item or an axe execution screen.

In certain situations a customer may be interested in trading certain instruments or may desire to be specially notified if an electronic axe is received from a dealer or concerning a particular instrument. In such instances according to an exemplary embodiment the customer through operation of the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform and the customer side electronic trading client is provided with functionality to set alerts. Using the customer side electronic trading client the customer can link certain actions to be triggered by selected events. By way of example a customer can choose to have a pop up message launched if a certain price on a certain security from the composite price data is met or if an electronic axe on that security is received. Thus whereas the customer may be receiving electronic axes as list items by default an electronic axe on a selected security will trigger an alert in the form of a pop up message. The message may be of the type described in connection with above.

Throughout a given trading day a customer may receive several electronic axes or swap axes. Similarly a dealer may create and transmit several electronic axes during the trading day. To aid customers and dealers in managing the receipt or transmission of electronic axes the STP trading platform is further configured to record received and transmitted axes and provide an electronic axe management interface or electronic axe monitor.

An exemplary electronic axe monitor interface is shown in . The electronic axe monitor preferably lists all of the electronic axes that a customer receives or a dealer transmits for a particular trading day. The customer electronic axe monitor displays each electronic axe along with pertinent information which may include but is not limited to the time received the dealer whether the axe was a buy or sell offer the instrument type the quantity settlement date price and status e.g. active expired subject etc. . The customer electronic axe monitor also preferably permits the customer to filter or sort the axes by product dealer and status. Because the electronic axes were executable trade offers at then current market prices the customer is provided a view of market movements beyond the level of information provide by composite price screens.

Similarly the dealer electronic axe monitor not shown presents a view of a dealer s axes from the dealer perspective. Thus in lieu of listing which dealer an axe was received from the axe monitor will display the customer or group of customers to which the axe was transmitted.

The STP trading platform is also preferably configured to process trades executed on systems other than the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform such as trades executed via telephone or by an alternate electronic trading system. In these cases trade details from alternate systems can be electronically imported into the STP trading platform via electronic messaging using an API. Once the trade data is imported into the trade history database of the STP trading platform STP functionality as described herein can be provided for trades executed on alternate systems or via the telephone. In the exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform are be communicatively linked to a dealer s internal systems or trade management systems to import trade details. The trade details are delivered to the customer via STP trading platform in the DONE state. If the trade details are accepted or checked out by the customer the state will change to ACC and thereafter trade details are then treated similarly as trades completed via the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform . Such trades may then be allocated and electronically confirmed via the STP trading platform as described further below.

With reference now to the flow of a phone trade will now be shown and described. In a first step the dealer and customer execute a phone trade in a known manner. The dealer then inputs the trade details into its internal trade management system in step . In step the phone trade details are electronically imported into the STP trading platform using the exemplary message format shown above. Phone trades are differentiated from other trades by virtue of an identifier for example TELTRD. At this point the phone trade details are assigned a DONE state see Table V below while customer acceptance is outstanding. In step the phone trade details are messaged to the customer side electronic trading module for review by the customer. The customer may accept the phone trade as in step or reject the phone trade as in step . If the phone trade is accepted or checked out it is assigned the ACC state. If the phone trade is rejected it is assigned the REJ state. In the case of a rejected trade the dealer is given an opportunity to correct the phone trade details in step . The process flow returns to step and the corrected phone trade is transmitted again to the customer. The corrected phone trade is again assigned the DONE state.

Additionally a phone trade pop up message as shown in may be used to confirm a phone trade. The pop up message will include the phone trade details that can be reviewed by the customer and may include graphical buttons or the like to permit the customer to confirm or reject the phone trade. Simply by selecting confirm or reject the customer can accept or reject a phone trade.

Phone trades that are accepted by the customer may be allocated confirmed and enriched with settlement instructions in the same manner as other trades handled by the STP trading platform .

At each stage of a trade effected on the STP trading platform or via alternate methods e.g. phone trades the trade is assigned a state that can be monitored by customers and dealers. An exemplary set of state codes is shown in Table V below.

An exemplary trade acceptance and allocation process where an electronic trade confirmation is not utilized will now be described in connection with the exemplary states listed above in Table V and the flow of . In instances where the bid or offer is accepted and thus a trade executed the state of the trade is updated to show that the executed trade has been accepted using the ACC state. Non selected dealer quotes that have terminated receive the REJ state. If a customer makes an inquiry and does not execute any trades the dealer quotes receive the END state not shown in .

At this point because the details of all trades and trade inquiries are stored in the trade history database the customer can view a trade detail screen which provides the particulars of the accepted transaction and the rejected dealer quotes or ended inquiries as shown in . The customer can also view a transaction history interface as shown in .

Further the customer can choose to view a breakdown screen as shown in to allocate the block transaction to one or more sub accounts. Of course this is only necessary if the trade was not pre allocated in the order generation stage. To perform this functionality the electronic trading module accesses information stored in the account management database . For example the customer by clicking the lookup button in an account search interface for example can access a listing of its sub accounts that are stored in the account management database . Account information may also be keyed in or auto populated from the customer s OMS or other back office system. Account profiles that are stored in the account management database may also store breakdown profiles such that when an account profile is selected the breakdown percentages are also auto populated. Upon accessing the sub accounts the customer is presented with an interface through which the customer can select one or more sub accounts in which the customer desires to allocate the block trade as shown in . In the exemplary embodiment of the customer simply clicks on the Account ID or Account Description of the sub account to make the selection.

To further facilitate post trade allocation breakdown of a block trade a drop down menu of available clearing firms e.g. DTCC Euroclear Swift Crest etc. will be auto populated based upon the trade details including account information security and quantity.

With reference to upon selection the customer is presented with a trade breakdown interface to permit the desired allocation. As shown in a spreadsheet type format may be used to effect the allocation. In this case the customer keys in a percentage column or quantity column for each of the selected sub accounts as shown in . Upon completion of the allocations an allocation message can be transmitted to the dealer to permit electronic confirmation of the trade and the respective allocation. The trade state is changed from ACC to ALLOC to indicate that the customer has allocated the block trade.

The allocation message transmission is preferably accomplished through the generation of an electronic message that is communicated to the dealer as described above. Persons of skill will recognize that the electronic allocation message and other electronic messages that are discussed herein as being transmitted between the customer and dealer through the STP trading platform may be formatted in any known communication format but are preferably formatted using a standardized message format such as XML or FIX as detailed above. XML stands for Extensible Markup Language that enables the definition transmission validation and interpretation of data between applications. Similarly FIX stands for Financial Information Exchange protocol which is a standardized message format typically used to describe real time security transactions. In either instance or using any other standardized format known or heretofore developed the STP trading platform can transmit the trade details directly to dealers in a standardized format. By interfacing with an application program interface API exposed to all participants or at a minimum exposed only to the dealers participants can interface with the STP trading platform to receive transaction details along with settlement instructions as described further below in a standardized format that can be manipulated by the recipient participant to work with the participants internal trade management system.

For example if a dealer uses an internal trade management system that employs a proprietary database format for storing trade details the dealer may still achieve straight through processing of trades by interfacing with the exposed API of the STP trading platform. The dealer would then receive trade details in a standardized format that could be automatically translated to the dealer s proprietary format for use with the dealer s internal systems.

Moreover when the customer transmits the allocation to the dealer the STP trading platform preferably dynamically enriches the transaction details with the customer s standing settlement instructions for the particular sub accounts allocated by the customer as previously described. These settlement instructions preferably include a dealer identification code commonly referred to as a BIA code that is specific to the dealer for the particular sub account identified by the allocation. Further upon allocation a separate allocation ticket is generated for each account. The allocation tickets include an identifier of the base block trade and are thus mapped to such block trade data file.

In order to facilitate STP integration with customer and dealer internal systems the back office management module of the STP trading platform may generate a booking report message that can be used to confirm each of the allocations in a particular trade. Table VI shows an exemplary booking report message using the FIX protocol 

Further the STP trading platform may provide an automatic download feature in which all accepted trades performed by any trader at either a customer or dealer are consolidated into a single flat file. This consolidated file may be imported into the customer s or dealer s in house systems to automatically update back office systems.

By way of non limiting example in operation the first trade of each day creates a new file for the trading day. Subsequent trades will be posted to the same file throughout the day. An exemplary naming convention is as follows TWTRDCCYYMMDDF.TXT where TWTRD denotes that this is the company s trades CCYYMMDD is the century year month and day and F denotes the format. As an example the file name for trades executed on Jan. 4 2004 in comma delimited format is TWTRD20040104C.TXT. This file may be uploaded to in house systems at any time.

The actual file format may be either 1 text file format that may be interfaced to other systems or 2 delimited format for spreadsheets. An example of the fields and information of such a file is shown below in Table VII 

By way of summary and as further described below the enriched trade details may also populate an electronic confirmation form standardized as required by government regulation such as SEC Rule 10b 10. Dealers may also be provided functionality to manually add additional disclosures to the electronic confirms as desired. Persons of skill will recognize that additional dealer disclosures can be automatically inserted into the standardized confirm form. With reference again to the electronic confirms are then made available to customers for review and acceptance in step and in step the customer can electronically confirm or reject the trade through the STP trading platform . In step if the electronic confirmation is confirmed by the customer and dealer then the trade is listed as AFFM in the master blotter stored in the trade history database of the STP trading platform . This process will be described in greater detail below.

Thus in an exemplary embodiment depicted in when the customer selects the send button for example to transmit the allocation to the dealer the electronic trading module retrieves the standing settlement instructions for the allocated sub accounts from the account management database and adds the settlement instructions to the electronic allocation message carrying the trade details which preferably include the dealer BIA code that refers to the dealer s internal records of the allocated sub accounts. Upon receipt of the electronic message the dealer can analyze the trade details allocations and settlement instructions and electronically confirm the transaction. Upon confirmation by the dealer the trade is assigned the CONF state.

In cases were no electronic trade confirmation is to be utilized the settlement instructions received with the trade details are used by the dealer to settle the trade through the appropriate clearing agency. By eliminating the need for the customer s back office personnel to have to provide the dealer s back office with allocations and settlement instructions via fax or telephone as is presently done the chance for human error is significantly reduced. Moreover the need for the customer s back office personnel to have to key the allocations and settlement instructions into a fax transmission is eliminated as is the need for the dealer s back office personnel to re key the allocations and settlement instructions in their internal systems. Thus redundant systems can be eliminated and the trading process simplified.

If the dealer cannot confirm any of the allocations made by the customer then the dealer rejects the allocations and the trade is assigned the ERR state. Dealers may reject allocated trades under several circumstances including but not limited to i the allocated trade details not matching the details of the block trade and ii the dealer not having the proper account data. Table VIII lists various conditions that can lead to a trade rejection.

In some instances the dealer may be able to confirm some of the allocations but not all of the allocations. In this case the block trade is assigned the CONFP state and a message is transmitted to the customer. Upon receipt of a message including a CONFP state the customer can either i cancel and reissue new allocations or ii cancel or correct the block trade. If new allocations are made then an allocation message with the state ALLOC is transmitted to the dealer and the process begins again until the trade is either confirmed or cancelled altogether.

Furthermore according to the exemplary data flow of the STP trading platform is preferably but not necessarily configured to compare trade details and related information received from dealers and customers and permit electronic confirmation according to applicable government laws rules and regulations. By example SEC Rule 10b 10 requires that certain disclosures be included in a confirmation. In order to satisfy SEC Rule 10b 10 the STP trading platform may be programmed to generate an electronic trade confirmation ETC template containing the required Rule 10b 10 disclosures. To satisfy SEC Rule 10b 10 in the exemplary embodiment the ETC template preferably includes the fields listed in Table IX. Table IX also sets forth an exemplary model for retrieving information from the account management and trade history databases to facilitate creation of the ETC.

The exemplary confirmation system of the present invention preferably follows the following data flow as shown in . In step a customer makes a trade inquiry. One or more dealers transmit trade quotes in step . The customer then in step selects one of the quotes to execute a trade. For trades effected on the STP trading platform the trade details for block trades would be stored electronically in an associated trade history database . As described above the trade history database stores a record for each trade executed on the STP trading platform using a unique identifier for each such trade. For non system trades such as trades effected over alternate electronic systems and telephone trades the trade details for block trades would be electronically imported by a dealer through the dealer s trade blotter interface and then communicated to the appropriate customer as described above. If the terms of the non system block trade are accepted by the customer the block trade is given the ACC state and a record of the accepted trade is stored in the trade history database . The block trade detail can then also be used to populate the trade blotter and other back office management interfaces of the customer.

After receiving the trade details of an accepted block trade a customer would review the details and may include any trade allocation instructions e.g. instructions to allocate the trade among sub accounts as described above in step . The STP trading platform assigns the ALLOC state and transmits each allocation ticket created by the STP trading platform as a result of the customer s allocations to the dealer. A record of the allocations is also stored by the trade history database . At this point each allocation ticket may be enriched with settlement instructions electronically accessed from the account management database of the STP trading platform .

Next in step the dealer reviews the allocation tickets and processes the trade details for each sub account set forth in the allocation. The dealer may then acknowledge that it has processed and accepted each allocation ticket in step . In the event that an allocation is not processed by the dealer e.g. a sub account has not been mapped to the dealer s internal system as in step the dealer can only confirm certain of the allocations and the trade will be assigned the CONFP partial confirmation state and an error message will be transmitted over the STP trading platform to the customer with specific instructions explaining why the specific allocation ticket could not be processed. If the dealer rejects all of the allocations as in step the trade will be returned to the customer and assigned the ERR state.

After all of the allocation tickets are processed and confirmed by the dealer the STP trading platform may generate an ETC in step . At this point the allocated trade is assigned the CONF state. Each ETC will preferably include all the information required to be disclosed under relevant government laws rules or regulations if applicable such as by way of example SEC Rule 10b 10. In addition the ETCs would provide dealers the ability to include any additional disclosures that they may wish to provide which are specific to the dealer. The ETC may also indicate that the customer should contact the dealer with whom it effected a transaction with any questions. Any such communication following delivery of the ETC would preferably occur directly between the dealer and the customer although the dealer and the customer may elect to use electronic messaging facilities provided by the STP trading platform . Persons of skill in the relevant art will recognize that although it is preferred that the ETC conform to applicable government laws rules or regulations the ETC of the present invention may be utilized in jurisdictions where not such applicable government laws rules or regulations exist. In such cases the ETC may still be used to electronically confirm trades in a binding fashion through use of master trading agreements and the like.

In operation the ETC is populated by the STP trading platform using the enriched trade details and allocations stored in the trade history database and the settlement instructions retrieved from the account management database to preferably provide a standardized electronic confirmation as required by government regulation. e.g. SEC Rule 10b 10 . Persons of skill will recognize that additional dealer disclosures can be automatically inserted or manually input into the standardized ETC form. Once the ETC is generated on the dealer side through transmission of the ETC through the STP trading platform the customer receives and can review and electronically confirm the trade details through the STP trading platform by indicating an acceptance of the ETC for example by clicking a affirm button on an exemplary ETC as shown in . depict an exemplary ETC that includes both trade detail and settlement information as well as the dealer s standard terms and conditions. Upon confirmation by a customer in step the STP trading platform would display the transaction state as AFFM .

Each of the customer and dealer would have the ability to view download and or print their ETCs through the STP trading platform and may establish default procedures pursuant to which such ETCs are downloaded and or printed automatically. ETCs would also preferably be stored electronically by the STP trading platform in the trade history database although this feature is not required.

The STP trading platform may also enable the customer or a custodian or designated third party on behalf of the customer to accept the trade details and settlement instructions in a number of different ways. First the customer may use the back office management tools provided by the STP trading platform to receive the trade details and the related settlement instructions from the dealer and manually compare the information it receives against its internal records. If the customer agrees that the information it received from the dealer matches with the information in its database the customer will transmit an indication that the customer affirms the trade details and the settlement instructions via the STP trading platform to the dealer.

Alternatively the STP trading platform may provide functionality to enable customers to electronically affirm trade details and settlement instructions in order to electronically match trade data submitted by dealers and customers. In such instances the electronic confirmation would be based on the matched trade data and other information provided. In one exemplary embodiment the STP trading platform records the trade details on behalf of the customer as trades are effected via the electronic trading module of the STP trading platform as described above. In a second exemplary embodiment trade information is made available to the STP trading platform through an API that interacts with the customer s internal trade processing systems and or order management systems as also described above.

The trade details and settlement instructions provided by the customer are then electronically matched by the STP trading platform to trade details and settlement instructions provided by the dealer on the STP trading platform . If the trade details and settlement instructions received from the dealer match the information provided or made available to the STP trading platform by the customer the STP trading platform will electronically and automatically affirm the trade on behalf of the customer.

The STP trading platform may also transmit the affirmed trade confirmation in accordance with the applicable self regulatory organization rules directly to a depository such as the Depository Trust Clearing Corporation DTCC or a settlement agent for settlement of the trade.

According to an exemplary embodiment as shown in both customers and dealers are provided access through a back office management module to a master trade blotter interface as well as various summary interfaces. The interfaces display various details for executed trades including the status of the trade. The details listed in the master blotter interface are populated from the trade history database .

In the exemplary embodiment the functionality of the master blotter shown in is controlled through integration of the customer side and dealer side back office management components and the back office management module . As an example the master blotter preferably can be sorted to view trades on a customer or ticker basis. Further the master blotter can be sorted on a dealer state product and date basis. Persons of skill will recognize that additional viewing and sorting functionality can be programmed into the back office management components of the back office management module as a matter of design choice.

The back office management module also provides a summary interface on which dealers and counterparts can view summary information related to their trades. Like the functionality of the master blotter the functionality of the trade summary interface shown in is controlled through integration of the back office management client with the back office management module . On the customer side the summary interface preferably displays trade information on a dealer by dealer basis. The summary information preferably includes the number of trades the number of trades cancelled or corrected the number of block trades allocated or unallocated the number of tickets generated the number of trades confirmed or unconfirmed and the number of trades for which there are errors. This summary interface allows back office personnel to quickly and efficiently determine whether any executed trades have outstanding issues that require attention. Similarly the dealer has access to summary trade information on a customer by customer basis.

With reference to in the exemplary embodiment on a periodic basis a settlement instruction validation system compares the data in the account profiles stored on the account management system to known data sources. By making such a comparison the settlement instruction validation system can determine whether there are any errors present in the stored settlement instructions.

By way of non limiting example on one level the settlement instruction validation system compares settlement instructions to databases such as the SWIFT BIC the Euroclear code and other like directories comprising codes for various entities and securities involved in the settlement process. Furthermore the settlement instruction validation system may perform character based validation. In this example the settlement instruction validation system compares known standards for certain fields with the actual stored fields. For example it is known that Bank Routing Number or ABA number must have 8 digits. The settlement instruction validation system would detect an ABA number field with less than 8 digits. Errors can be reported in a summary validation report that may be issued daily weekly monthly or on some other time basis as a matter of design choice. The reports would identify errors in stored settlement instructions and permit correction to avoid settlement failures.

In the exemplary embodiment as illustrated in the STP trading platform periodically or dynamically as applicable is programmed to generate performance reports for customers and dealers to enable enriched tracking of trade executed and STP performance. In particular using recorded trade details including but not limited to the number of trades volume and allocation details reports may be generated to give customers or dealers the ability view an overview of their trading activity. As is evident from the illustrative reports of the STP trading platform also preferably records data related to the percentage of trades allocated the time to allocate and acknowledge allocation tickets as measured against benchmarks the number of trades confirmed unconfirmed or resulting in error and the time to confirm as measured against benchmarks.

Moreover as shown in a performance report may be generated that provides the customer or dealer a view of how they rank as compared to other customers or dealers on a financial product basis.

These reports may be provided on a periodic basis e.g. daily weekly or monthly and in varying degrees of detail. Moreover in a preferred embodiment customers and dealers would have access to web based accounts so as to access performance reports as desired. In such an embodiment the performance reports are preferably dynamically updated in substantial real time such that recent trades allocations and confirmations are available to customers and dealers.

Thus while there have been shown and described fundamental novel features of the invention as applied to the exemplary embodiments thereof it will be understood that omissions and substitutions and changes in the form and details of the disclosed invention may be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. It is the intention therefore to be limited only as indicated by the scope of the claims appended hereto.

