---

title: Aggregating and routing sensor data at a community sensor-coordinating entity
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes receiving sensor data from multiple sensors associated with multiple persons; for each of the sensors, identifying the person associated with the sensor; determining whether the sensor data are valid; and, for the sensor data that are valid, aggregating them based on the associations of their sensors with the persons and routing them to one or more sensor-application-service providers based on associations of the persons with the sensor-application-service providers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08963692&OS=08963692&RS=08963692
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08963692
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101029
---
A sensor network may include distributed autonomous sensors. Uses of sensor networks include but are not limited to military applications industrial process monitoring and control machine health monitoring environment and habitat monitoring utility usage healthcare applications home automation and traffic control. A sensor in a sensor network is typically equipped with a communications interface a controller and an energy source such as a battery .

In one embodiment a method includes receiving sensor data from multiple sensors associated with multiple persons for each of the sensors identifying the person associated with the sensor determining whether the sensor data are valid and for the sensor data that are valid aggregating them based on the associations of their sensors with the persons and routing them to one or more sensor application service providers based on associations of the persons with the sensor application service providers.

Characterizing and monitoring sensor data transported by a sensor network may facilitate monitoring the health of the sensor network. Herein reference to the health of a sensor network encompasses where appropriate substantially preventing sensor or other data from malfunctioning sensors from entering the sensor network substantially preventing sensor or other data from malicious rogue sensors or other devices from entering the sensor network substantially ensuring that sensors being added to the sensor network as associated with a user are valid with respect to the user substantially ensuring that sensors being added to the sensor network as associated with a user are valid with respect to the user substantially ensuring that sensors being added to a sensor community as associated with a user are valid with respect to the user proper functioning of sensors and other equipment in the sensor network such as property sensor coordinating entities community sensor coordinating entities and sensor application services or one or more other aspects of the health of the sensor network.

Particular embodiments characterize sensor data transported by a sensor network according to specifications logically associated with user identities as described below. Particular embodiments classify sensors to help assign weight to data indicating the health of a sensor network. As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor located at a residence of a user may be characterized as transmitting data only at low speed and only by broadcast. Particular embodiments may determine whether the sensor is transmitting data at a rate and interval specified by the owner or operator of the sensor and if the sensor is transmitting data at a rate or interval not specified by the owner or operator of the sensor then flag the sensor as potentially distrusted. Particular embodiments monitor sensor data using a community sensor coordinating entity that includes potentially distributed virtual entities in a sensor network which may include software processes representing persons properties sensors communities and coordinating and transformational services as described below. In addition or as an alternative particular embodiments monitor sensor data using property sensor coordinating entities as further described below. In particular embodiments a property sensor coordinating entity may associate sensors of known types in a sensor network to a specific user.

In particular embodiments a sensor includes one or more devices that measure or otherwise sense one or more physical quantities and convert the sensed physical quantities into or generate based on the sensed physical quantities one or more signals. Example physical quantities include but are not limited to chemical concentration electrical fields gravity humidity light location magnetic fields motion orientation pressure shear stress sound temperature tension or compression torsion and vibration. A signal may be a digital or analog electrical signal. Example sensors include but are not limited to an audio sensor electricity meter gas meter Global Positioning System GPS locator motion detector potentiometer which may for example operate as a fuel gauge pressure sensor which may for example operate as an altimeter barometer depth sensor flow sensor or leak sensor still or video camera thermometer and water meter. A sensor may include one or more sensors and may be unitary or distributed. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular sensors this disclosure contemplates any suitable sensors. Where appropriate a sensor may include one or more devices that send receive or forward information such as sensor data over a communication channel. In particular embodiments sensor data are one or more signals or representations of such signals that one or more sensors have converted one or more sensed physical quantities into or generated based on one or more sensed physical quantities.

In particular embodiments a community sensor coordinating entity has a web service oriented extensible software framework for constructing virtual sensor communities. With personal sensors and sensor networks becoming more available and pervasive such a framework may facilitate management of the resulting sensor data. Particular embodiments may also facilitate user participation in sensor communities and user access to sensor application services associated with sensor communities. In particular embodiments a sensor community may be a community of users that have a shared interest in particular subject matter or sensor application service that sensor data facilitate the study of provide or otherwise have a relationship to. Herein reference to a sensor community may encompass a virtual counterpart which may include one or more software processes or threads of execution running at a community sensor coordinating entity as described below and vice versa where appropriate. A sensor community may be similar in one or more respects to a social networks. As such sensor communities may provide integration opportunities with other non sensor related social network applications. This disclosure contemplates any suitable sensor community. In particular embodiments a sensor application service may be an information or a collection of application services provided to users or others possibly on a paid basis that involves sensor data as input. Similarly sensor owners may Be paid for providing their sensor data to sensor application service providers. This disclosure contemplates any suitable sensor application service.

A community sensor coordinating entity may facilitate a sensor network accommodating the substantially spontaneous generation of sensor communities which in turn may facilitate the provision of sensor application services as described below. As an example and not by way of limitation when a user joins a sensor community that permits the aggregation of sensor data from multiple users in a cooperative manner particular embodiments may construct network resources at a community sensor coordinating entity to coordinate the participation of the user in the sensor community. A community sensor coordinating entity may also facilitate the distribution of sensor data aggregation policing and routing functionality in a sensor network as described below. The extensibility of a community sensor coordinating entity in particular embodiments facilitates assembling relationships among software processes for sensor data aggregation policing and routing as well as coordinating and transformational services. In particular embodiments coordinating and transformational services are software processes for directing sensor data to sensor application services for handling as described below. Particular embodiments may process sensor data in a sensor network to get various sensor data from various sources to various systems responsible for providing particular sensor application services with respect to particular sensor data such as for example particular weather services with respect to particular meteorological sensor data. Particular embodiments provide methods and systems for the receipt and handling of sensor data by providers of sensor application services.

Particular embodiments use a sensor information model to validate sensor data. The sensor information model may employ associative characteristics such as for example the owner or operator of the sensor the sensor type the property where the sensor is located and the sensor community involvements of the owner or operator of the sensor. These associative characteristics may help protect against rogue or improperly operating sensors as described below. In particular embodiments a community sensor coordinating entity a property sensor coordinating entity or both may use one or more portions of a sensor information model that employs these associative characteristics. This disclosure contemplates any suitable sensor information model and any suitable associative characteristics. Particular embodiments use virtualization distributed networks and sensor information models to validate sensor data and provide sensor application services. Individuals such as consumers or organizations such as businesses or enterprises may use particular embodiments in their homes or buildings to aggregate large sets of sensor data for sensor application services. Value added resellers or information technology IT or telecommunications service providers may use particular embodiments to provide subscription based services for sensor applications to individuals or organizations.

One or more property sensor coordinating entities community sensor coordinating entities social networks and sensor application service providers may communicate with each other over a network cloud. The network cloud may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or another network or a combination of two or more such networks. The network cloud may include one or more network clouds. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network cloud. One or more links may connect a property sensor coordinating entity community sensor coordinating entity social network or sensor application service provider to the network cloud. In particular embodiments one or more of the links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links. In particular embodiments one or more of the links each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network or another link or a combination of two or more such links. A link may include one or more links. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links. Links need not necessarily be the same throughout the system. One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular connections among community sensor coordinating entities dwellings properties property sensor coordinating entities sensor application service providers social networks users and vehicles this disclosure contemplates any suitable connections among them. A cellular network may connect one or more users or vehicles to a social network which may in turn connect them to property sensor coordinating entities community sensor coordinating entities and other social network over a network cloud. In particular embodiments one or more links may connect a social network to a client script framework. The client script framework could reside within an intelligent endpoint controller property sensor coordinating entity community sensor coordinating entity sensor application service provider or a social network application service provider.

One or more users may each have a personal sensor network that operates according to policies set by the user. A personal sensor network of a user may include the sensors on the properties dwellings vehicles or person of the user and a property sensor coordinating entity which may aggregate sensor data from those sensors. A personal sensor network of a user may be self organizing. In particular embodiments a personal sensor network includes a home area network HAN or other suitable network. The sensors in a personal sensor network may be diverse. As an example and not by way of limitation the personal sensor network may include one sensor for detecting smoke another for measuring atmospheric pressure another for measuring temperature another for measuring wind speed and direction another for measuring vibration another for detecting particular sounds such as a glass break detector another for measuring time another for measuring electricity usage another for measuring natural gas usage and another for detecting the presence of the user in a particular area. And these sensors may differ from each other in terms of the functionality or operation such as data transmission.

In particular embodiments users may monitor their sensor data and participate in deciding how when and with whom or with what to share their sensor data. In addition or as an alternative in particular embodiments users may have one or more automatic software processes participate in deciding how when and with whom or with what to share their sensor data. In particular embodiments one or more social network applications may interact with property sensor coordinating entities community sensor coordinating entities or both as described below. In particular embodiments users have control over the privacy of their sensor data. In particular embodiments users may each have a personal identifier ID and property sensor coordinating entities community sensor coordinating entities or both may use the personal IDs of the users to aggregate sensor data as described below. In particular embodiments interactive client side software programs which may be accessible to users at their properties or elsewhere interact with server side software program using a coordinated software framework managed by the owners of the sensor data.

Particular embodiments provide applications and services to a user to manage access to sensor data secure sensor data broker the flow of information including sensor data to or from sensors perform accounting for the provision of sensor data or sensor application services or monitor the performance of sensors owned or operated by the user according to particular needs. In particular embodiments the architecture of a community sensor coordinating entity is independent of the sensor network technology used to transport sensor data to or from the community sensor coordinating entity. In particular embodiments a community sensor coordinating entity may have a scripting framework and web service oriented architecture that provide extensibility. Similarly in particular embodiments a property sensor coordinating entity may have a scripting framework and web service oriented architecture that provide extensibility.

In particular embodiments network equipment such as for example routers or intelligent endpoints may facilitate the distribution of intelligence across a sensor network. As an example and not by way of limitation a smartphone with video capability and network access may serve as a control element in a sensor application. In particular embodiments an end to end application framework is built into home gateway routers fixed and mobile web client applications and network core application servers. Particular embodiments may include sensor specific intelligent endpoint devices such as for example a remote control for the personal sensor network of a user. As an example and not by way of limitation such an endpoint device may enable a user to push a button to stop immediately sharing with one or more sensor communities sensor data from biometric sensors associated with the user.

In particular embodiments there may be incentives for users to have personal sensor networks or to add sensors to their personal sensor networks. As an example and not by of limitation there may be financial incentives such as for example tax breaks. As another example users may receive access to services in return for adding sensors to the personal sensor networks e.g. the WEATHER CHANNEL or another suitable entity that may provide weather related sensor application services may supply wind sensors to users and in return for having access to the sensor data from the wind sensors provide the users access to premium WEATHER CHANNEL services . As another example personal sensors that provide biometric monitoring may help users to improve their own health or monitor the health of others such as an aging parent.

In there are different interfaces for different elements in the sensor network. Interface is between sensors and a property sensor coordinating entity. A community sensor coordinating entity terminates sensor data from multiple property sensor coordinating entities using interface and terminates sensor data from mobile sensors using interface which may facilitate the handling of sensor data from multiple properties and users. The community sensor coordinating entity then routes validated sensor data using interface to sensor application service providers. In particular embodiments each of these points in the sensor network property sensor coordinating entity community sensor coordinating entity and sensor application service provider may employ similar algorithms implemented as software processes to determine the validity of sensor data.

Consider a user who has a collection of meteorological sensors at the property level that employ a specific communication technique that is privately known. This may be done to help block sensor data from potential rogue sensors. These rogue sensors may be sensors in a neighbor s yard or may represent an attempt by a hacker to inject unauthorized data into the users personal sensor network. To help block rogue sensor data particular embodiments use a sensor information model which may as an example and not by way of limitation be stored in one or more local or remote unitary or distributed databases or other data stores associated with a community sensor coordinating entity that includes associations between users and sensors with specific characteristics. Components of the sensor information model may be used at distributed points in the sensor network to help determine whether data being received at the property community or sensor application service level is valid. In particular embodiments the community sensor coordinating entity may be centrally located with respect to the sensor network. This may enable one or more centralized servers to facilitate the creation maintenance and coordinated use of the sensor information model to help validate sensor data.

Particular embodiments use preamble information and encoding techniques to validate sensor data. At the property level preamble information may indicate a power level sensor ID and sensor type and may be sent along with sensor data. Using this preamble information the property sensor coordinating entity may determine whether one or more transmission characteristics of received sensor data are appropriate. Continuing with the example of a user who has a collection of meteorological sensors a multiplexor or mux may collect sensor data from temperature wind and humidity sensors encode the sensor data and transmit the sensor data to a receiver in the user s house using FM radio on a predetermined frequency and time division multiplex TDM interval. An attempt may be made to keep this information private. The property sensor coordinating entity may determine in part or in whole whether the sensors are meeting the transmission characteristics for those sensors associated with the user. In addition or as an alternative the property sensor coordinating entity may hand this responsibility in part or in whole to the community sensor coordinating entity. In this hierarchy the property sensor coordinating entity may fulfill a role of helping to ensure the validity of sensor data by using Extensible Markup Language XML encoding techniques applying a checksum or signature certificate of the user to the sensor data. Different levels in the hierarchy may use different validation techniques.

As described above particular embodiments align policing functions based on user identities. As an example and not by way of limitation a user s meteorological sensors may use AM radio at low power to communicate to an HAN at intervals and frequencies determined by their association with the user. The user may police the health of the user s sensors from his smartphone or delegate this policing in whole or in part to a network policing entity which may reside at a community sensor coordinating entity or a property sensor coordinating entity . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular policing using particular patterns based on user identity this disclosure contemplates any suitable policing using any suitable patterns based on user identity. If a sensor behaves in a manner different from a pattern associate with the operator or owner of the sensor particular embodiments may flag the sensor as distrusted. As an example and not by way of limitation a light weight health pattern for meteorological sensors associated with a user may be four bits long. Two bits may indicate power e.g. low high normal off another bit may indicate pattern alert and another bit may indicate the detection of data corruption. This disclosure contemplates the identity of a user being stored in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way of limitation the owner or operator of a sensor may associate it with the identity of the owner or operator. As another example a sensor may be pre programmed with the identity of a user. The identity of a user may be embedded in a sensor. In addition or as an alternative there may be a finite number of pattern parameters the values of which a community sensor coordinating entity or a property sensor coordinating entity may determine based one the identity of a user. Sensors in a user s yard may be dumb devices that aggregate into a multiplexor mux that uses a radio to transmit to HAN equipment in the user s house. The mux may manipulate the pattern at the sensors and at the mux based on an algorithm which may be implemented by a software script determined by the identity of the user.

The policing functions of the sensor network work to help ensure that only sensor data from the sensors associated with a user and not from rogue or otherwise invalid sensors make their way up to the user s sensor communities. As described above in particular embodiments an architecture for accomplishing this includes virtual entities which may be data software processes or both representing 1 the user 2 properties associated with the user 3 sensor communities associated with the user and 3 sensors associated with the users. These virtual entities may be associated with the each other into relationships of interest in a sensor information model used by a community sensor coordinating entity or other elements of the sensor network. Consider as an example sensor type sensors along a property line to detect encroachment. These sensors may use radio signals to communicate their sensor data to an aggregation point. The aggregation point may collect the sensor data and perform validation and aggregation on the sensor data which would eventually be communicated up to an infrastructure e.g. a community sensor coordinating entity for creating and maintaining a virtual world for the user associated with the sensors.

Consider as another example sensor type meteorological sensors. As described above validating sensor data may involve at least in part attempting to ensure that the sensors being associated with a user or being added to one or more sensor communities associated with the user are valid to the user e.g. preventing the user s neighbor s sensors or malicious rogue sensors from being associated with the user or being added to a virtual community associated with the user . A community sensor coordinating entity which may in particular embodiments reside in a network cloud may include a sensor information model of the user that describes the user properties associated with the user and sensor communities associated with the user. The community sensor coordinating entity may use the sensor information model to validate the origin of particular sensor data.

Referring again to as an example and not by way of limitation interface is between a sensor and a property sensor coordinating entity. Along with its sensor data a sensor may communicate across interface a preamble that facilitates validation of its association with a user. The preamble may indicate a user ID sensor ID and sensor type. A sensor information model of a user may include information identifying the kinds of sensors that are likely to be associated with the user e.g. Jeff is interested in weather tracking so meteorological sensors on his property are okay . The property sensor coordinating entity may perform aggregation among the sensors on the property and local policing e.g. to help validate the sensor data coming in and communicate sensor data up to a community sensor coordinating entity. The community sensor coordinating entity may perform additional aggregation and policing on the sensor data and route them to sensor application service providers which may perform yet additional policing. Interface is between a property sensor coordinating entity which may be fixed source and the network cloud. Aggregated sensor data communicated from the property sensor coordinating entity to the network cloud may in particular embodiments have an XML over HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol or other suitable format. A preamble to sensor data from a property sensor coordinating entity may include 1 user ID 2 sensor type 3 sensor ID 4 radio type 5 channel 6 power level 7 checksum 8 interval and 9 XML schema. Interface is between a mobile source e.g. a smartphone associated with a user and the network cloud. The mobile source may communicate sensor data to the network cloud by Short Message Service SMS . A preamble to sensor data from a mobile source across interface may include 1 SMS 2 caller ID 3 sensor type and 4 sensor ID. Caller ID may associate the sensor data with a user. A community sensor coordinating or other entity may use the sensor information model to perform validation on coming across interface sensor data based on this preamble information. Interface is between a community sensor coordinating entity and a sensor application service provider. This disclosure contemplates the use of any suitable protocol from a sensor whether fixed or mobile. As an example and not by way of limitation a fixed source may use SMS or a mobile source may XML over HTTP to communicate sensor data along with preamble information. In addition or as an alternative a fixed sourced or a mobile source may use either XML over HTTP SMS or both where appropriate. Herein reference to sensor data may encompass corresponding preamble information where appropriate.

In particular embodiments a property sensor coordinating entity may be realized as an integrated part of a home or small business router with additional peripheral hardware and software. This disclosure contemplates a property sensor coordinating entity including any suitable hardware software or both. Where appropriate a community sensor coordination entity may be unitary or distributed span multiple locations or span multiple machines. Hierarchically a property sensor coordinating entity may be a downstream element with respect to a community sensor coordinating entity. In particular embodiments sensor multiplexing and communication equipment present on the property and peripheral to the router may be considered part of a property sensor coordinating entity. A property sensor coordinating entity may have as its primary functions obtaining validating and routing sensor data to a community sensor coordinating entity. Validation services at a property sensor coordinating entity may work together with validation services at a community sensor coordinating entity. In particular embodiments a property sensor coordinating entity may analyze one or more physical layer communication characteristics of sensor data to provide validation services. As an example and not by way of limitation the property sensor coordinating entity may check to see if a sensor associated with a user is operating on the correct timeslot or frequency.

A property sensor coordinating entity may receive inputs across interface from downstream sensors or sensor mux equipment and may communicate outputs across interface to an upstream community sensor coordinating entity. With respect to these inputs and outputs the property sensor coordinating entity may perform validation and adaptation on sensor data from interface to interface . In the process the property sensor coordinating entity may strengthen the validity of sensor data communicated upstream by providing validation data of greater weight. As an example and not by way of limitation downstream sensor data may be communicated up to the property sensor coordinating entity with simple user ID parameters and binary encoding and the property sensor coordinating entity may strengthen the validity of the sensor data at interface by providing XML encoding checksums or a public key certificate authenticating the user to the sensor data. In this role property sensor coordinating and community sensor coordinating entities may cooperate with each other to provide distributed services for validating sensor data before they are communicated to upstream sensor application service providers. Different embodiments may use different techniques for associating a sensor to a user depending on cost constraints. These techniques may include embedding user ID information in sensors or in distributed entities for multiplexing validating or routing sensor data such as for example a property sensor coordinating entity . An embedded user ID may be an access credential e.g. username and password or a public key digital certificate which may comply with International Telecommunication Union Telecom Standardization ITU T Recommendation X.509 issued and signed by a certificate authority. Other techniques include pattern recognition of user attributes like fingerprints or retinal scans. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular techniques for associating a sensor to a user this disclosure contemplates any suitable techniques for associating a sensor to a user.

In particular embodiments a community sensor coordinating entity may provide computing resources for users subscribed to sensor application services using a software framework that supports dynamic construction of computing resources on a just in time basis as users require services. Where appropriate a community sensor coordination entity may be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. As described above a community sensor coordinating entity may facilitate a sensor network accommodating the substantially spontaneous generation of sensor communities which in turn may facilitate the provision of sensor application services as described below. As an example and not by way of limitation when a user joins a sensor community that permits the aggregation of sensor data from multiple users in a cooperative manner particular embodiments may construct network resources at a community sensor coordinating entity to coordinate the participation of the user in the sensor community. In particular embodiments sensor communities may operate better with coordination framework software at the individual property and community level. When a sensor community is created a dynamic topology of distributed virtual machines VMs for the coordination of community sensor application services may be created specifically for that sensor community. A sensor community may be small scale and local or globally distributed. In particular embodiments a software framework at a community sensor coordinating entity may construct a virtual topology to serve a user as the user joins new sensor communities where sensor coordination is beneficial. In particular embodiments one or more unified computing system UCS platforms may provide one or more services of a community sensor coordinating entity. An IT service provider may operate the UCS platforms.

In each oval represent one or more software processes running on for example one or more UCS platforms. As an example and not by way of limitation VPerson may be a set of software processes dedicated to the user Jeff running in the UCS environment VProperty may be a set of software processes dedicated to a property associated with the user Jeff VCommunity may be a set of software processes dedicated to managing the relationships that the user Jeff has with third party entities that may provide one or more sensor application services e.g. the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE the National Aeronautics and Space Administration NASA and the WEATHER CHANNEL . A sensor information model which the community sensor coordinating entity may maintain for a user may describe the user the sensors associated with the user the properties associated with the user and the communities that the user is associated with.

Particular embodiments may implement a community sensor coordinating entity using a distributed virtual computing framework such as a UCS. In particular embodiments the underlying operating system OS may be LINUX based. In particular embodiments the interaction between client applications and web services may use XML over HTTP protocols such as for example Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP or Representational State Transfer REST . The resulting scripted event handlers may use script frameworks such as JavaScript Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Perl or Python. Particular embodiments may use client side frameworks for Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX interactions including frameworks such as Dojo or ADOBE FLEX. These frameworks may be deployed on a variety of client platforms including laptops tablets and smartphones. An API for a community sensor coordinating entity may include any suitable interfaces and may supports events such as for example creating deleting or maintaining a user account creating deleting or maintaining a user profile creating deleting or maintaining a property profile creating deleting or maintaining a sensor profile creating deleting or maintaining a community profile associating sensors and sensor communities with users and their properties processing a dynamic request from a user sensor or property to join or leave a sensor community and processing a request from a user to start or stop sensor application services to the user.

The method of may start at step where a community sensor coordinating entity receives a request from a user to join a sensor community. The user is associated with a property and one or more sensors on the property. At step the community sensor coordinating entity accesses a sensor information model of the user. At step the community sensor coordinating entity determines based at least in part on the sensor information model whether the user is authorized. At step if the user is authorized the community sensor coordinating entity determines whether a software process VPerson for the user is currently running. At step if there is not an instance of VPerson currently running for the user the community sensor coordinating entity spawns one. At step the community sensor coordinating entity determines whether a software process VProperty for the property is currently running. At step if there is not an instance of VProperty currently running for the property the community sensor coordinating entity spawns one. At step the community sensor coordinating entity determines whether a software process VCommunity for the sensor community is currently running. At step if there is not an instance of VCommunity currently running for the sensor community the community sensor coordinating entity spawns one. At step the community sensor coordinating entity determines whether there is any sensor data with the request from the user. At step if sensor data is present the community sensor coordinating entity determines based at least in part on the sensor information model whether the user is associated with e.g. authorized to use a sensor of the sensor type indicated by a preamble to the sensor data. At step if the sensor is properly associated with the user the community sensor coordinating entity determines whether a sensor of the sensor type indicated by the preamble to the sensor data is permitted by the sensor community. At step if a sensor of the sensor type indicated by the preamble to the sensor data is permitted by the sensor community the community sensor coordinating entity spawns a software process VSensor for the sensor that updates one or more routing tables to facilitate routing sensor data to one or more sensor application service providers associated with the sensor community. At step if there is sensor data from another sensor the method returns to step . In this way the community sensor coordinating entity may perform these checks for every sensor that is present in the sensor data received with the request from the user. At step if there is no sensor data from another sensor the method may end. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular steps of the method of as occurring in a particular order this disclosure contemplates any suitable steps of the method of occurring in any suitable order. Moreover although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular components carrying out particular steps of the method of this disclosure contemplates any suitable combination of any suitable components carrying out any suitable steps of the method of .

In particular embodiments processing sensor data in a sensor network to direct the sensor data to an appropriate sensor application service provider for proper handling is a function of a collection of related coordinating and transformational services. These services may reside at a community sensor coordinating entity. The community sensor coordinating entity may include a pre constructed software topology constructed based on users requests. When sensor data arrives at the community sensor coordinating entity the software topology may facilitate the routing of the sensor data to one or more sensor application service providers. In addition to spawning the software processes VPerson or VUser VSensor VProperty and VCommunity particular embodiments may also spawn software processes supporting them which may perform specific tasks for this routing. Referring to example software processes supporting VPerson VSensor VProperty and VCommunity include but are not limited to VSensorBroker VSensorPolicer VSensorRouter VSensorAggregator and VEntityAccounting. In particular embodiments VSensorBroker brokers agreements between users and sensor application service providers. As an example and not by way of limitation a user may have a collection of meteorological sensor data that the user wants to share with a weather sensor application service provider. An agreement between the user and the weather sensor application service provider may impose certain licensing terms on either or both parties. In addition the agreement may include provisions for payments by one party to the other.

A user s interactions with the community sensor coordinating entity may result in computing resources being dedicated to routing sensor data as they arrive. Similarly the user may be enrolled in multiple sensor communities for the same sensor data. The community sensor coordinating entity may use the sensor information model and the user s interactions with the community sensor coordinating entity to construct data driven rules for proper routing of the user s sensor data. As sensor data arrives at the community sensor coordinating entity the community sensor coordinating entity may validate the sensor data and the software process VPolicer may determine whether to drop or route the packets containing the sensor data. If routed the packets may proceed to the software process VRouter which may direct the packets to the appropriate sensor application service providers. Because sensor data may arrive from many sensors belonging to many users whether from fixed sensors on their properties or from mobile sensors and may often be headed to common destinations the software process VAggregator may aggregate the sensor data before they are sent from the community sensor coordination entity. The software process VAccounting may collect statistics for management of sensor data routing including billing users or sensor application service providers according to particular needs. In particular embodiments a community sensor coordinating entity operates in one or more respects as an application layer router dedicated to sensor data routing and management functions.

User A has biometric health related sensor data VUA Mobile Sensor meteorological sensor data VUA Sensor and energy management sensor data VUA Sensors and . User B has only biometric health related sensor data VUB Mobile Sensors and . User A has agreements in place to route his biometric health related sensor data to a Health. User A also routes meteorological sensor data to two different weather sensor application service providers Weather and NASA . User A also routes his energy management sensor data to Energy. User B routes all his sensor data to Health but the policing function is dropping all sensor data from his Mobile Sensor . In particular embodiments the user may have control over all routing of the sensor data of the user and the community sensor coordinating entity may manage this routing. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular routing arrangements this disclosure contemplates any suitable routing arrangements. As an example and not by way of limitation particular embodiments may route sensor data from User A to User B. In particular embodiments the framework of the community sensor coordinating entity is extensible to additional services such as the following 

Particular embodiments may provide these extended functions by the community sensor coordinating entity natively or by third parties because of the web service oriented extensible software framework and process scripting environment of the community sensor coordinating entity.

In particular embodiments a community sensor coordinating entity communicates aggregated sensor data upstream to a sensor application service provider. A sensor application service provider may work cooperatively with multiple community sensor coordinating entities to process sensor data with brokered agreements between the sensor application service provider and the owners of the sensor data. illustrates an example sensor application service provider. Particular embodiments may implement a sensor application service provider on one or more virtual compute platforms similar in one or more respects to the implementations described above for a community sensor coordinating entity. For a sensor application service provider a web service request framework may front end a software pipeline that handles incoming sensor data from one or more community sensor coordinating entities. Although shows only one sensor community VCommunity this disclosure contemplates any suitable number of sensor communities communicating sensor data up to the sensor application service provider.

In sensor data arrives from multiple sensors whether fixed or mobile associated with multiple users. Sensor data from Mobile Sensor associated with User A VUA and Mobile Sensors and associated with User B VUB arrives from a virtual sensor community software process running at a community sensor coordinating entity remote from the sensor application service provider. The sensor application service provider may include functions which may be software processes or threads of execution that cooperatively associate the sensor application service provider the community sensor coordinating entity and the users and their sensors with each other. As an example and not by way of limitation these functions may include a requests function broker function validate function police function accounting function and application function. The requests function may process requests from owners of sensor data or clients of the sensor application service provider which may be different from the owners of the sensor data . The broker function may handle licensing or other agreements between owners of sensor data and the sensor application service provider. The validate function may authenticate sensor data to agreements with users. The police function may screen out rogue sensor data or sensor data that does not correspond to an agreement in place . The accounting function may collect statistics for billing for the sensor application services provided by the sensor application service provider. The application function may provide the sensor application services of the sensor application service provider.

The sensor application service provider may use a data driven architecture based on rule objects a service information model and web service oriented interactions with user client applications to handle incoming sensor data. In the example of the sensor data may be typical of a heart electrocardiograph EKG in which biometric sensor data is received from multiple users and a widget or other user interface UI element is provided through a web browser or other portal for viewing. The viewers of the heart data may but need not be owners of the corresponding sensor data.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 105 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 105 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example DSL or DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example SONET or SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

