---

title: Exchange of location information using a wireless communication device
abstract: Exemplary techniques for sending data packages that can include geographic information during group communication sessions between wireless telecommunication devices, such as push-to-talk communication sessions, are disclosed. In an embodiment the data packages are wirelessly transmitted by a communication device to a group communication server and then sent to other group members.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08750915&OS=08750915&RS=08750915
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08750915
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100105
---
The present invention generally relates to wireless telecommunication systems. More particularly the present invention relates to techniques for sharing geographic coordinates between wireless communication devices.

In wireless communication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless communication devices often have data processing and computing capabilities and can accordingly send and receive software programs in addition to voice across the telephone network.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. Generally speaking the PTT system uses standard voice over internet protocol VoIP technologies. Voice information is sent in digital form over IP based data networks in discrete packets rather than traditional circuitry switched protocols such as those used in the public switched telephone network PSTN . In PTT scenarios instead of using the standard cellular infrastructure a call is formed by combining separate point to point connections between each IP endpoint in the network. Initiating the PTT system generates a call to the target device. The call originator s voice can be sent through the carrier s network to the target handset. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless communication device is commonly set up by the carrier. A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless communication device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. Existing PTT systems have advantages over traditional cellular systems because they have faster call setup times e.g. setup times ideally in the range of 1 second as opposed to cellular voice channels that can take more than 5 seconds to establish. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage his or her PTT button and he or she will have the floor.

In existing PTT systems member devices will only communicate voice data between the devices during a communication session e.g. when a group communication channel is opened between member devices. It is difficult to include other data in the session because of the size of the data and the device resources necessary to handle non voice data. The existing wireless communication devices therefore send non voice data such as data packages through specific data channels established between the device and a wireless communication network.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method for a wireless communication device to economically send data other than voice to others during a PTT or VoIP communication session.

The present system and method provide techniques for sending geographic location information using a group communication server. An exemplary embodiment describes a system for communicating geographical location data to one or more wireless devices of members of a communication group on a wireless network the system includes but is not limited to at least one requesting wireless device that is a member of a communicating group of a plurality of wireless devices the at least one requesting wireless communication device selectively in communication with a wireless network and configured to request the geographical location of at least one other wireless device of a member of a communication group and a group communication server that supports group communications between wireless devices of members of a communication group the group communication configured to selectively receive at least the request for geographical location data from the requesting wireless communication device and obtain the geographical location data for at least one member of the communication group and transmit the geographical location data to the requesting wireless device. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to storing in memory geographic coordinate information for a first wireless devices receiving from a second wireless device a group communication channel setup request the request including information that identifies the second wireless device and sending geographic coordinates information for the second wireless device to the first wireless device. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to receiving a group communication channel setup request from an originating device sending a group communication channel setup request to a target device the group communication channel setup request including a request for geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device and receiving a group communication channel acknowledgement signal from the target device the acknowledgment signal including the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to establishing a group communication channel between a target wireless device and an originating wireless device receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device via the group communication channel and sending the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device to the originating wireless device via the group communication channel. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to establishing a group communication channel between a target wireless device and an originating wireless device receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating wireless device via the group communication channel and sending the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device to the target wireless device via the group communication channel. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to storing geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device sending via a wireless signal a group communications channel setup request to a group communication server the request including information that identifies a target device and the geographic coordinates and receiving a signal indicating that the group communications channel has been established. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to sending a request for a group communications channel to a group communication server the request including information that identifies a target wireless device and receiving via an established group communications channel geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target wireless device from the group communication server. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to maintaining a group communications channel established between a wireless device and a remote wireless device receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the remote wireless device and displaying the geographic coordinates. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

In another embodiment a group communication server method is provided that includes but is not limited to sending by the wireless device a signal that grants a specific remote wireless device access to the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device via a group communication channel opened between the wireless device and the specific remote wireless device and sending from a wireless device geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device to a group communication server that is configured to selectively grant access to the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device during a group communication session. In addition to the foregoing other aspects are described in the claims drawings and text forming a part of the present disclosure.

The present system and method are therefore advantageous in that they allow a wireless communication device to economically send data packages and other data packages to others during a PTT communication session. Furthermore the method of queuing and forwards bundles of data packages can also be performed at the group communication server if the system is so embodied. The system and method thus have industrial applicability as they can be implemented on a group communication system in order to provide location information during group communication sessions. The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

In this disclosure the terms communication device wireless telephone wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device wireless communication device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term group communication is intended to encompass a half duplex or virtual half duplex communication channel used for one to many communications such as push to talk half duplex communications but can also embrace one to one communication where there are two only two group members present and communicating. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of use. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several drawings and the articles a and the include plural references unless otherwise specified in the description. It can be appreciated by one of skill in the art that one or more various aspects of the disclosure may include but are not limited to circuitry and or programming for effecting the herein referenced aspects of the present disclosure the circuitry and or programming can be virtually any combination of hardware software and or firmware configured to effect the herein referenced aspects depending upon the design choices of the system designer.

The term circuitry used throughout the disclosure can include hardware components such as application specific integrated circuits hardware interrupt controllers hard drives network adaptors graphics processors hardware based video audio codecs and the firmware software used to operate such hardware. The term circuitry can also include microprocessors configured to perform function s by firmware or by switches set in a certain way or one or more logical processors e.g. one or more cores of a multi core general processing unit. The logical processor s in this example can be configured by software instructions embodying logic operable to perform function s that are loaded from memory e.g. RAM ROM firmware etc. In example embodiments where circuitry includes a combination of hardware and software an implementer may write source code embodying logic that is subsequently compiled into machine readable code that can be executed by a logical processor. Since one skilled in the art can appreciate that the state of the art has evolved to a point where there is little difference between hardware software or a combination of hardware software the selection of hardware versus software to effectuate functions is merely a design choice. Thus since one of skill in the art can appreciate that a software process can be transformed into an equivalent hardware structure and a hardware structure can itself be transformed into an equivalent software process the selection of a hardware implementation versus a software implementation is insignificant to this disclosure and left to an implementer.

Embodiments may execute on one or more computers. and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the disclosure may be implemented. One skilled in the art can appreciate that computer systems disclosed herein can have some or all of the components described with respect to computer of .

Referring now to an exemplary computing system is depicted. Computer system can include a logical processor e.g. an execution core. While one logical processor is illustrated in other embodiments computer system may have multiple logical processors e.g. multiple execution cores per processor substrate and or multiple processor substrates that could each have multiple execution cores. As shown by the figure various computer readable storage media can be interconnected by a system bus which couples various system components to the logical processor . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. In example embodiments the computer readable storage media can include for example random access memory RAM storage device e.g. a electromechanical hard drive a solid state hard drive etc. firmware e.g. FLASH RAM or ROM and removable storage such as for example CD ROMs floppy disks DVDs FLASH drives external storage devices etc. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of computer readable storage media can be used to store data such as magnetic cassettes flash memory cards digital video disks Bernoulli cartridges etc.

The computer readable storage media provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer system such as during start up can be stored in firmware . A number of applications and an operating system may be stored on firmware storage device RAM and or removable storage devices and executed by logical processor .

Commands and information may be received by computer through input devices which can include but are not limited to keyboards and pointing devices. Other input devices may include microphones joysticks game pads scanners or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the logical processor through a serial port interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or universal serial bus USB . A display or other type of display device can also be connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter which can be part of or connected to a graphics processor . In addition to the display computers typically include other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers and printers. The exemplary system of can also include a host adapter Small Computer System Interface SCSI bus and an external storage device connected to the SCSI bus.

Computer system may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer. The remote computer may be another computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically can include many or all of the elements described above relative to computer system .

When used in a LAN or WAN networking environment computer system can be connected to the LAN or WAN through a network interface card NIC . The NIC which may be internal or external can be connected to the system bus. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer system or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. It will be appreciated that the network connections described here are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. Moreover while it is envisioned that numerous embodiments of the present disclosure are particularly well suited for computerized systems nothing in this document is intended to limit the disclosure to such embodiments.

Referring now to it illustrates an example wireless telecommunication device that can be a wireless communication device with a PTT button that opens the direct communication to a target device e.g. an endpoint associated with an IP address. The wireless communication device is also shown as having a graphics display . The wireless communication device can include a computer platform that can handle voice and data packets execute software applications and transmit information across a wireless network. The computer platform includes among other components at least one processor such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a RISC processor such as those that implement the ARM architecture. The processor is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless communication device and is not normally upgradeable. The wireless communication device can include a GPS chipset not shown that can generate geographic information indicative of the location of the wireless communication device. The processor or other microprocessor can execute an application programming interface API layer which can include an operating system which can control the hardware of the mobile device. An example of an operating system is the binary runtime environment for wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM for wireless communication device platforms.

As shown here the wireless communication device can be a wireless communication telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but can also display geographic coordinates on a map as described in more detail in the following paragraphs.

The computer platform can also include a direct communication interface that can open a direct communication channel with an endpoint such as a group communication server of . The direct communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless communication device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless communication device . The direct communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

Continuing with the description of additionally depicted is a diagram of an embodiment of the software layers of the group application client that can include but is not limited to PTT functionality and GPS coordinate sharing functionality. In an embodiment the computer platform in the wireless communication device environment can include a series of software layers developed on top of the Mobile Station Modem MSM and the Advanced Mobile Subscriber Software AMSS developed by QUALCOMM . In this example the underlying MSM chipset can implement the software protocol stack for the entire suite of CDMA communication technologies that include CDMA2000 1X and CDMA2000 1xEV DO. In this example the AMSS can be configured to support a mobile operating system layer which in an embodiment is BREW also developed by QUALCOMM . The mobile operating system layer can provide an application programming interface for chip or device specific operations while providing an isolation layer that eliminates direct contact to the AMSS and any OEM software on the mobile device . The mobile operating system layer can enable application development that uses wireless communication device features without having to rewrite the application each time a new release of the device specific software is released.

In this example the mobile operating system can support a PTT client that is configured to offer access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT client can include all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the GPS subsystem . In an embodiment the PTT client can maintain access to PTT services respond to communication requests process all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services process all outgoing PTT requests collect and package vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parse packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The GPS subsystem can be a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to a GPS service. The GPS subsystem can provide access to GPS services through an external interface such as a GPS aware API that is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The GPS subsystem can additionally be configured to handle incoming GPS coordinates and or requests from the group communication server for coordinates as described in more detail below. Other push to talk applications or applications than can receive and transmit data across the group communication channel can also be resident on the platform.

In an embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as wireless communication telephone can send a flag to at least the group communication server e.g. one or more computers that can have components similar to computer of which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network . The flag in this example can be used by the server to determine that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network . The group communication server can share this information with a set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or it can also share this with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication server can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices and for example GPS coordinates of the various devices operating in the wireless network . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The group communication server can establish point to point IP PTT channels between devices in the group . A PTT channel can be established through a half duplex channel true or virtual between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and or and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication server can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication server of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication server can also inform the wireless telecommunication device and of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication server of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the communication server is shown here as having the attached database of group identification data the group communication server can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

The group communication server can also be configured to store GPS coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless devices in the target set . For example the group communication server can store GPS coordinates in persistent storage e.g. database or the GPS coordinates can be temporarily stored in RAM as GPS coordinates flow from one wireless device to another. In various embodiments the group communication server can selectively obtain e.g. by retrieving from memory or by receiving from the wireless devices GPS coordinates and selectively send the coordinates to other wireless devices of the group .

In overview the system can include at least one wireless communication device such as wireless communication telephone that can be a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices. The wireless communication devices in this example can be configured to communicate with each other or communicate as a group across a wireless communication network . In addition at least one of the wireless communication devices can be configured to selectively send data packages to other members of the communication group . At least one group communication server is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The group communication server can be further configured to selectively receive GPS coordinates from a sending wireless communication device such as wireless communication telephone of a communication group store the GPS coordinates and or send the GPS coordinates to other members of the PTT group .

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the group communication server at the time of sending GPS coordinates e.g. a target list and thus the database can be configured to send or store the GPS coordinates to or for the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending data packages the wireless communication device and can request member data for a communication group from the group communication server and the server can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device and . In one embodiment the group communication server can filter the potential communication groups available based upon their member devices capability to receive GPS coordinates.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device and can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send data packages during the group communication in the same communication session or independently therefrom. Alternately the data packages can be sent independently of the group communication session.

Continuing with the description of each group communication server s can be coupled to an authentication authorization and accounting server AAA to authenticate the wireless communication devices and or . The AAA can be coupled to a database operable to store information such as user accounts and privileges. In this example the group communication server s can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The wireless network can control messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network in this example can communicate with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the wireless network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones A through D by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and wireless communication telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of data packages which are discrete segments of computer code such as applications web pages applets MIDlets multi media picture games and simple data. In wireless devices that have designated a group communication group such as depicted by the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However such direct group communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication server . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the group communication server itself but the group communication server must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

The following are a series of flowcharts depicting operational procedures. The flowcharts are organized such that the initial flowcharts present implementations via an overall viewpoint. Those having skill in the art can appreciate that the style of presentation utilized herein e.g. beginning with a presentation of a flowchart s presenting an overall view and thereafter providing additions to and or further details in subsequent flowcharts generally allows for a rapid and easy understanding of the various operational procedures.

Turning now to it illustrates an operational procedure including operations and . Operation begins the operational procedure and operation depicts storing in memory geographic coordinate information for a first wireless device. For example and referring to depicted is a group communication server that can include components similar to those of e.g. a logical processor ram etc. In this example logical processor can execute a PTT application and a location engine that supports the distribution of geographic coordinates during PTT sessions. The location engine can be executed and geographic coordinates of wireless devices in for example a PTT group can be stored in computer readable media . In an example embodiment the geographic coordinate information can include GPS coordinates A GPS coordinates or information that can be used to generate coordinates. As used herein GPS coordinates and A GPS coordinates can be jointly referred to as GPS coordinates for ease of understanding. The GPS coordinates can be determined by a global positioning system GPS of satellites that transmits signals that allow GPS receivers to determine their location their velocity and the current time. Assisted GPS A GPS is a technology used by mobile devices to improve the reliability of GPS in environments that have poor signal conditions. An A GPS receiver can improve reliability over a GPS system by using assistance from a mobile network that can acquire satellite information and perform calculations on behalf of the mobile device.

Continuing with the description of operation depicts receiving from a second wireless device a group communication channel setup request the request including information that identifies the second wireless device. For example a network adaptor of the group communication server can receive a group communication channel setup request e.g. a message. For example and referring to the user of the device A may determine that they want to have a PTT conversation with a user of a target device B and request a push to talk session. The call setup request can contain for instance the target device s address. The call setup request may also be sent with a DataOverSignaling Access channel message. The network adaptor can process the request and send an interrupt to the processor indicating that a new message has been received. The processor can run the PTT server application and process the group communication request.

In a specific embodiment the call setup request message can be embodied in a session initiation protocol SIP message. The message can include XML for example that identifies the mobile device e.g. telephone number mobile subscriber identifier username password for authorization purposes and information that identifies the second wireless device e.g. a telephone number of the second wireless device an IP address etc.

Continuing with the description of operation depicts sending geographic coordinates information for the second wireless device to the first wireless device. For example and referring to geographic coordinates information e.g. GPS coordinates or information that can be processed by the first device to determine the position of the second device device B can be sent from the group communication server to the first device e.g. device A. For example processor of the group communication server can execute the location engine that supports the distribution of geographic coordinates during PTT sessions and the geographic coordinates stored in memory can be sent to the originating device. For example the location engine can run and receive information that identifies the second wireless device. The location engine can then search database for geographic information for the second wireless device. The location engine can pass the geographic information to the PTT application which can send the information to the first wireless device.

In an embodiment the group communication server can send the geographic coordinate information in a message that identifies that the channel was opened. For example in one specific example the group communication server can assign the session an identifier and send an INVITE message to the wireless device A indicating that the channel has been opened and information that identifies a floor control identifier. In this example the geographic coordinate information can be embedded within the INVITE message and sent to the wireless device A for example.

In an embodiment where a PTT session is established between many wireless devices e.g. multiple targets the geographic coordinates for each target can be sent to the originating device. In this example an operator of an originating device can quickly determine where each target is located.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including additional operations . As illustrated by the figure operation shows that in an embodiment sending geographic coordinate information for the second wireless device to the first wireless device can include sending the geographic coordinate information for the second wireless device to the first device in a floor grant message. For example as stated above the device that has the floor can use the group communication channel to send data to the group communication server . The PTT application of the group communication server can be executed to insure that only one device has the floor at any given time by implementing a floor control protocol. The protocol can include methods for notifying devices that no device controls the floor notifying devices that a device has released the floor receiving floor requests notifying devices that a device has been granted the floor etc. In this example embodiment the PTT application can receive information that GPS coordinates are to be shared during certain floor control messages. In this instance when a floor grant message is sent to devices it can include the GPS coordinate of the second device B. The processor of the server can run the PTT application that can obtain location information from the location engine . The PTT application can then generate a floor grant message e.g. a SIP message that includes GPS coordinates and send the message to the first device A

Continuing with the description of operation shows that in an embodiment receiving the group communication channel setup request can include receiving a group communication channel setup request that includes a request for the location of the second wireless device. For example in an embodiment the network adaptor of the group communication server can receive a setup request message that includes a request for the target s geographic coordinates. Similar to that described above the setup request message can be embodied in a message. When the PTT button is pressed the processor can be interrupted and directed to execute the PTT client . The PTT client can configure the processor to generate a message addressed to the group communication server . The message can include XML for example that identifies the mobile device e.g. telephone number mobile subscriber identifier username password for authorization purposes the identity of the second wireless device and a request for GPS coordinates.

Continuing with the description of operation it shows that in an embodiment receiving the group communication channel setup request can include but is not limited to receiving a group communication channel setup request that includes geographic coordinate information indicating the location of the first wireless device. For example in an embodiment the group communication channel setup request message can include the first wireless device s coordinates. For example the GPS subsystem of the device can obtain the GPS coordinates from for example a GPS chipset and make the coordinates available to a PTT aware UI . When the PTT button is pressed the processor can be interrupted and directed to execute the PTT client . The PTT client can obtain the coordinates and configure the processor to generate a message addressed to the group communication server . The message can include XML for example that identifies the mobile device e.g. telephone number mobile subscriber identifier username password for authorization purposes the identity of the second wireless device and GPS coordinates indicative of the location of the first wireless device.

Turning to operation it illustrates receiving geographic coordinate information indicating the location of the first wireless device via an established group communication channel and sending the geographic coordinate information indicating the location of the first wireless device to the second wireless device via the established group communication channel. For example in an embodiment a PTT communication channel can be established between the first and second device device A and B . In this example embodiment the network adaptor of the group communication server can receive geographic coordinate information for the originating device and send the geographic coordinate information to the target via the established PTT channel. In this example the group communication server can encode the geographic coordinates into one or more packets and send the packets to the second device.

In a specific embodiment the geographic coordinate information can be sent while the first device has the floor. For example a user of the first device can request the floor. A floor grant message can be received by the first device and the GPS coordinates can be sent to the group communication server during the next talk burst sent by the first device. That is in this example GPS coordinates may be sent using a single floor control mechanism that is used for both the PTT call and the sharing of GPS information. The GPS subsystem in this example request that the PTT client add GPS coordinates to the existing PTT call. The add GPS request can contain an indication that the data is to be shared using the same floor control mechanism as the PTT Client . The PTT Client can then send the GPS coordinates during the next talk burst to the group communication server . Once the server receives the coordinates they can be sent to the target device and or stored in the server .

In another specific example the GPS coordinates can be sent using a different floor control mechanism than the one used for the PTT call. In this example the GPS coordinates are sent independently from the voice data over another PTT channel. For example in an embodiment the mobile device can send a request to the group communication server to obtain an additional group communication channel in order to share for example GPS coordinates. In this scenario a group communication channel can be opened between the first and second wireless device and the first wireless device can receive a request via the PTT aware UI indicating that GPS coordinates are to be shared. In this example the coordinates can be shared using a separate floor control mechanism than the PTT call i.e. independent of the floor control mechanism being used for the PTT call and send a request to the PTT client to add a new channel. A new channel can be assigned by the group communication server and a signal can be sent to the target device. The PTT client of the target can receive the signal and assign a new port for sending or receiving GPS coordinates and then send the new port identifier in an acknowledgement to the group communication server . After the new channel is successfully added to the PTT call the originator can request the floor e.g. access to the half duplex channel to send GPS coordinates. The GPS client can be configured to notify the PTT client that GPS coordinates have been added and the PTT client can send a PTT floor request to the group communication server that include the floor identifier assigned to the additional channel. The group communication server can verify that the floor for the additional channel is available prior to granting the floor request. The PTT client can receive a signal indicating that the floor was granted and then the transceiver of the originator can send GPS coordinates to the server. Once the server receives the coordinates they can be sent to the target device and or stored in the server.

Continuing with the description of operation illustrates sending a group communication channel setup request to the second wireless device the group communication channel setup request including geographic coordinate information indicating the location of the first wireless device. For example in an embodiment the group communication server can execute the PTT application and a network adaptor can be configured to send a communication channel setup request to the second wireless device B. In this example the communication channel setup request message can include geographic coordinates of the first wireless device A and a request to assign a port to service a PTT session. In a PTT example the group communication server can locate the target by looking up the IP address associated with the target and discovering which base station has last serviced the wireless device associated with the IP address. The group communication server can send a message to the base station and the base station can send a message via a control channel to the second wireless device B. The PTT client of the second wireless device can receive the signal and assign a new port for the PTT session and then send the new port identifier in an acknowledgement to the group communication server . In this example the PTT client of the second wireless device B can receive the message and parse the message to discover the geographic coordinates.

Turning now to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations and . Operation begins the operational procedure and operation illustrates receiving a group communication channel setup request from an originating device. For example a network adaptor of the group communication server can receive a group communication channel setup request message. For example the user of the device may determine that they want to have a PTT conversation with a user of a target device e.g. device of and request a push to talk session. The call setup request message can contain for instance the target device s address. The call setup request may also be sent with a DataOverSignaling Access channel message. The network adaptor can process the request and send an interrupt to the processor indicating that a new message has been received. The processor can run the PTT server application and process the group communication request.

Continuing with the description of operation shows sending a group communication channel setup request to a target device the group communication channel setup request including a request for geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device. Continuing with the example the group communication server can receive the request message and send a call setup request message to the target device. For example the group communication server can include circuitry e.g. processor s configured by the PTT application configured to determine where in the network the target device is located. The group communication server can receive the information and can route a call setup message to the base station controller currently servicing the target device. The base station controller can then wirelessly send a call setup request message to the target device over a control channel directing the target device to assign a port to service the PTT session. The target device can be configured to for example enter into a PTT session or deny the request in response to user input or timeout. In this example the message can include the request for the target s GPS coordinates. In a specific embodiment message sent to the target can be a SIP invitation message. The message can include XML that identifies the originating device e.g. telephone number and a request for GPS coordinates.

Turning to operation it depicts receiving a group communication channel acknowledgement signal from the target device the acknowledgment signal including the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device. Continuing with the example a network adaptor of the group communication server can receive an ACK message that acknowledges that the target is willing to enter into a PTT session. The message can include the geographic coordinates. The PTT application can be run and the geographic coordinates can be sent to the location engine which can store the coordinates in a database . In an embodiment the target device can generate the ACK message which can include the GPS coordinates of the target device. For example a SIP ACK message can be sent from the target device that can include an XML field that has the GPS coordinates. For example when the call setup request message is received by the target the PTT aware UI can be executed by processor and a user interface can display an option to enter into a PTT session an option to enter into a PTT session and share GPS coordinates and or an option to deny the request to enter into the PTT session. In the instance where the target device receives the request to enter into the PTT session and share GPS coordinates the PTT client can obtain GPS coordinates generated by a GPS chipset and embed the coordinates in the invite accept message. In this example the message can include the GPS coordinates and the coordinates can be received by and for example stored in memory of the group communication server .

Continuing with the description of operation shows sending a signal indicating that a group communication channel has been established to the originating device the signal indicating that the group communication channel has been established including the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device. Continuing with the example the group communication server can send can the geographic coordinates in a message that identifies that the channel was opened. For example in one specific example the group communication server can assign the session an identifier and send an INVITE message to the wireless device indicating that the channel has been opened and information that identifies a floor control identifier. In this example the geographic coordinates can be embedded within the INVITE message and send to the wireless device . For example the PTT application can send a request for the geographic coordinates to the location engine . The geographic engine can be run and the coordinates can be retrieved from the database for example. The PTT application can generate an INVITE message that includes a field including the geographic coordinates and a flag that indicates that the message includes geographic coordinates.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including the additional operations . In an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of the operational procedure can include operation which shows receiving via a group communication channel geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating device and sending the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating device to the target device. For example in an example embodiment that includes operation a group communication channel can be established between the originating and target devices. In this example embodiment the network adaptor of the group communication server can receive geographic coordinates for the originating device and send the geographic coordinates to the target via for example the established group communication channel a different group communication channel an email a text message etc. In a specific example the network adaptor can receive one or more packets of information from the originating device. The one or more packets can include the geographic coordinates. In this example the network adaptor can store the coordinates in computer readable media and send an interrupt to processor . The processor can run the PTT application and can obtain the geographic coordinates. The coordinates may be stored in database and or the coordinates can be placed in packets and sent to the target device.

In a specific embodiment the geographic coordinates can be sent while the originator device has the floor. For example a user of the originator device can request the floor. A floor grant message can be received and the device can receive a request via the PTT aware UI indicating that GPS coordinates are to be shared during a subsequent talk burst. In another specific example the GPS coordinates can be sent using a different floor control mechanism than the one used for the PTT call. In this example the GPS coordinates are sent independently from the voice data over another PTT channel.

In yet another example the GPS coordinates can be received via the group communication channel and sent to the target device in an email or text. For example the target can be associated with an email account. The group communication server can receive the GPS coordinates during a PTT spurt and the processor can execute the PTT application that can determine for example whether the target device can receive GPS coordinates via a PTT channel and or whether a flag has been set indicating that the user of the device would want to receive GPS coordinates via a different mechanism. In this example the PTT application can be executed by the processor and the processor can determine an email address associated with the target. The processor can then be configured to send the GPS coordinates to an email server. The email server can then send the GPS coordinates to the email address associated with the target. Similarly instead of an email account the PTT application can be executed by a processor and a determination can be made that the target should be sent the GPS coordinates via text message. In this example the processor can then be configured to send the GPS coordinates to a text message server which can send a text message to the target.

Continuing with the description of operation illustrates receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating device from the originating device during a floor request. For example a floor request message sent from the originating device can be received by a network adaptor . In this example the message can include the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating device. In a specific example the network adaptor can receive one or more packets of information from the originating device that include a floor grant message having geographic coordinates. In this example the network adaptor can store message in computer readable media and send an interrupt to processor . The processor can run the PTT application and the PTT application can parse the message to obtain the geographic coordinates. The PTT application can then be run and the coordinates can be stored in the database . Once the server receives the coordinates they can be sent to the target device.

Continuing with the description of operation illustrates receiving the group communication channel setup request from an originating device the group communication channel setup request including geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating device. For example in an embodiment the group communication server can receive a call setup request message that includes the originator s geographic coordinates. For example the GPS subsystem can obtain the GPS coordinates from a GPS chipset and make the coordinates available to a PTT aware UI . When the PTT button is pressed the processor can be interrupted and directed to execute the PTT client . The PTT client can obtain the coordinates and configure the processor to generate a message addressed to the group communication server . The message can include XML for example that identifies the mobile device e.g. telephone number mobile subscriber identifier username password for authorization purposes the identity of the second wireless device and GPS coordinates indicative of the location of the first wireless device.

Turning now to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations . Operation begins the operational procedure and operation shows establishing a group communication channel between a target wireless device and an originating wireless device. For example in an embodiment a PTT communication channel can be established between the originating and target device. In this example embodiment the network adaptor of the group communication server can receive a request to setup a channel. A PTT application can be executed by a processor and the communications server can perform PTT call setup functions including locating the target opening up IP channels between various IP endpoints in the network applying call restrictions selecting a vocoder etc. Various messages can be sent back and forth between the devices and the group communication server during the channel setup process.

Continuing with the description of operation shows receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device via the group communication channel. For example a group communication channel can be established between the originating and target device. In this example embodiment the network adaptor of the group communication server can receive geographic coordinates for the target device. In a specific example the network adaptor can receive one or more packets of information from the target device. The one or more packets can include the geographic coordinates. In this example the network adaptor can store the coordinates in computer readable media and send an interrupt to processor . The processor can run the PTT application and can obtain the geographic coordinates. The coordinates may be stored in database and or the coordinates can be placed in packets and send to the originator device.

In a specific embodiment the geographic coordinates can be sent while the target device has the floor. For example a user of the target device can request the floor. A floor grant message can be received and the device can receive a request via the PTT aware UI indicating that GPS coordinates are to be shared during a subsequent talk burst. In another specific example the GPS coordinates can be sent using a different floor control mechanism than the one used for the PTT call. In this example the GPS coordinates are sent independently from the voice data over another PTT channel.

Operation shows sending the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device to the originating wireless device via the group communication channel. Once the coordinates are received by the group communication server they can be sent to the originating device via the group communication channel. The GPS coordinates can be processed and displayed by the originating device.

Turning to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations . Operation begins the procedure and operation shows establishing a group communication channel between a target wireless device and an originating wireless device. For example a processor of a group communication server can execute instructions that configure it to establish a group communication channel between a target and originating device. A PTT application can be executed by a processor and the communications server can perform PTT call setup functions including locating the target opening up IP channels between various IP endpoints in the network applying call restrictions selecting a vocoder etc. Various messages can be sent back and forth between the devices and the group communication server during the channel setup process.

Operation shows receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating wireless device via the group communication channel. For example a group communication channel can be established between the originating and target device. In this example embodiment the network adaptor of the group communication server can receive geographic coordinates for the originating device. In a specific example the network adaptor can receive one or more packets of information from the originating device. The one or more packets can include the geographic coordinates. In this example the network adaptor can store the coordinates in computer readable media and send an interrupt to processor . The processor can run the PTT application and can obtain the geographic coordinates. The coordinates may be stored in database and or the coordinates can be placed in packets and send to the originator device.

Operation shows sending the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device to the target wireless device via the group communication channel. For example once the coordinates are received by the group communication server they can be sent to the target device via the group communication channel. Subsequently the GPS coordinates can be processed and displayed by the target device.

Turning to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations . Operation begins the operational procedure and operation shows storing geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device. For example and turning to memory e.g. RAM or flash ROM can store geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device . For example the geographic coordinates can be GPS coordinates obtained by a chipset built into the device . A GPS subsystem can process information generated by the chipset and store GPS coordinates in memory .

Continuing with the description of operation shows sending via a wireless signal a group communications channel setup request to a group communication server the request including information that identifies a target device and the geographic coordinates. For example a transceiver of wireless device can wirelessly send a request for a group communication channel to a base station controller of . In this example the request can identify a target and include the geographic coordinates. For example a PTT aware UI can be executed by processor and rendered on a screen . The device can receive a request to enter into a PTT session via a touchpad and a target can be selected from a contact book e.g. a program that uses a data structure stored in memory .

In the same or another embodiment the device can receive a request to send GPS coordinates in a setup request message. In this case the PTT client can receive information that identifies the target and receive the geographic coordinates from memory . The PTT client can send information to the transceiver which will wirelessly transmit the information to the group communication server . In an embodiment the PTT client can generate a call setup message addressed to the IP address of the group communication server . When the PTT button is pressed the processor can be interrupted and directed to execute the PTT client . The PTT client can configure the processor to generate a message addressed to the group communication server . The message can include XML for example that identifies the mobile device e.g. telephone number mobile subscriber identifier username password for authorization purposes information that identifies the second wireless device and GPS coordinates.

Continuing with the description of operation shows receiving a signal indicating that the group communications channel has been established. Continuing with the example the PTT client can receive a signal from the group communication server which indicates that the group communication channel has been opened between the originating device and the target device. For example the transceiver can receive an INVITE message indicating that the channel has been opened and information that identifies a floor control identifier. The processor can be interrupted and execute the PTT client . The processor can then receive the signal and assign a new port for sending or receiving PTT call spurts.

Turning to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operations . Operation shows receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device and displaying the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device. For example transceiver of device can receive geographic coordinates that identify the location of the target and display can display the coordinates. Various transmission mechanisms can be used to send the geographic coordinates to the device . For example the GPS coordinates can be received via a control channel or a group communication channel. The coordinates can also be received via email or text. The device can be configured to receive the coordinates and display the coordinates on the user interface. In this example the processor can be interrupted with the geographic coordinate information is received and the PTT aware UI can be run. The processor can render on a display the location of each device that is in the PTT session with device . In the same or another embodiment a user interface notification can identify the target device that currently has the floor.

Continuing with the description of it additionally includes operation which shows receiving via the group communications channel geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device and displaying the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device. For example transceiver of device can receive geographic coordinates that identify the location of the target and display can display the coordinates. In this example the coordinates can be received over the group communication channel. For example the target can obtain the floor and send geographic coordinates to the originator via the floor or independently from the voice floor over another PTT channel The device can be configured to receive the coordinates and display the coordinates on display . In this example the processor can be interrupted with the geographic coordinate information is received and the PTT aware UI can be run. The processor can render on a display the location of each device that is in the PTT session with device . In the same or another embodiment a user interface notification can identify the target device that currently has the floor.

Continuing with the description of operation shows receiving a signal indicating that the target device has the floor the signal indicating that the target device has the floor including geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target device. For example the floor grant message can be received by the device indicating that the target has the floor. In this example the GPS coordinates for the target device can be included in the message that identifies that the target has the floor. For example when the target requested the floor the PTT application of the group communication server could have been executed to insure that only one device has the floor at any given time by implementing a floor control protocol. The PTT application can grant the target the floor and send a message to the originator that indicates that the target obtained the floor. In this example embodiment the PTT application can be run and receive information that GPS coordinates are to be shared during certain floor control messages. In this instance when a floor grant message is sent to the originator it can include the GPS coordinate of the target device. The processor of the server can run the PTT application that can obtain location information from the location engine . The PTT application can then generate a floor grant message e.g. a SIP message that includes the GPS coordinates and send the message to the originator. The originator device can receive the message and the PTT client can be run. The message can be parsed and the coordinates can be obtained.

Continuing with the description of it additionally shows operation which illustrates receiving via an established group communications channel geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the target wireless device from the group communication server. For example a transceiver of the wireless device can receive geographic coordinates for the target via the group communication channel. In this example the transceiver can store the coordinates in a buffer and interrupt a processor. The processor can run the PTT client and the client can receive the information from the buffer and store the coordinates in memory .

In a specific embodiment the geographic coordinates can be sent while the target device has the floor. For example a user of the target device can request the floor. A floor grant message can be received and the device can receive a request via the PTT aware UI indicating that GPS coordinates are to be shared during a subsequent talk burst. In another specific example the GPS coordinates can be sent using a different floor control mechanism than the one used for the PTT call. In this example the GPS coordinates are sent independently from the voice data over another PTT channel.

Turning now to it illustrates an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operations and . As illustrated by the figure operation shows sending a request message for a floor to the group communication server the request message including geographic coordinates indicative of the location of an originating wireless device. For example a transceiver of wireless device can wirelessly send a request for a floor of the group communication channel to a base station of . In this example the request can include geographic coordinates of the sending device. For example a PTT aware UI can be executed by processor and rendered on a screen . In this example the PTT aware UI can receive a request to send PTT coordinates via the floor request message and the PTT client can be configured to obtain GPS coordinates from GPS subsystem when the PTT button is pressed. When the PTT button is pressed the GPS client can be configured to notify the PTT client that GPS coordinates have been added. The PTT client can send a PTT floor request to the group communication server that includes the floor identifier assigned to the channel.

Continuing with the description of the figure operation shows displaying a request for geographic coordinates indicative of the location of an originating wireless device receiving input authorizing the request for the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating wireless device and sending the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the originating wireless device to the group communication server. For example in an embodiment the device can display a request for geographic coordinates. For example PTT client can receive a signal from the group communication server which includes a request for GPS coordinates. The PTT client can be executed by processor and the request can be displayed on the user interface. The wireless device can receive input via a touchpad or the like that indicates that the GPS coordinates can be shared. In this instance the GPS subsystem can be executed and the current coordinates can be sent to the group communication server via for example a group communication channel or other data channel.

Turning now to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations . Operation begins the operational procedure and operation shows maintaining a group communications channel established between a wireless device and a remote wireless device. For example in an embodiment a wireless device can maintain a group communication channel that exists between the device and a remote wireless device. For example in an embodiment a channel can be opened and assigned an IP port and information can be stored in memory . A PTT client can be executed by a processor and the processor can listen for signals on the port. Session information identifiers and information that identifies another device in the session can be stored in a data structure in memory .

Continuing with the description of operation shows receiving geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the remote wireless device. For example the wireless device can maintain a group communication channel and receive geographic coordinates for a remote wireless device. For example a transceiver of the wireless device can receive GPS coordinates. The transceiver can store the GPS coordinates in a buffer and send an interrupt to the processor . The processor can be configured to run interrupt handler code that direct it to run the PTT client . The PTT client can receive the GPS coordinates from the buffer and store the coordinates in memory .

Continuing with the description of operation shows displaying the geographic coordinates. For example the device can be configured to receive the coordinates and display the coordinates on the display . In a specific example the processor can execute the PTT client and can send the coordinates to the PTT UI . The PTT UI can be executed and the processor can display the coordinates on display . In this example the display can display the location of each device that is in the PTT session with device . In the same or another embodiment the screen can also display each target and identify which one currently has the floor. In an example embodiment displaying the geographic coordinates can include displaying an icon at the location defined by the geographic coordinates. In this example the PTT UI can render a map and overlay the icon on the geographic coordinates. The display may also be configured to place identification information on the map to show which device the icon is associated with.

Turning to it shows an alternative embodiment of the operational procedure of including operations . Operation shows receiving a signal indicating that the remote wireless device has the floor and modifying a displayed icon that represents the geographic coordinates. For example the transceiver of wireless device can receive a signal indicating that the remote wireless device has the floor. For example in an embodiment the group communication server can be configured to receive floor grant requests and grant them. In the instance that a floor grant request message is received from a device the group communication server can in an embodiment grant the request and send signals to the other devices in the group that indicates that the floor is taken. In this case the PTT aware UI can receive information that the remote wireless device has the floor and the processor can be configured to modify an icon that represents the position of the remote wireless device by for example changing the color of the icon configuring the icon to flash changing the size or shape of the icon etc.

Continuing with the description of operation shows receiving the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the remote wireless device via the group communications channel. For example a transceiver of the wireless device can receive geographic coordinates for the remote wireless device via the group communication channel. In this example the transceiver can store the coordinates in a buffer and interrupt a processor. The processor can run the PTT client and the client can receive the information from the buffer and store the coordinates in memory .

In a specific embodiment the geographic coordinates can be sent while the remote wireless device has the floor. For example a user of the remote wireless device can request the floor. A floor grant message can be received and the device can receive a request via the PTT aware UI indicating that GPS coordinates are to be shared during a subsequent talk burst. In another specific example the GPS coordinates can be sent using a different floor control mechanism than the one used for the PTT call. In this example the GPS coordinates are sent independently from the voice data over another PTT channel.

Continuing with the description of operation shows receiving the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the remote wireless device via a floor grant message. For example the floor grant message can be received by the device indicating that the target has the floor. In this example the GPS coordinates for the target device can be included in the message that identifies that the target has the floor. For example when the target requested the floor the PTT application of the group communication server could have been executed to insure that only one device has the floor at any given time by implementing a floor control protocol. The PTT application can grant the target the floor and send a message to the originator that indicates that the target obtained the floor. In this example embodiment the PTT application can be run and receive information that GPS coordinates are to be shared during certain floor control messages. In this instance when a floor grant message is sent to the originator it can include the GPS coordinate of the target device. The processor of the server can run the PTT application that can obtain location information from the location engine . The PTT application can then generate a floor grant message e.g. a SIP message that includes the GPS coordinates and send the message to the originator. The originator device can receive the message and the PTT client can be run. The message can be parsed and the coordinates can be obtained.

In another example the wireless device can receive a message indicating that it has been granted the floor. In this embodiment the message indicating that the device has been granted the floor can include the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the remote wireless device. For example the group communication server could have previously stored the geographic coordinates for the remote wireless device in computer readable storage media . In this example a processor of the group communication server could execute PTT client in response to receiving the floor grant request from wireless device. The PTT application can then generate a floor grant message e.g. a SIP message that includes the GPS coordinates and send the message to the originator. The originator device can receive the message and the PTT client can be run. The message can be parsed and the coordinates can be obtained.

Continuing with the description of operation shows sending the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device via the group communication channel. For example a transceiver of a wireless device can send GPS coordinates via an established group communication channel to for example the group communication server . In a specific example the group communication channel can include a push to talk channel. In this scenario the user can be participating in a PTT call and the device can receive a request via the PTT aware UI indicating that GPS coordinates are to be shared during a subsequent talk burst from the device . The GPS subsystem can send or make available e.g. by placing information in a shared memory GPS coordinates so that the PTT client can send them during the existing PTT call. The add GPS request can contain an indication that the data is to be shared using the same floor control mechanism as the PTT Client or in another specific example the GPS coordinates can be sent by using a different floor control mechanism than the PTT call. In either case the PTT client can be executed by the processor and the processor can send the GPS coordinates during a PTT talk spurt.

Continuing with the description of operation depicts sending a group communications channel setup request that includes geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device. For example a transceiver of a wireless device can send GPS coordinates via an established group communication channel to for example the group communication server . In a specific example the group communication channel can include a push to talk channel In this scenario the user can be participating in a PTT call and the device can receive a request via the PTT aware UI indicating that GPS coordinates are to be shared during a subsequent talk burst from the device . The GPS subsystem can send or make available e.g. by placing information in a shared memory GPS coordinates so that the PTT client can send them during the existing PTT call. The add GPS request can contain an indication that the data is to be shared using the same floor control mechanism as the PTT Client or in another specific example the GPS coordinates can be sent by using a different floor control mechanism than the PTT call. In either case the PTT client can be executed by the processor and the processor can send the GPS coordinates during a PTT talk spurt.

Turning to it illustrates an operational procedure for practicing aspects of the present disclosure including operations . Operation begins the operational procedure and operation illustrates sending by the wireless device a signal that grants a specific remote wireless device access to the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device via a group communication channel opened between the wireless device and the specific remote wireless device. For example a wireless device can execute instructions that configure a transceiver to send a signal to a group communication server . The signal in this example can include the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device. For example the GPS subsystem can be configured to execute in a predetermined manner and obtain the wireless device s location e.g. it can run when the processor is interrupted when a call is received when user input is received at a predetermined time interval when a signal from a base station is received etc. When the GPS subsystem executes it can obtain GPS coordinates from a GPS chipset of the wireless device and send the coordinates to the group communication server via a transceiver.

In this example the group communication server can be configured to store the GPS coordinates of at least the wireless device in a database . The group communication server can execute the PTT GPS application and the processor can update the location of the wireless device . In this example the PTT GPS application can be configured to selectively grant access to the GPS coordinates during group communication sessions. That is when a PTT channel is opened between the wireless device and another wireless device e.g. device the group communication server can be configured to selectively send the GPS coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device to the other device based on whether or not access to the coordinates has been granted to the other wireless device .

Continuing with the description of operation shows sending by the wireless device a signal that grants a specific remote wireless device access to the geographic coordinates indicative of the location of the wireless device via a group communication channel opened between the wireless device and the specific remote wireless device. For example in an embodiment the wireless device can send a signal to the group communication server that authorizes the server to send geographic coordinates to a specific wireless device that is currently in a group communication session with the wireless device. For example a group communication session can be opened between the wireless device and a specific remote wireless device. If the wireless device was the originating device a PTT aware UI could have been executed by processor and rendered on a screen . The device could have received a request to enter into a PTT session via a touchpad and the specific remote wireless device could have been selected from a contact book e.g. a program that uses a data structure stored in memory . In addition the device can receive a request to send GPS coordinates in the setup request message. If the wireless device was the target it could have received a call setup request message and the PTT aware UI could have been executed and a request could be displayed on display . The user interface e.g. touchpad could have received a request to enter into the session and a transceiver could have sent a signal indicating a desire to enter into a group communication session .

Regardless as to who was the originator or the target an operator of the wireless device can select an option displayed by display that sends a signal to the group communication server indicating that GPS coordinates can be released to the remote wireless device. For example during the conversation the remote wireless device could send a request for the coordinates that is subsequently displayed by display . In a specific example the request may say something such as Would you like to send GPS coordinates to remote wireless device The user of device can select Yes or No and the server can act accordingly. In another example the operator of mobile device may on his or her own decide to release GPS coordinates to the remote wireless device. In this example the PTT aware UI can render a screen that allows the user via a user interface to select an option to send coordinates. A signal can be sent to the group communication server and the server can send the coordinates to the remote wireless device.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems and or processes via examples and or operational diagrams. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein.

