---

title: Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for smart pattern capturing and layout fixing
abstract: Various embodiments are directed at methods and systems for implementing automatic fixing of a layout, implementing fuzzy pattern replacement, and implementing pattern capturing in a layout of an electronic circuit design. Various processes or modules comprise the act or module of identifying a first pattern from within an electronic circuit layout. The processes or modules also comprise identifying a fixing process or a replacement pattern for the first pattern and the act of performing pattern replacement or pattern fixing on the first pattern. The processes or modules may further comprise the act or module of searching the layout for patterns that match the first pattern, and the act or module of performing pattern replacement of pattern fixing on the patterns that match the first pattern. Some embodiments are also directed at articles of manufacture embodying a sequence of instructions for implementing the processes described here.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08516406&OS=08516406&RS=08516406
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08516406
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 354 212 which is entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR SMART PATTERN CAPTURING AND LAYOUT FIXING filed on Jun. 12 2010 the contents of which are expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties. This application is cross related to U.S. application Ser. No. 11 609 901 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 818 707 filed on Dec. 12 2006 and entitled FAST PATTERN MATCHING U.S. application Ser. No. 12 133 563 filed on Jun. 5 2008 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR MODEL BASED DESIGN AND LAYOUT OF AN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 241 409 filed Sep. 30 2008 and entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR PERFORMING PATTERN CLASSIFICATION OF PATTERNS IN INTEGRATED CIRCUIT DESIGNS the contents of all the aforementioned applications are expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This application is further cross related to U.S. application Ser. No. 12 982 693 filed currently with the instant Application on Dec. 30 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR SMART PATTERN CAPTURING AND LAYOUT FIXING and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 982 730 filed currently with the instant Application on Dec. 30 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR SMART PATTERN CAPTURING AND LAYOUT FIXING . The contents of both applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

A semiconductor integrated circuit IC has a large number of electronic components such as transistors logic gates diodes wires etc. that are fabricated by forming layers of different materials and of different geometric shapes on various regions of a silicon wafer.

The various components of an integrated circuit are initially defined by their functional operations and relevant inputs and outputs. From the HDL hardware description language or other high level description the actual logic cell implementation is typically determined by logic synthesis which converts the functional description of the circuit into a specific circuit implementation.

An integrated circuit designer may use a set of EDA application programs to create a physical integrated circuit design layout from a logical circuit design. The EDA application uses geometric shapes of different materials to create various electrical components on an integrated circuit and to represent electronic and circuit IC components as geometric objects with varying shapes and sizes. During this process the design components are placed e.g. given specific coordinate locations in the circuit layout and routed e.g. wired or connected together according to the designer s circuit definitions .

Conventional EDA tool often performs various pattern matching operations for various purposes such as verification or optimization by invoking various EDA applications running on one or more computing nodes. Moreover each of these EDA applications usually operates on an instance of the layout of the electronic circuit design to perform its own designated functions. For example a layout editor may open an instance of the layout to perform its designated functions such as schematic entry circuit simulation custom layout physical verification extraction etc. In the meantime a place and route tool may open another instance of the layout to perform its placement and routing functions. Therefore if there exists a problematic area within the layout the user or designer often needs to invoke for example both the place and route tool and the layout editor to fix the problematic area in the layout. Such a process often involves one or more round trips between the respective computing nodes on which the place and route tool and the layout editor reside or large amount of data transmission between the place and route tool and the layout editor.

Recent place and route tool development has envisioned so called DFM aware design for manufacturing routers. In such an approach the router is supplied with some rule based or model based DFM data to aid the router to route the design with potentially fewer DFM issues. Nonetheless with the layout editor performing various verification and simulation functions such an approach still requires transfer of vast amount of data between the placement and route tool and the layout editor.

Therefore there exists a need for methods systems and articles of manufacture for smart pattern capturing and layout fixing.

Disclosed are various embodiments of methods systems and articles of manufactures for implementing pattern capturing in a layout of an electronic circuit design. In some embodiments the methods or systems comprise the processes or modules for identifying a first set of one or more layers identifying a first pattern identifying one or more patterns that match the first pattern by at least searching against the first set of one or more layers or purposes hereinafter layer and storing the one or more patterns in a non transitory computer readable storage medium or displaying the one or more patterns in a display apparatus.

In some embodiments the processes or system may further comprise one or more of the acts or modules of identifying or determining one or more key areas or one or more don t care areas for the first pattern analyzing the first pattern to determine an effect of the first pattern on the electronic circuit design performing one or more post capturing actions on the one or more patterns and performing one or more post action actions on the one or more patterns. Some embodiments are directed at articles of manufacture embodying a sequence of instructions for implementing these processes.

In some embodiments the methods or system comprise the processes or modules for implementing fuzzy pattern replacement in a layout of an electronic circuit design. The methods or systems comprise the processes or modules of identifying a first pattern from within the layout identifying one or more second pattern based at least on one or more don t care areas of the first pattern and performing the fuzzy replacement by replacing the first pattern with at least one of the plurality of second patterns in the layout. Some embodiments are directed at articles of manufacture embodying a sequence of instructions for implementing these processes.

In some embodiments the processes or system may further comprise one or more of the acts or modules of identifying one or more patterns that match the first pattern by at least searching against one or more layers or purposes of the layout for the one or more patterns performing the fuzzy replacement by replacing the one or more patterns with the second pattern in the layout determining a decomposition scheme that decomposes the first pattern into a plurality of sub patterns for a double patterning process determining the at least one of the plurality of second patterns based at least in part upon a context in which the first pattern resides and adjusting the at least one of the plurality of second patterns after the at least one of the plurality of second patterns is used to replace the first pattern to improve the electronic circuit design.

In some embodiments the methods or system comprise the processes or modules for implementing automatic fixing of a layout of an electronic circuit design. The methods or systems comprise the processes or modules of identifying a first pattern from within the layout receiving or identifying a fixing process for the first pattern performing the fixing process to the first pattern and associating the fixing process with the first pattern in some embodiments.

The methods or the systems may further comprise one or more of the acts or modules of analyzing the result of the act of performing the fixing process within a context in which the first pattern is situated identifying one or more patterns that match the first pattern on one or more layers or purposes in the layout performing the fixing process on the one or more patterns that match the first pattern in some embodiments.

The methods or the systems may further comprise one or more of the acts or modules of adjusting the first pattern after the fixing process is performed on the first pattern to improve the electronic circuit design and performing a minimum perturbation fixing process in some embodiments. Some embodiments are directed at articles of manufacture embodying a sequence of instructions for implementing these processes. Some embodiments are directed at articles of manufacture embodying a sequence of instructions for implementing these processes.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to methods systems and articles of manufacture for smart pattern capturing and layout fixing. Other objects features and advantages of the invention are described in the detailed description figures and claims.

Various embodiments of the methods systems and articles of manufacture will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and the examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the present invention. Where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components or methods or processes only those portions of such known components or methods or processes that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described and the detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components or methods or processes will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Further the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the components referred to herein by way of illustration.

Referring to which illustrates a high level architectural view of some embodiments directed to a system for smart pattern capturing and layout fixing that interacts with one or more users or designers in some embodiments. In these embodiments that are directed to systems for smart pattern capturing and layout fixing the system comprises a computing system as described with reference to . The computing system comprises some non transitory computer readable storage medium such as RAM random access memory in which one or more layouts of electronic circuit designs may be loaded. The computing system may further comprise or interact with another non transitory computer readable storage medium such as a disk drive on which various data or information such as databases libraries rules layouts or various results of various modules is stored.

The computing system may further comprise various modules including one or more of a pattern capture module a pattern analysis module an action module a post action module an integrated fixing module and a layout editing module . In some embodiments the integrated fixing module and the layout editing module constitute two separate modules. In some other embodiments the integrated fixing module is integrated within the layout editing module where a user or a designer using the layout editing module may invoke the integrated fixing module to perform the complete functions of the integrated fixing module . An exemplary layout editing module comprises for example an IC layout editor.

The pattern capture module captures one or more patterns in the layout based at least in part on certain input in some embodiments and will be described in more details in subsequent paragraphs with references to one or more figures. In some embodiments the input comprises for example a pattern in the layout that is interactively identified by the user. In some embodiments the input comprises a known good pattern that is identified from for example a database of patterns. In some embodiments the input comprises for example a known bad pattern that is known to cause problems such as negative impact on yield. In some embodiments this known bad pattern is identified from for example a database of patterns. The pattern analysis module performs various processes or actions to analyze one or more patterns which various processes will be described in more details in subsequent paragraphs with references to one or more figures. In some embodiments the various processes or actions comprise the process for determining a fuzzy or inexact hereafter fuzzy match. In some embodiments of this fuzzy match the match metric is defined using one or more key areas zero or more don t care areas or one or more space or empty areas in an identified pattern. In some embodiments of fuzzy match the match metric is defined using an area correlation. In some embodiments the various processes or actions comprise the process for scanning one or more don t care areas to determine where or how to modify one or more patterns. In some embodiments the various processes or actions comprise the process for determining decomposition of a pattern for double patterning in a lithography process.

The action module performs various processes or actions on one or more patterns in some embodiments which various processes or actions will be described in more details in subsequent paragraphs with references to one or more figures. In some embodiments the various processes or actions comprise for example layout compaction verification or design optimization. The post action module performs various actions or processes such as persistently storing the results of one or more processes or actions after the action module has completed its designated processes or actions in some embodiments. In some embodiments the one or more processes or actions performed by the post action module may comprise for example providing reports review recommendations or graphical or textual results of various processes or actions in a user interface or graphical user interface.

The integrated fixing module performs various processes or actions on the layout in some embodiments which various processes or actions will be described in more details in subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figure s in some embodiments. In some embodiments the various processes or actions comprise for example layout fixing capturing and reproduction script editing or drafting for layout fixing performing double cut insertion pattern replacement re targeting DFM issue fixing fixing process description rip up and reroute incremental re route incremental placement etc. In some embodiments the layout editing module performs various processes or actions that a commercially available layout editor may perform which various processes or action comprise for example simulation schematic entry circuit simulation custom layout physical verification extraction etc.

It shall be noted that some or all of these modules in may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof and all these modules interacts with various hardware components such as one or more processors and physical memories to perform various processes or actions as described herein. It shall also be noted that some of these modules may be combined as one single module. For example the action module and the integrated fixing module may be combined into a single module to perform various actions or processes in some embodiments.

In various embodiments various modules are operating upon patterns in one or more layouts of an electronic circuit design. A pattern may comprise a portion of the layout in some embodiments. A pattern may also comprise a cell or an instance of a cell in the layout in some embodiments. A pattern may further comprise one or more geometries or shapes in the layout in some embodiments. Moreover various modules operate upon a pattern of the layout by treating the pattern as an image such as a two dimensional or multi dimensional image in some embodiments. For example a pattern may comprise an actual printed or simulated image of the corresponding portion of the layout in these embodiments. Various modules may also treat a pattern as a geometric pattern such as an as drawn polygon for an interconnect in some embodiments. Various modules may further treat a pattern as a set of data points such as a set of coordinates defining the corners of a pattern in some embodiments.

In various embodiments the various modules in interact with the non transitory computer readable storage medium and to read data from or write data to. In some embodiments at least the integrated fixing module and the layout editing module are sharing the non transitory computer readable storage medium such that both the integrated fixing module and the layout editing module are operating upon the same layout of an electronic circuit design. The sharing of the non transitory computer readable storage medium between the integrated fixing module and the layout editing module eliminates data transfer between the integrated fixing module and the layout editing module because both modules and are operating upon the same layout.

Referring to which illustrates a high level flow diagram of a process or system for smart pattern capturing in an electronic circuit layout in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the act or module of identifying a first set of layers or purposes from a layout . In these embodiments the first set of layers comprises one or more layers that will be searched against to identify one or more patterns hereinafter matched patterns that match against certain designated pattern s . More details about identifying the one or more matched patterns will be described in subsequent paragraphs with references to various figure s .

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing further comprises identifying a second set of layers or purposes from the layout at . In some embodiments the second set of layers or purposes is used to identify a pattern of interest that may be used to identify other matched patterns in the layout. In various embodiments a layer denotes a layer in a semiconductor film stack. For example a layer may refer to metal 1 a poly silicon layer a metal 5 layer etc. A modern semiconductor film stack often comprises more than 20 layers each of which may be designated or identified by the processes or systems as described in various embodiments of the Specification. It shall also be noted that a router or a routing engine does not usually operate upon or use the metal 1 layer or a poly silicon layer. Nonetheless the processes or systems described herein may also apply to the metal 1 and poly silicon layers. In some embodiments a purpose comprises a single data type of a layer. A layer may comprise multiple purposes or multiple data types in some embodiments. In some embodiments a purpose does not correspond to more than one layer. In some embodiments the process or action comprises receiving a user s interactive selection or identification of the first set of layers or the second set of layers by for example interactively clicking on one or more visible layers in the user interface or graphical user interface. Some examples will be provided in subsequent paragraphs with references to one or more figures.

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the action or module for identifying a first pattern in the layout at . In some embodiments the action or module comprises receiving a user s identification selection or creation of a pattern from within a layout editing module such as a commercial layout editor. For example a user may identify the pattern by clicking on a particular pattern in the layout window or on a reference designator of a pattern in the layout editing module. In some embodiments the pattern may be identified in accordance with for example a DRC design rule checking error marker from simulation results from certain model based analytical results or from results of a DFM design for manufacturing backend engine. More examples will be provided in subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figure s . In some embodiments the action or module may also comprise an identification of a pattern from a database or other types of data structures of known good or known bad patterns that have been shown to respectively have positive and negatively impact on for example design for manufacturing yield or performance.

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the process or module for identifying or determining one or more key areas zero or more don t care areas one or more space or empty areas hereinafter space area or a bounding box for the first pattern at . In some embodiments a key area comprises the entire area that needs to be covered by geometries of a second pattern if the second pattern is considered to be a matched pattern of the first pattern. In some embodiments a space area of the first pattern comprises the area that needs to be fully uncovered by the second pattern s geometries if the second pattern is determined to be a matched pattern of the first pattern. In some embodiments a don t care area comprises an area where the geometries of a second pattern that fall within this area do not affect the determination of whether or not the second pattern is considered a matched pattern of the first pattern. In other words a don t care area of the first pattern need not be completely covered or uncovered by the geometries or shapes of the second pattern in order for the second pattern to be considered as a matched pattern of the first pattern. In some embodiments the process or module comprises receiving a user s identification selection or creation of one or more key areas one or more don t care areas or more space areas or a bounding box from within a layout editing module such as a commercial layout editor. For example a user may create a key area by drawing a rectangle in the layout editing module.

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the process or module for invoking the analysis module at . In some embodiments the process or system comprises identifying one or more rule decks of one or more rules. In some embodiments the one or more rules comprise a design rule. In some embodiments a rule deck comprises a list of patterns that further includes stream file s layer definition s or filtering rule s . The stream file and layer definition are all well known term in OpenAccess . A filtering rule is an additional filtering step that may be performed on the matched patterns. For example a user may apply a recommend rule DRC check to the matched patterns to filter out only those matched patterns that fail this recommended rule. In another example a user may specify a model based check such as lithography analysis on the matched patterns to filter out only those patterns that are verified hotspots. In another example a user may apply a second fuzzy match metric such as an area correlation to filter out only those patterns that are correlated to the match pattern. In some embodiments a rule deck comprises a list of matching or fixing rules that takes for example one or more patterns or one or more layers as input.

In the above example of a pattern definition pattern name is mandatory and the default value for version is 2. Pattern source name type is also mandatory and pattern source may be either oasis or gdsii . Source file name is mandatory. Bounding box purpose is mandatory. Key purpose is mandatory but Don t care is optional. Detailed description severity of the pattern and filtering rule are optional. It shall be noted that in the above example the filtering rule serves to filter out and return only matching regions that also fail a given rule. Exemplary filtering rules comprise minimum space rule minimum notch rule etc. Exemplary values for these filtering rules are based on recommended rules.

The following illustrates an exemplary matching and fixing rule definition for a multi layer pattern.

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the process or module for determining whether or not various processes are to be multi threaded at . In some embodiments the process or module of further comprises determining the number of threads to be used for various processes. In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the process or module for searching the layout or the second set of layers or purposes of the layout for one or more matched or unmatched patterns of the first pattern at . In some embodiments the process or module of identifying matched patterns comprises similar techniques as described in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 133 563 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 609 901 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 818 707 both of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

In some embodiments the process or module identifies unmatched patterns by first searching against the layout or against the second set of layers or purposes of the layout for matched patterns of the first pattern. The process or module then exclude these identified matched pattern from consideration or from further consideration by other processes or modules. For example in some embodiments where the first pattern constitutes a known good pattern the process or module may identify the matched patterns in the layout or in some layers of the layout and then exclude these identified matched patterns from further consideration by for example a DFM backend engine that checks patterns to determine whether these patterns give rise to some DFM related issues.

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the process or module for optionally creating a new window for an interactive matched pattern browser at . The interactive matched pattern browser provides information and reference links for the identified matched patterns for the user to quickly navigate among these matched patterns in some embodiments. In some embodiments the interactive matched pattern browser comprises a graphical user interface which further comprises one or more groups of the identified matched patterns. Each group may be expanded to show the corresponding matched patterns. A group may be formed based on the pattern orientation or the pattern type. Each identified matched pattern may correspond to a reference link that causes the graphical display of the corresponding pattern to be displayed in a layout window when the reference link or the matched pattern is activated or clicked upon. The interactive matched pattern browser may also comprise a layout window that shows the pattern s of interest. illustrate an exemplary implementation of various processes or modules described herein and contain some exemplary implementation of the interactive matched pattern browser. The interactive matched pattern browser will be described in further details in subsequent paragraphs with reference to at least some of .

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the process or module for invoking the action module to perform one or more processes at . In some embodiments the one or more processes comprise grouping the identified matched or unmatched patterns based at least in part upon the orientation of the identified patterns upon the types of the identified patterns upon the severity of the identified patterns or upon the specific DFM failure s . For example the process or module at may group identified patterns into the same group where each of the identified patterns to be grouped in the same group comprises the same geometric shapes but is in the same or a different orientation from others or is a mirror image of another. As another example the process or module at may also group identified patterns in the same group if these identified patterns are not entirely identical but their differences in the geometric shapes fall within the don t care areas of the first pattern.

In some embodiments the one or more processes comprise performing verification of the underlying electronic circuit design by examining one or several instances of the first pattern or the identified matched patterns. In some embodiments the one or more processes comprise performing layout compaction based at least upon the identified patterns. In some embodiments the one or more processes comprise performing a pattern classification to group patterns based on metrics such as area correlation or edge registration. One example of this type of classification is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 241 409 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 079 005 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In some embodiments the one or more processes comprise identifying the nets related to the matched patterns and grouping of matched patterns by shared circuit nets.

In some embodiments the process or system for smart pattern capturing comprises the process or module for invoking the post action module to perform one or more processes at . In some embodiments the one or more processes comprise generating a graphical or textual representation of the identified matched patterns for review.

Referring to which illustrates a high level flow diagram for a process or a system for pattern replacement in an electronic circuit layout in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying a first set of layers or purposes or a second set of layers or purposes from within a layout at . In these embodiments the first set of layers comprises one or more layers that will be searched against to identify one or more matched patterns. In some embodiments the second set of layers or purposes is used to identify a pattern of interest that may be used to identify other matched patterns in the layout. In various embodiments a layer denotes a layer in a semiconductor film stack.

For example a layer may refer to metal 1 a poly silicon layer a metal 5 layer etc. A modern semiconductor film stack often comprises more than 20 layers each of which may be designated or identified by the processes or systems as described in various embodiments of the Specification. It shall also be noted that a router or a routing engine does not usually operate upon or use the metal 1 layer or a poly silicon layer. Nonetheless the processes or systems described herein may also apply to the metal 1 and poly silicon layers.

In some embodiments a purpose comprises a single data type of a layer. A layer may comprise multiple purposes or multiple data types in some embodiments. In some embodiments a purpose does not correspond to more than one layer. In some embodiments the process or action comprises receiving a user s interactive selection or identification of the first set of layers or the second set of layers by for example interactively clicking on one or more visible layers in the user interface or graphical user interface.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying a first pattern from within a layout of an electronic circuit design at . In some embodiments the action or module comprises receiving a user s identification or selection of a pattern from within a layout editing module such as a commercial layout editor. For example a user may identify the pattern by clicking on a particular pattern in the layout window or on a reference designator of a pattern in the layout editing module. In some embodiments the pattern may be identified in accordance with for example a DRC design rule checking error marker from simulation results from certain model based analytical results or from results of a DFM design for manufacturing backend engine. More examples will be provided in subsequent paragraphs with reference to various figure s . In some embodiments the action or module may also comprise an identification of a pattern from a database or other types of data structures of known good or known bad patterns that have been shown to respectively have positive and negatively impact on design for for example design for manufacturing yield or performance.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying one or more don t care areas one or more key areas or one or more space areas for the first pattern at .

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying one or more second patterns that may be used to replace the first pattern at . In some embodiments the one or more second patterns may be identified by receiving user s input from a user interface or a graphical user interface. For example the user may identify a pattern which may cause some problems with yield or other aspects of the electronic circuit design. The user may initiate some fixing processes to correct the original pattern. After the fixing processes the pattern is determined to be good by for example the DFM backend engine a DRC engine a simulation engine etc. Then the process or module at may identify this fixed pattern as the second pattern. In some embodiments the one or more second patterns may be identified from a database or other types of data structures of patterns that are known to be good in terms of for example design for manufacturing yield performance etc. In some embodiment the one or more second patterns are decomposed into two or more additional layers that have been verified for manufacturability for the purposes of performing a double patterning layer decomposition.

Moreover after the don t care area for the first pattern has been identified the process or module at may modify the geometries of the first pattern and invoke the pattern analyzer such as a DRC engine or a DFM backend engine to identify the second pattern in some embodiments. For example the area in illustrates a don t care area for the pattern as defined by the bounding box of the first pattern. Assuming the first pattern may result in some negative impact on yield such as the necking problem as illustrated by the printed or simulated geometry the process or module at may exploit the don t care area to see if modifying the line end of the middle key area by stretching it to a point just outside the don t care area may resolve the necking problem. If the process or module determines that stretching the line end of the middle key area successfully solves the necking problem the process or module at may identify this new pattern as the second pattern for the original pattern. In another example the separation between the key areas may be increased to resolve the necking problem. In another embodiment the process or module at may modify the geometries of the first pattern within the confine of the don t care area. For example in a good pattern flow the don t care area captures a family of possible geometry movements that are good.

In some embodiments the process or module at may identify the second pattern from a database or other types of data structures that store patterns that are known to be good in terms of for example DFM DRC yield etc. by determining whether there exists any pattern that differs from the first pattern and that the difference between the first pattern and the second pattern lies completely within the don t care area of the original first pattern. If the process or module at identifies such a pattern from the database or data structure that is known to be good the process or module at may identify such a pattern as the second pattern.

In some embodiments the process or module at may identify a plurality of second patterns where at most one of the plurality of second patterns may be used to replace the first pattern. More details about which second pattern will be selected or identified to replace the first pattern will be described in greater details in subsequent paragraphs with reference to one or more figures. In some embodiments the process or module at may choose different second patterns to replace the first pattern at different locations by taking the context information including the neighboring geometries within a certain range of the respective first pattern into consideration.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of optionally creating a new window for an interactive matched pattern browser at . In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of replacing the first pattern with the second pattern at .

Referring to which illustrates more details of a high level process flow diagram for a process or a system for pattern replacement from within an electronic circuit layout in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying a first pattern that is to be replaced at . In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying information or data relating to the first pattern at .

In some embodiments various processes or modules use at least the information or data relating to the first pattern to ensure the correctness of the design when the first pattern is replaced by the second pattern. In some embodiments the information or data relating to the first pattern comprises for example the connectivity information or data or information concerning DFM or verification of the first pattern that identifies the connections between the components within the first pattern to other components within or outside the first pattern. In various embodiments the information or data relating to the first pattern may be used to ensure or improve the correctness of the design during the pattern capturing process or the pattern fixing process. For example the information or data relating to the first pattern such as the connectivity information may be used to ensure or improve the correctness of the electronic circuit design when various processes or modules determines the replacement pattern to replace the first pattern or matched patterns thereof. As another example the information or data relating to the first pattern such as the connectivity information may also be used to ensure or improve the correctness of the fixing process es by various processes or modules when these processes or modules are moving modifying decomposing replacing or removing various geometries in the layout.

In various embodiments the information or data relating to the first pattern may also be used to ensure or improve the cleanliness of the design layout. For example various processes or modules may be made aware of the information or data relating to the first patter such as the information or data concerning the cleanliness requirements in terms of DFM or DRC such that these processes or modules do not introduce for example new DFM or DRC violations or issues during their manipulation of the layout to perform the processes described herein.

In some embodiments the information or data relating to the first pattern may comprise information or data of various hard or recommended rules constraints etc. In various embodiments a hard rule represents a rule that must be satisfied in the layout and a recommended rule or a soft rule represents a rule that is generally more conservative and may not always be satisfied throughout the entire layout. An exemplary hard rule may state that the minimum spacing between adjacent wires is 100 nm. An exemplary recommended rule may allocate for example an additional 20 nm spacing for a more conservative new minimum spacing between adjacent wires of nm. In some embodiments during the pattern replacement process or during other processes as described in various other embodiments the processes or modules apply the recommended rules over the hard rules. One advantage for this choice of recommended rules over the hard rules is that the first pattern that needs to be replaced or fixed may constitute what is generally known as a hot spot and thus more conservative rules may benefit the design by for example improving the yield or manufacturability of the design due to their more conservative requirements.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of optionally determining one or more decomposition scheme for the first pattern that decomposes the first patter into a plurality of sub patterns that belong to a plurality of layers at . In these embodiments the process or module may determine how to decompose the first pattern into for example two sub patterns and in which layer each of the two sub patterns is to be placed. In some embodiments the process or module determines the decomposition scheme for double patterning.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying one or more don t care areas one or more key areas or one or more space areas for the first pattern at . In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying one or more second patterns that may be used to replace the first pattern at .

In some embodiments where a plurality of second patterns are identified at the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of optionally determining or identifying the scoring ranking or ordering of the plurality of second patterns. In some embodiments the process or system determines or identifies the scoring ranking or ordering of the plurality of second patterns within the context of the first pattern that is to be replaced by one of the plurality of second patterns. In some embodiments the plurality of second patterns may be previously ranked scored or ordered within a plurality of contexts or environments that each of the plurality of second patterns is situated according to for example some statistical analysis processes based at least in part on some actual manufacturing data or test pattern wafer data heuristics simulation results etc. For example a second pattern that is placed near certain surrounding geometries may be associated with a certain rank score or order by examining its effects on yield performance etc. Such a certain rank score or order may then be persisted in a database or other types of data structures for the second pattern while providing a link between the second pattern and the information or data of its respective context or environment. Then the process or module at may retrieve the second pattern with reference to the context that most resembles the context of the first pattern to be replaced and the score rank or order of the second pattern may be referenced by the process or module at .

In some embodiments the process or system at may determine or identify the scoring ranking or ordering of the plurality of second patterns by invoking other processes or modules to analyze at least one of the plurality of second patterns within the context or environment of the first pattern that the second pattern is to replace by performing for example simulation a model based analysis or a rule based analysis to determine the scoring ranking or order of the second pattern. For example the process or module may examine the surrounding geometries of the first pattern and analyze the interaction between these surrounding geometries and a particular second pattern if the particular second pattern is to replace the first pattern by using for example simulation rule based analyses or model based analyses to determine for example the impact of the particular second pattern on yield performance etc. so as to determine the scoring ranking or ordering of the particular second pattern.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of identifying a first set of layers or purposes or a second set of layers or purposes at . In some embodiments the first set of layers or purposes represents the layers or purposes against which a search will be performed to identify patterns that match or does not match the first pattern. In some embodiments the second set of layers or purposes represents the layers or purposes that the first pattern is to be identified.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of searching for one or more patterns in the layout or in the identified layers or purposes of the layout that match or do not match the first pattern at . In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of optionally creating a new window for the interactive matched or unmatched pattern browser to present information or data of the matched or unmatched patterns at . In some embodiments the process or model does not create a new window for the interactive matched or unmatched pattern browser but uses for example the existing layout window for similar purposes. The interactive matched or unmatched pattern browser will be described in more details in subsequent paragraphs with reference to one or more figures.

In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of replacing the first pattern with a second pattern at . In some embodiments the process or system for pattern replacement comprises the act or module of performing one or more post replacement actions at . In some embodiments the process or system at may invoke various modules to check the corresponding portion of the layout for DFM cleanliness DRC cleanliness yield performance optimization etc. after the second pattern has replaced the original first pattern. In some embodiments the process or system at may further examine the post replacement layout portion to determine whether further optimization may be achieved. For example the process or the system at may move or modify geometries in the corresponding portion of the layout near the second pattern to further improve or optimize the layout.

Referring to which illustrates a top level diagram for a process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the act or module of identifying a layout of an electronic circuit design or a portion thereof at . In some embodiments the process or module at may interactively identify the layout or a portion thereof by receiving an input from a user who interactively identifies the layout or a portion thereof from the user interface or graphical user interface. In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the act or module of identifying a first pattern from within the layout or a portion thereof at . In some embodiments the process or module at may interactively identify the first pattern by receiving an input from a user who interactively identifies the first pattern from the user interface or graphical user interface.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the process or module of receiving or identifying one or more fixing processes for the first pattern at . In some embodiments where the user performs the one or more fixing processes through the use of the user interface by either specifying a fixing process or by invoking various modules or processes to perform a fixing process the process or module of receiving or identifying one or more fixing processes at may comprise using one or more macros one or more log records or other similar techniques to record the one or more fixing processes. In some embodiments where at least some of the one or more fixing processes are embedded in or associated hereinafter associated with the first pattern the process or module at may identify such at least some of the one or more fixing processes that are embedded in or associated with the first pattern. In some embodiments the process or system allows the user to manually override a part of the one or more fixing process. In some embodiments the process or system also allows the user to enter his or her script for fixing the first pattern.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the act or module of analyzing the one or more fixing processes within the context or environment hereinafter context of the first pattern at . For example the process or module at may analyze the first pattern in view of its surrounding geometries within a certain radius or distance after the one or more fixing processes are applied to determine the effects of the one or more fixing processes on for example the yield performance manufacturability functionality etc. of the electronic circuit design layout or a portion thereof.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the act or module of optionally presenting the results of the one or more fixing processes to a user via a user interface or a graphical user interface so that the user may view review approve or disapprove one or more of the fixing processes at . In some embodiments the one or more fixing processes are not yet applied to the first pattern at and results presented by the process or module at constitute what the actual or approximate results may appear if the one or more fixing processes are actually applied to the first pattern. It shall be noted that in these embodiments the presented results may be approximate because certain optimization processes may not yet be performed so as to save system resources on multiple candidate fixing processes while only one or some of them may actually be applied to fix the first pattern.

In some embodiments the one or more fixing processes are automatically applied to the first pattern prior to and thus the results presented at constitute the actual results of the one or more fixing processes. In these embodiments the process or system at may also provide the options of undo some or all of the one or more fixing processes redo some or all of the one or more fixing processes etc.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the act or module of identifying patterns that match or do not match the first pattern at . In these embodiments the process or module at may apply the processes or invoke the modules that are described above with reference to to identify such patterns that match or do not match the first pattern. In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the act or module of reproducing the one or more fixing processes to the identified matched or unmatched patterns at . For example the process or system may identify that there exist another 27 occurrences of patterns that match the first pattern identified at . The process or system at may then reproduce the one or more fixing processes which have been applied to the first pattern to these 27 occurrences of patterns that match the first pattern.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively describing fixing processes for an electronic circuit layout comprises the act or module of embedding the one or more fixing processes into or associating the one or more fixing processes with the first pattern at . For example the process or system may provide a reference link between the first pattern and one or more fixing processes such as some fix rules constraints or macros so the fixing processes may be identified for the first pattern if the first pattern is reused in the future. In some embodiments the process or system may also comprise the act or module of performing one or more post replacement actions at as previously described in some of the preceding paragraphs with reference to .

Referring to which illustrates a high level flow diagram of a process or a system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout comprises the integrated fixing module if the integrated fixing module is a separate module from module or the layout editing module if the integrated fixing module is integrated within the layout editing module . Throughout the specification the process or module will be called the integrated fixing module with the reference numeral for simplicity.

The integrated fixing module interacts with various other modules such as the pattern analysis module the action module or the layout editing module and accesses the non transitory computer readable storage medium to read in or write to one or more layouts. The integrated fixing module comprises one or more of an integrated routing module that performs various processes or functions of a router an integrated placement module that performs various processes or functions of a placement tool and an integrated floor planning module that performs some or all of the processes or functions of a placement and route tool together with the processes or functions of floorplanning.

In some embodiments the integrated fixing process or module is configured for performing various processes to fix an electronic circuit design layout. In some embodiments the various processes comprise the act of identifying one or more fixing processes at as described above with reference to . In some embodiments the various processes may directly perform the one or more fixing processes to fix the layout at .

In some embodiments the various processes comprise the act of identifying one or more replacement patterns for a pattern to be replaced at as described above with reference to . In some of these embodiments the various processes may directly replace the pattern with at least one of the one or more replacement patterns.

The various processes may also comprise performing a minimum perturbation fixing process at which comprises the act of identifying a central area of the first pattern to be fixed at in some embodiments. The minimum perturbation fixing process may further comprise the act of moving or modifying one or more edges or geometries within the central area of the first pattern in some embodiments. In some embodiments where there exist no more edges or geometries to move or modify to successfully fix the first pattern the various processes may further comprise re route one or more components or one or more segments of a component. The various processes may also comprise the rip up and re route process to fix the pattern or the layout. In these embodiments the central area of a pattern is identified or determined by determining an area where certain percentage of violations has been previously identified for this particular pattern or other similar patterns by using for example statistical analysis probabilistic analysis simulation or certain rule based or model based approaches. For example if it is determined that 95 of violations occur within a certain distance or a certain radius from the center of a pattern the integrated fixing module may first start by moving or modifying edges or geometries closer to the center within the central area while invoking various processes or modules to examine whether the violations have been fixed by moving or modifying these edges or geometries. The various processes may also comprise using a layout compactor as part of the layout editing module to resolve any DRC violations that are introduced during pattern fixing or pattern replacement.

Referring to which illustrates a high level flow diagram for a process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of identifying a first pattern from within a layout at . In some embodiments the process or module at identifies the first pattern by receiving a user s interactive selection or designation of a pattern in the user interface or graphical user interface.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of identifying or determining or confirming the DFM violation or issue that is caused by the first pattern at . In some embodiments the identification determination or confirmation of such a DFM violation or issue may be performed by using the intrinsic capabilities of the layout editing module such as the simulation verification etc. In some embodiments the identification determination or confirmation of such a DFM violation or issue may be performed by invoking various processes or modules such as a DRC engine a DFM backend engine etc. In some embodiments where the process or module at finds no DFM violations with respect to the first pattern the process or module proceeds to which will be described later in subsequent paragraphs.

In some embodiments where the process or system identifies determines or confirms that the first pattern gives rise to a violation or issue the process or system may further comprise the act or module of invoking the integrated fixing module to perform one or more fixing processes at as described in the preceding paragraphs with reference to . In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of presenting results of the one or more fixing processes in an interactive matched pattern browser for the user to view review approve disapprove undo or redo some or all of the one or more fixing processes at as described in some of the preceding paragraphs with reference to .

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DEM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of analyzing the post fix layout or a portion thereof within the context of the first pattern to which the one or more fixing processes apply at as previously described in some of the preceding paragraphs with reference to .

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of identifying one or more patterns that match or do not match the first pattern at as previously described in some of the preceding paragraphs with reference to . In some embodiments where the first pattern is determined to give rise to some violations or issues in terms of yield performance functionality etc. the process or the system at identifies patterns in the layout or a portion thereof that match the first pattern so the process or the system may fix these matched patterns. In some embodiments where the first pattern is determined not to give rise to any violations or issues the process or system may identify the unmatched patterns which represent patterns that have not been determined to be for example DFM clean or DRC clean. In some embodiments the process or system may identify matched patterns first and then exclude the matched patterns from further consideration by various processes or modules as described in various embodiments herein or by other processes or modules such as certain DFM backend engines in order to conserve system resources on patterns that are known to be good and to more efficiently conclude the design process within a shorter period of time.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of analyzing the unmatched second pattern to determine whether the unmatched pattern may give rise to some violations or issues at by using a process or invoking a module similar to that as described at .

In some embodiments where the unmatched pattern or where the first pattern is determined to give rise to some violations or issues the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of reproducing or applying one or more fixing processes to the second pattern at . In the embodiments where the first pattern is determined to give rise to some violations or issues the process or module at applies the one or more fixing processes to the second matched patterns.

In the embodiments where the first pattern is determined to be good the process or module at may identify fixing processes associated with or embedded in the second unmatched pattern and then perform the associated or embedded fixing processes to the second unmatched pattern. In some embodiments where no fixing process is embedded into or associated with the second unmatched pattern the process or module may invoke various modules such as those described with reference to .

In some embodiments where no fixing process is embedded into or associated with the second unmatched pattern the process or module may invoke various modules such as a simulation engine a model based analytical process or module a rule based analytical process or module an artificial intelligence process or module such as a learning process or a learning module a knowledge base engineering process or module or an expert assessment system to examine the second pattern and its surrounding geometries in order to determine the proper fixing processes for the second unmatched pattern.

In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of presenting results of applying the fixing process es to the second pattern at as described with reference to item numeral above. At the process or the system may further embed the fixing process es into or associate the fixing process es with the second pattern. In some embodiments the process or system for interactively identifying and fixing DFM issues of an electronic circuit design layout using a layout editing module comprises the act or module of performing one or more post replacement actions at as previously described in some of the preceding paragraphs with reference to .

For example the first group of matched pattern that is shown as expanded contains six patterns each of which is further identified by the coordinates of the four corners of the bounding box . In this illustration the four coordinates are arranged according to the order of lower left X lower left Y upper right X and upper right Y. In addition the description field provides a brief description of the violation or issue that the highlighted matched pattern gives rise to. In this illustration the description of the violation or issue states that Line ends from opposite sides causes pinching in center wire . The other five groups of matched patterns are shown to be collapsed.

The integrated matched pattern browser also shows MatchAndFix 6 25 which indicates that there are a total of six groups of patterns and a total of 25 matched patterns. On the left hand pane it can be shown that only the layer M2 is selected which corresponds to the layer that has been search against to identify matched patterns. It shall be noted that the metal 1 layer M1 in the pane is also selectable for various processes or modules to operate on.

It shall be noted that the pattern capture and pattern fixing processes or modules take place completely inside the environment of the layout editing module in this illustrated example. In other words the placement engine the routing engine the floorplanning engine together with the optimize engine are fully integrated within the layout editing module. In some embodiments one may invoke call and initialize the primitives of these existing placement engine the routing engine and the floorplanning engine which are not part of a layout editing module in other commercial EDA suites from within the layout editing engine via various application programming interfaces APIs or application binary interfaces ABIs to summon the complete capabilities of these engines without coding these engines into the layout editing engine in some embodiments. In some other embodiments one may also code these engines into the layout editing tool to achieve the same purpose. It shall also be noted that in these embodiments where the placement routing or floorplanning engineers are integrated within the layout editing module the layout editing module and these engines are seeing and thus operating upon the same layout in the same memory address areas. Therefore the layout editing module needs not pass or transmit information or data relating to the layout to these engines and vice versa.

According to one embodiment of the invention computer system performs specific operations by one or more processors or processor cores executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable usable storage medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software. In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the invention. In the single embodiment or in some embodiments the one or more processors or processor cores may be used to perform various actions such as various actions processes or modules involving determining analyzing performing actions etc. In some embodiments at least one of the one or more processors or processor cores has the multithreading capability.

In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the invention. In the single embodiment or in some embodiments the one or more processors or processor cores may be used to perform various acts such as various acts involving determining analyzing performing actions etc. In some embodiments at least one of the one or more processors or processor cores has the multithreading capability to execute a plurality of threads to perform various tasks as described in the preceding sections.

Various actions as described in the preceding paragraphs may be performed by using one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof . For example various processes or modules involving the determining action various analysis processes or modules etc. may be performed by one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof.

The term computer readable storage medium or computer usable storage medium as used herein refers to any non transitory medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example solid state drives optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable storage media includes for example electromechanical disk drives such as a floppy disk a flexible disk or a hard disk a flash based RAM based such as SRAM DRAM SDRAM DDR MRAM etc. or any other solid state drives SSD a magnetic tape any other magnetic or a magneto optical medium CD ROM any other optical medium punch cards paper tape any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read. For example the various forms of computer readable storage media may be used by the methods or the systems to store either temporarily or permanently information or data such as the matched patterns one or more patterns with embedded or associated fixing processes post fixing layout etc.

In an embodiment of the invention execution of the sequences of instructions to practice the invention is performed by a single computer system . According to other embodiments of the invention two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PTSN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions required to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program e.g. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In an embodiment the computer system operates in conjunction with a data storage system e.g. a data storage system that contains a database that is readily accessible by the computer system . The computer system communicates with the data storage system through a data interface . A data interface which is coupled to the bus transmits and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that include data streams representing various types of signal information e.g. instructions messages and data. In embodiments of the invention the functions of the data interface may be performed by the communication interface .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions. However the ordering of many of the described process actions may be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

