---

title: System for and method for providing a communication system
abstract: A system for and method of establishing a communication link between mobile vehicles is presented. The method may include acquiring first information associated with a first mobile vehicle. The method may also include determining whether to update the first information associated with the first mobile vehicle. The method may further include transmitting, via a transceiver module, the first information associated with the first mobile vehicle based at least in part on the determination of not to update the first information associated with the first mobile vehicle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08874365&OS=08874365&RS=08874365
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08874365
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100721
---
Wireless networks have become increasingly popular for providing network access to a mobile user device to transmit messages. Wireless networks allow connectivity of mobile user devices to networked resources while reducing the need for traditional hard wired network access. As a result wireless networks provide a user with flexibility and convenience. For example wireless networks allow for the mobility of a mobile user device within the coverage range of the wireless networks. However wireless networks may be unavailable due to limited coverage range or network capacity severe weather or power outage. Also wireless networks may be limited by coverage range and or capacity to handle a number of mobile user devices. It may be difficult for mobile user devices to maintain a network connection because the mobile user device may be moving at a fast speed and or in and out of the network coverage. Messages e.g. 911 emergency messages or messages to loved ones transmitted by the mobile user device when the wireless networks are unavailable may not be delivered.

An exemplary embodiment provides a system and a process for establishing a communication link between mobile vehicles via the transmission control protocol TCP or the Internet protocol IP transmission. For example a communication system may be coupled to integrated or otherwise associated with a mobile vehicle e.g. a motorized vehicle . The communication system may determine primary information and secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle. In an exemplary embodiment the primary information may include identification velocity direction and or position associated with the mobile vehicle. In another exemplary embodiment the secondary information may include telemetry information associated with the mobile vehicle which may include brake application emergency vehicle turn signals driving reverse parked lights on component malfunctions and other information associated with the mobile vehicle. The communication system may periodically or continuously update the primary information and the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle. The communication system may periodically or continuously broadcast the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle.

A communication link may be establish between a first communication system associated with a first mobile vehicle and a second communication system associated with a second mobile vehicle. In an exemplary embodiment a first communication system associated with a first mobile vehicle may broadcast primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle to a second communication system associated with a second mobile vehicle. The second communication system associated with the second mobile vehicle may receive the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle and process the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle. For example the second communication system may process the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle to determine whether to establish a communication link with the first communication system associated with the first mobile vehicle. When a communication link is established between the first communication system and the second communication system secondary information associated with the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle may be exchanged. The communication link may terminate when the first communication system associated with the first mobile vehicle moves outside a transmission range of a second communication system associated with the second mobile vehicle and vice versa.

A plurality of communication systems may form a mesh network. Advantageously a first communication system may establish a communication link with a second communication system via one or more intermediate communication systems. In an exemplary embodiment a first communication system may establish a first communication link with a first intermediate communication system. Subsequently the first intermediate communication system may establish a second communication link with a second communication system. In other exemplary embodiments a first communication system may establish and or maintain one or more disparate communication links to a second communication system via a plurality of intermediate communication systems. For example a first communication system may establish a communication link with a second communication system via a first intermediate communication system or a second intermediate communication system.

The communication system may couple the mobile vehicle to a service provider via a network such as a wireless network a wired network and a combination of wireless and wired network. The communication system may broadcast primary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the service provider. Also the communication system may broadcast secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the service provider. The service provider may establish a communication link with the mobile vehicle based at least in part on the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle. In an exemplary embodiment the service provider may establish a communication link with the mobile vehicle based at least in part on a direction of travel of the mobile vehicle. For example the service provider may establish a communication link with a mobile vehicle traveling towards the service provider or terminate a communication link with a mobile vehicle traveling away from the service provider.

The mobile vehicles may establish a communication link with the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system associated with a service provider. For example the communication system may broadcast information associated with the mobile vehicle to the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system . The transmitter receiver system or the satellite system may determine whether to establish a communication link with the mobile vehicle based at least in part on the information associated the mobile vehicle . For example the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system may determine to transfer the mobile vehicle between cellular coverage areas based at least in part on information associated with the mobile vehicle . In another exemplary embodiment the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system may prioritize transmission from the mobile vehicles based at least in part on information associated with the mobile vehicles . For example the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system may establish a communication link with a mobile vehicle traveling towards the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system or terminate a communication link with a mobile vehicle traveling away the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system .

The mobile vehicles may be a transportation device a motorized vehicle a bicycle a car an ambulance a fire engine a bus a truck a van a motorcycle a train a ship an aircraft a spacecraft and other mobile vehicles. The mobile vehicles may also include a petroleum powered vehicle a nuclear powered vehicle a wind powered vehicle an electric powered vehicle a solar powered vehicle a jet powered vehicle and other types of powered vehicles.

The communication network may be a network that enables an Internet protocol IP transmission. The communication network may be a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example the communication network may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku or Band Ka a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal. In addition the communication network may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 wide area network WAN local area network LAN or global network such as the Internet. The communication network may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof.

The communication network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which it is communicatively coupled. The communication network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although the communication network is depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments the communication network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example a service provider network the Internet a broadcaster s network a cable television network corporate networks and home networks.

The transmitter receiver system may be a repeater a microwave antenna a cellular tower or another network access device capable of providing connectivity between two different network mediums. Transmitter receiver system may be capable of sending and receiving signals via a mobile network a paging network a cellular network a satellite network or a radio network. Transmitter receiver system may provide connectivity to one or more wired networks and may be capable of receiving signals on one medium such as a wired network and transmitting the received signals on a second medium such as a wireless network.

The satellite system may include a single satellite or a plurality of satellites. For example satellite system may include astronomical satellites biosatellites communication satellites miniaturized satellites navigational satellites reconnaissance satellites earth observation satellites space stations tether satellites weather satellites anti satellite weapons or other types of satellites that may communicate with the communication system .

The presentation module may provide an interface between the communication system and a user associated with the mobile vehicle . The presentation module may include a user interface e.g. a graphical user interface an application programming interface API to interact with the users associated with the mobile vehicle . The presentation module may also include a display that may present information to the users associated with the mobile vehicle . The presentation module may receive one or more queries or requests from a user and to provide the received queries or requests to other modules of the communication system . The presentation module may provide queries or requests to the processing module wherein the queries or requests may determine an operation of the processing module . In response to receiving a query or request from a user the presentation module may provide the queries or requests e.g. control signals etc. to the transceiver module the processing module the database module the information module the GPS module and the encryption module . In an exemplary embodiment the user may request that the communication system to transmit one or more messages to another communication system associated with another mobile vehicle via an established communication link.

In another exemplary embodiment the presentation module may present information or data to the user via a display. The presentation module may display information or data upon a user s request or the presentation module may automatically display information or data to the user. In an exemplary embodiment the presentation module may provide information or data to indicate whether a first communication system has established a communication link with a second communication system . For example the presentation module may provide information or data to inform the user that a first communication system has established a communication link with a second communication system . In another exemplary embodiment the presentation module may provide information or data to indicate one or more operations performed by the communication system . For example the presentation module may provide a message e.g. CONNECTED to inform the user that the first communication system has established a communication link with a second communication system . The presentation module may display information or data provided by second communication system to a user associated with a first communication system . For example the presentation module may display the identification speed direction position brake information lights information or messages provided by a second communication system . In other exemplary embodiments the presentation module may provide information or data to solicit a response from the user. For example the presentation module may solicit a response e.g. any car accidents from the user to determine a driving route based on traffic conditions.

The presentation module may include manual input e.g. typing into a keyboard or keypad etc. voice input touch screen input graphical input e.g. camera or camcorder and or any other method for inputting information or data. In an exemplary embodiment the presentation module may include manual inputs having one or more keyboards and or key pad for inputting information. In an exemplary embodiment a user associated with the first mobile vehicle may input a message e.g. text graphical or illustrative via the presentation module to be transmitted to a second communication system associated with a second mobile vehicle . The presentation module may provide the message to the database module to be stored. The user associated with the first mobile vehicle may input a voice message or a video message via the presentation module to be transmitted to a second communication system associated with a second mobile vehicle

The transceiver module may include an antenna a transmitter a receiver or a combination of transmitter and receiver. The transceiver module may receive broadcasting signals from other communication systems the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system to establish a communication link. Also the transceiver module may periodically or continuously broadcast signals to other communication systems to establish a communication link. The transceiver module may periodically or continuously broadcast signals to the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system associated with a service provider. The transceiver module may transmit additional signals to or receive additional signals from other communication systems the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system once a communication link is established. The transceiver module may perform various preprocessing functions such as amplifying filtering modulating demodulating mixing tuning and other functions may be needed to preprocess the signal. For example the transceiver module may preprocess e.g. filter sort format and aggregate the signals received from other communication systems the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system . In an exemplary embodiment the preprocessing of the received signals performed by the transceiver module may include filtering the signals and eliminating erroneous or defective signals sorting the signals in accordance with the priority or chronological order converting the signals into desired format e.g. convert analog signals to digital signals converting the signals into the transmission control protocol TCP or the Internet protocol IP . In another exemplary embodiment the preprocessing of the signals to be transmitted by the transceiver module may include formatting the signals for transmission e.g. format the messages according to desired protocols for transmission .

The information module may be a physical interface between the mobile vehicle and the communication system . For example the information module may include a physical port e.g. universal serial bus USB port a physical connection e.g. electrical connector or other types of data connection between the mobile vehicle and the communication system . The information module may acquire information e.g. primary information and secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the information module may acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle may include identification velocity direction position or other information associated with the mobile vehicle . The information module may acquire secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle may include telemetry information which may include brake application emergency vehicle turn signals driving reverse parked lights on component malfunctions and other information associated with the mobile vehicle .

In an exemplary embodiment the information module may periodically acquire or update information associated with the mobile vehicle . In other exemplary embodiment the information module may continuously acquire or update information associated with the mobile vehicle . The information module may be in communication with other modules of the communication system . For example the information module may provide the information associated with the mobile vehicle to the database module and stored. The information module may also provide the information associated with the mobile vehicle to the processing module to be processed. The information module may further provide the information associated with the mobile vehicle to the presentation module to be displayed to users associated with the mobile vehicle . The information module may furthermore provide the information associated with the mobile vehicle to the transceiver module to be transmitted to other communication systems .

The processing module may include one or more processors to control operations performed by the various modules of the communication system . The processing module may be in communication with the presentation module the transceiver module the database module the information module the GPS module and the encryption module . The processing module may further include a plurality of sub analytical processors to enable transmission and reception of signals. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may process the signals received by the transceiver module to establish a communication link. In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may process the information provided by the information module and provide the processed information to the transceiver module to be broadcasted to other communication system the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system .

In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may process signals received by the transceiver module . The processing module may process signals e.g. packetized data via the transmission control protocol TCP or the Internet protocol IP broadcast by other communication systems the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system and received by the transceiver module . The processing module may process the received signal to obtain information associated with other mobile vehicles . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may process the received signal to obtain primary information associated with other mobile vehicles . The processing module may determine an identification a velocity a direction a position or other information associated with other mobile vehicles based at least in part on information received from the second communication system

In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine whether a communication link may be established between a first communication system and the second communication system based at least in part on information associated with the second communication system . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine whether a communication link may be established between a first communication system and the second communication system based at least in part on information associated with the first communication system . For example the processing module may access the information module or the database module to obtain information associated with the first communication system . The processing module may receive information associated with the second communication system from the transceiver module . The processing module may compare the information associated with the first mobile vehicle with the information associated with the second mobile vehicle in order to determine whether a communication link may be established between the first communication system and the second communication system

In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may compare the position of the first mobile vehicle with the position of the second mobile vehicle . For example when the processing module determines that the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle are within a transmission range of each other the processing module may determine to establish a communication link between the first communication system and the second communication system . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may compare a direction of travel for the first mobile vehicle with the direction of travel for the second mobile vehicle . For example when the processing module determines that the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle are travelling in the same direction the processing module may determine to establish a communication link between the first communication system and the second communication system . In other exemplary embodiments the processing module may compare a velocity of the first mobile vehicle with a velocity of the second mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may determine that the velocity of the first mobile vehicle and the velocity of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined range e.g. 5 MPH the processing module may determine to establish a communication link between the first communication system and the second communication system

In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine that a communication link is established between the first communication system and the second communication system secondary information may be transmitted between the first communication system and the second communication system . For example the processing module may access the information module or the database module to acquire secondary information associated with the first communication system . The secondary information associated with the first mobile vehicle may be telemetry information which may include brake application emergency vehicle turn signals driving reverse parked lights on component malfunctions and other information associated with the mobile vehicle . Also when one or more messages may be transmitted the processing module may acquire and transmit the one or more messages via the transceiver module .

In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine that a communication link is established between the first communication system and the second communication system the processing module may process secondary information provided by the second communication system . For example the processing module may process the secondary information provided by the second communication system and display the secondary information provided by the second communication system to users associated with the first communication system . For example the processing module may process the secondary information provided by the second communication system to alert users associated with the first communication system that the second mobile vehicle is slowing down. In another example the processing module may process the secondary information provided by the second communication system to display messages provided by the second communication system to users associated with the first communication system

The processing module may generate and assign a max hop counter to the information or messages transmitted by or received from the transceiver module . For example the max hop counter may be a part of the metadata associated with the information or messages transmitted. The max hop counter may be decremented each time the information or messages are relayed to a communication system . The processing module may assign a predetermine number to the max hop counter to indicate a number of times the information or messages may be relayed. The information or messages may be relayed via one or more communication systems until the max hop counter reaches zero. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may assign a number five to the max hop counter and the max hop counter may be transmitted as part of the metadata associated with the information or messages. The information or messages may be transmitted five times via the plurality of communication systems until the max hop counter reaches zero. In other exemplary embodiments the information or message may be transmitted two three ten fifteen twenty or thirty times via the plurality of communication systems until the max hop counter reaches zero. In another exemplary embodiment the max hop counter may be a factorial counter e.g. factorial of a non negative integer n or product of all positive integers less than or equal to n . For example the processing module may assign a number 3 to the max hop counter and the max hop counter may be transmitted as part of the metadata associated with the information or messages. The information or messages may be transmitted for 6 times e.g. 1 2 3 via a plurality of communication systems until the max hop counter reaches zero.

The processing module may assign a priority level to one or more messages e.g. from highest to lowest E 1 2 3 4 and 5 . The processing module may also determine a priority level of one or more received messages. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may assign a priority level to one or more messages based at least in part on a user or an identification associated with the mobile vehicle . A user associated with the mobile vehicle may create a plurality of messages for transmission via the communication system . The user may assign a priority level associated with each of the plurality of messages and the processing module may assign a priority level to the messages according to the priority level assigned by the user to each of the plurality of messages. For example a user may assign emergency response messages e.g. ambulance fire engine police with the highest priority level e.g. E or an emergency indication traffic alerts with a priority level e.g. 2 information associated with the mobile vehicle with a priority level e.g. 4 . The processing module may also automatically assign a priority level e.g. E or an emergency indication for messages intended for emergency response a priority level e.g. 2 for messages intended for traffic alerts and a priority level e.g. 4 for messages intended for information associated with the mobile vehicle .

The processing module may add or associate metadata or metainformation to the messages received by the transceiver module . For example the metadata or metainformation may include time stamps location velocity direction an emergency indication of the mobile vehicle user identification and information mobile vehicle identification information max hop counter priority level or other information or data associated with the messages. The metadata or metainformation may be transmitted along with the messages.

The processing module may perform a data compression operation in order to reduce an amount of data for transmission and increase the transmission speed. For example the processing module may perform data compression operation using various algorithms including lossless algorithms Lempel Ziv LZ compression algorithms lossy data compression or perceptual coding lossy image compression algorithms lossy audio compression algorithms other types of algorithms for compressed encoding information. The processing module may also perform a data decompression operation upon reception of one or more messages.

The database module may store information associated with the mobile vehicle and manage one or more received messages. The database module may provide an interface e.g. a uniform interface for other modules within the communication system and may write read and search for information associated with mobile vehicle and the messages stored in one or more repositories or databases. The database module may also perform other functions such as but not limited to concurrent access backup and archive functions. Due to limited amount of storing space the database module may compress store transfer or discard information associated with the mobile vehicle and the messages stored within after a period of time e.g. a minute an hour a day. The database module may store information associated with the mobile vehicle . The database module may also provide information associated with the mobile vehicle and one or more messages to the processing module for transmission via the transceiver module . In another exemplary embodiment the database module may store information and messages from another mobile vehicle . For example the transceiver module may receive information and messages from another mobile vehicle . The transceiver module may provide the information or messages from another user device to the database module and store the information or messages.

The database module may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to modules and . The database module may utilize a flash memory a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS or other computer accessible storage.

The GPS module may include one or more processors to determine information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the GPS module may determine the position velocity direction or other information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the GPS module may establish a communication link with the satellite system to determine information associated with the mobile vehicle . The GPS module may calculate the position velocity direction and other information associated with the mobile vehicle based on the communication link with the satellite system . The GPS module may include one or more databases to store position velocity direction and other information determined by the GPS module . The GPS module may also provide the position velocity direction and other information associated with the mobile vehicle determined by the GPS module to the presentation module the transceiver module the processing module the database module the information module and the encryption module .

In another exemplary embodiment the GPS module may interface with the mobile vehicle to determine information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the GPS module may monitor and acquire information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the GPS module may monitor and acquire position information velocity information and direction information associated with the mobile vehicle .

The GPS module may determine and or store position velocity direction and other information associated with the mobile vehicle . The GPS module may map a geographical layout based at least in part on the position velocity direction and other information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example mapping information of the GPS module may be imported and or updated by commercially available mapping sources to visually locate the position information determined by the GPS module on a geographical map. These mapping sources may include Google Maps GoogleEarth MapQuest Yahoo Maps and or other electronic mapping sources. The geographical position determined by the GPS module may be mapped and or stored in the GPS module and or the database module . In addition to storing the information identified above the GPS module may also determine and or record past position velocity direction and other information determined by the GPS module to provide an indication of the geographical regions.

The encryption module may encrypt the information or messages from the transceiver module or the processing module . For example the encryption module may encrypt the information or messages using public encryption key pairs a private encryption key Rijndael encryption Serpent encryption Twofish encryption RC6 encryption MARS encryption or other process or algorithms to encrypt the information or messages transmitted by the transceiver module .

In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may assign metadata e.g. time stamp priority level max hop counter to the messages. For example the processing module may generate a max hop counter associated with the messages to determine a max number of times the messages will be transmitted to other communication systems . For example the processing module may generate a max hop counter having a predetermined counter of 7. The messages will be transmitted 7 times to 7 different communication systems with the max hop counter decremented with each transmission to different communication system . Once the max hop counter associated with the message decremented to zero the messages will not he transmitted to another communication system .

The first communication system associated with a first mobile vehicle may search for a second communication system associated with a second mobile vehicle to relay the messages. For example the transceiver module may transmit primary information to seek one or more proximate communication systems and establish a communication link. In the event that one or more proximate communication systems may establish a communication link with the first communication system . The first communication system may transmit the encrypted primary information and metadata to the one or more proximate communication systems . The one or more proximate communication systems may process the received encrypted primary information and metadata to determine whether a communication link may be established with the first communication system . In the event that the one or more proximate communication system determines that a communication link may be established with the first communication system a communication link may be established between the first communication system and the one or more proximate communication systems .

The first communication system may transmit encrypted secondary information to the one or more proximate communication systems when a communication link is established between the first communication system and the one or more proximate communication systems . The one or more proximate communication systems may process the encrypted secondary information messages and metadata and display the encrypted secondary information. In an exemplary embodiment the proximate communication systems may process the max hop counter associated with the encrypted secondary information. For example the proximate communication systems may decrement the max hop counter associated with the encrypted secondary information. In an exemplary embodiment in the event that the max hop counter is greater than 1 the proximate communication systems may decrement the max hop counter by 1 and transmit the encrypted secondary information and metadata to other communication systems that may establish a communication link with the proximate communication systems . In the event that the max hop counter is equal to 1 the proximate communication systems may decrement the max hop counter by 1 and stop transmitting the encrypted secondary information message and metadata to another communication system .

As illustrated in a first mobile vehicle may be communicatively coupled to a second mobile vehicle via the communication network . The communication network may include a number of nodes to communicatively couple the first mobile vehicle to the second mobile vehicle . The first mobile vehicle may be communicatively coupled to the second mobile vehicle via a plurality of communication paths having various nodes . In an exemplary embodiment the first mobile vehicle may be communicatively coupled to the second mobile vehicle via five communication paths e.g. communication path communication path communication path and communication path via various different nodes . The nodes may relay information or messages from the first mobile vehicle to the second mobile vehicle . The number of nodes within the communication network may vary based at least in part on the location time coverage range battery power and functionality associated with the communication system hosted by the mobile vehicle . Also the number of nodes within the communication network may vary based at least in part selection by one or more users associated with the nodes . For example the one or more users associated with the nodes may select to activate or inactivate the one or more nodes e.g. turn on or off the communication system within the communication network . Further the number of nodes within the communication network may vary based at least in part on the service provider not shown . For example the service provider not shown may activate or inactivate the one or more nodes within the communication network .

The one or more nodes may be an originating node where transmission of data commences a termination node where transmission of data terminates or an intermediate node where transmission of data may traverse. The nodes may be a mobile vehicle hosting a communication system that may be communicatively coupled to other communication systems hosted by other mobile vehicles to communicatively couple the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle . In another exemplary embodiment the nodes may be the transmitter receiver system or the satellite system . In addition the one or more nodes may include a repeater a digipeater a signal carrier system a broadcast translator a cellular repeater an Ethernet huh a multi port repeater a microwave radio relay an L carrier an optical communication repeater a radio repeater and or other devices that are capable of receiving signals and retransmit signals.

Communication links may be a communication channel that may couple two or more nodes . The communication links may be one or more wired communication links or one or more wireless communication links Communication link may be a point to point link a multi point link a point to multi point link or a combination of different types of communication links. In an exemplary embodiment the communication links may transmit packets of data via the transmission control protocol TCP or the Internet protocol IP . For example the one or more wired communication links may include optical fiber multi mode optical fibers single mode optical fibers graded index fibers step index optical fiber or a combination of the different types of optical fiber mentioned before. Further the one or more wired communication links may include telephone line co axial cable and or other wired communication link for transmission of data. The one or more wireless communication links may include cellular links wireless LAN links. Global System for Mobile Communication GSM links Personal Communication Service PCS links Personal Area Network PAN links D AMPS links Wi Fi links Fixed Wireless Data links satellite links IEEE 802.11a links 802.11b links 802.15.1 links 802.11n and 802.11g links and or other wireless link to enable transmission of data.

At block a communication system may acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may provide executable commands to other modules of the communication system to acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may provide an acquire information command to the information module to acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may provide an acquire information command to the GPS module to acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle may include position velocity direction identification and other information of the mobile vehicle . In an alternative exemplary embodiment the information module or the GPS module may automatically acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The information module or the GPS module may provide the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the processing module or the database module . After acquiring primary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may determine whether to update the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may process the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle to determine whether to update the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine a time stamp of the acquisition of the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine to update the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle when a predetermined amount of time has lapsed from the time of the acquisition of the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine not to update the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle when the time lapsed from the time of the acquisition of the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle is less than a predetermined amount of time. For example the processing module may determine that the predetermined amount of time to be 3 seconds.

In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the database module the information module or the GPS module to determine whether updated primary information are available. For example the processing module may periodically access the database module the information module or the GPS module to check whether updated primary information are acquired. In other exemplary embodiments the processing module may instruct the information module to acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The processing module may compare the newly acquired primary information with previously acquired primary information to determine whether to update the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In the event that the processing module determines that the primary information have to be updated the method may return to block to acquire primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In the event that the processing module determines that the primary information do not have to be updated the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may transmit the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may provide the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the transceiver module to be transmitted via the transmission control protocol TCP or the Internet protocol IP . In another exemplary embodiment the information module may directly provide the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the transceiver module to be transmitted. In other exemplary embodiment the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be encrypted by the encryption module before being transmitted by the transceiver module . The presentation module may provide confirmation to the user of the mobile vehicle that the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be transmitted.

The processing module may assign a priority level to the primary information e.g. from highest to lowest E 1 2 3 4 and 5 . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may assign a priority level to the primary information based at least in part on an identification of the mobile vehicle . For example the mobile vehicle may be an emergency response vehicle e.g. ambulance fire engine or police the processing module may assign the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle with the highest priority level e.g. E or an emergency indication . The processing module may add or associate the priority level to the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle as metadata or metainformation to the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the metadata or metainformation may include time stamps location velocity direction and other information of the mobile vehicle user identification and information mobile vehicle identification information max hop counter priority level or other information or data associated with the messages. In an exemplary embodiment after transmitting the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may return to block and repeat the method of establishing a communication link between mobile vehicles and return to block . In another exemplary embodiment after transmitting the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may store the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be stored in the database module . For example the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be stored in the database module after transmission of the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In another exemplary embodiment the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be stored in the mobile vehicle for a predetermined period of time. After storing the primary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may receive primary information associated with a mobile vehicle . For example a first communication system associated with a first mobile vehicle may receive primary information associated with a second mobile vehicle transmitted by a second communication system associated with the second mobile vehicle . For example the transceiver mobile of the first communication system may receive the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . For example the transceiver module may preprocess the received primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the transceiver module may receive packets of primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle via the transmission control protocol TCP or the Internet protocol IP . The transceiver module may format the received primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle for later processing. In other exemplary embodiments the transceiver module may provide the received primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle to other modules of the first communication system . After receiving primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the first communication system may determine whether a communication link may be established. For example the processing module may process the received primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle provided by the transceiver module . The processing module may extract the received primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may extract the primary information to determine the position velocity direction identification or other information associated with the second mobile vehicle . Simultaneously or subsequent to extract the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle the processing module may also obtain primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may access the database module the information module or the GPS module to obtain the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine the position velocity direction identification or other information associated with the first mobile vehicle from the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle

The processing module may compare and contrast the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle with the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may compare the position of the first mobile vehicle with the position of the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine whether the position of the first mobile vehicle and the position of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined transmission range e.g. 0.25 miles to 0.5 miles . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may compare the velocity of the first mobile vehicle with the velocity of the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine whether the velocity of the first mobile vehicle and the velocity of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined range e.g. 5 mph to 10 mph . In an alternative embodiment the processing module may compare a direction of travel of the first mobile vehicle with the direction of travel of the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine whether the direction of travel of the first mobile vehicle and the direction of travel of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined range e.g. 5 degree to 10 degree .

The processing module may determine whether a communication link may be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle based at least in part on a comparison of the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle with the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may determine whether a communication link may be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle based at least in part on the position velocity direction identification and other information associated with the mobile vehicles . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine that a communication link may be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle based at least in part on a determination that the position of the first mobile vehicle and the position of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined range e.g. 0.25 miles to 0.5 miles . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine that a communication link may be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle based at least in part on a determination that the velocity of the first mobile vehicle and the velocity of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined range e.g. 5 mph to 10 mph . In other exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine that a communication link may be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle based at least in part on a determination that the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle are travelling in a similar direction e.g. 5 degrees to 10 degrees .

In the event that the processing module determines that a communication link may not be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block . At block the communication system may determine whether the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may include an emergency indication. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may process the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle to determine whether the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may include an emergency indication. The emergency indication included in the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may indicate an identification of the second mobile vehicle and a priority level of the primary information. In an exemplary embodiment the emergency indication may identify that the second mobile vehicle is an emergency response vehicle e.g. ambulance fire engine or police . In another exemplary embodiment the emergency indication may indicate that the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may include emergency response messages with the highest priority level e.g. E .

In the event that the processing module may determine the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may include an emergency indication. The processing module may determine that the second mobile vehicle may be an emergency response vehicle. The processing module may determine the position velocity direction and an identification of the emergency response vehicle based at least in part on the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may present the position velocity direction and an identification of the emergency response vehicle to the user of the first mobile vehicle via the presentation module .

In the event that the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may include an emergency indication the method may proceed to block . At block the communication system may transmit the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may provide the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle including an emergency indication to the database module and stored. The database module may combine the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle including an emergency indication with the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle to be transmitted by the transceiver module . The processing module may instruct the database module to provide the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle including an emergency indication with the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle to the encryption module and the transceiver module to be transmitted to other mobile vehicles . After transmitting the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block . Also in the event that the primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle do not include an emergency flag the method may proceed to block .

As discussed above in the event that the processing module determines that a communication link may be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block . At block the first communication system of the first mobile vehicle and the second communication system of the second mobile vehicle may establish a communication link. For example the transceiver module of the first communication system and the transceiver module of the second communication system may establish a communication link. The transceiver module of the first communication system may transmit and receive information from the transceiver module of the second communication system . After establishing a communication link between the first communication system of the first mobile vehicle and the second communication system of the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the first communication system may receive information from the second mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the transceiver module of the first communication system may receive information from the transceiver module of the second communication system . For example the transceiver module of the first communication system may receive primary information and secondary information associated with the second mobile vehicle from the transceiver module of the second communication system . In an exemplary embodiment the transceiver module may continuously or periodically receive updated primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . In another exemplary embodiment the transceiver module may continuously or periodically receive secondary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . The secondary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may be telemetry information which may include brake application emergency vehicle turn signals driving reverse parked lights on component malfunctions and other information associated with the second mobile vehicle

The secondary information associated with the second mobile vehicle may also include messages provided by the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may process the messages provided by the second mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may identify a max hop counter associated with the messages provided by the second mobile vehicle . The max hop counter may indicate a number of times the messages may be relayed. The processing module may determine whether to relay the messages to other mobile vehicles based at least in part on the max hop counter. In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may examine the max hop counter that may be transmitted as part of the metadata associated with the messages. The processing module may determine whether the max hop counter reached zero. In the event that the processing module determines that the max hop counter equals one the processing module may decrement the max hop counter by one and not to relay the message to other mobile vehicles . In the event that the processing module determines that the max hop counter is great than one the processing module may decrement the max hop counter by 1 and relay the message to other mobile vehicles .

The processing module may generate requests for information. In an exemplary embodiment a user associated with the first mobile vehicle may input requests for information via the presentation module . The presentation module may provide the request to the processing module to be processed and transmitted to the second mobile vehicle via the transceiver module . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may generate requests for information based at least in part on received information from the second mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may generate requests for updated information from the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may provide the requests to the encryption module and the transceiver module to be transmitted to the second mobile vehicle . In response to receiving the request provided by the first mobile vehicle the second mobile vehicle may provide the requested information. In another exemplary embodiment the first mobile vehicle may provide information to the second mobile vehicle . After receiving information from the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may store information associated with the second mobile vehicle . For example the database module may store the information received from the second mobile vehicle . The database module may store primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle and the secondary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . The database module may compress store transfer or discard information associated with the second mobile vehicle and the messages stored within after a period of time e.g. a minute an hour a day. After storing the information associated with the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may determine whether a communication link may be maintained with the second mobile vehicle . For example after establishing a communication link with the second mobile vehicle the transceiver module may continuously or periodically receive updated primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . The transceiver module may provide the updated primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle to the processing module . The processing module may extract the updated primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may extract the updated primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle to determine the position velocity direction identification or other information associated with the second mobile vehicle . Simultaneously or subsequent to extract the updated primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle the processing module may also obtain updated primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may access the database module the information module or the GPS module to obtain the updated primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine the position velocity direction identification or other information associated with the first mobile vehicle from the primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle

The processing module may compare and contrast the updated primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle with the updated primary information associated with the second mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may compare the updated position of the first mobile vehicle with the updated position of the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine whether the updated position of the first mobile vehicle and the updated position of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined transmission range e.g. 0.25 miles to 0.5 miles . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may compare the updated velocity of the first mobile vehicle with the updated velocity of the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine whether the updated velocity of the first mobile vehicle and the updated velocity of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined range e.g. 5 mph to 10 mph . In an alternative embodiment the processing module may compare the updated direction of travel of the first mobile vehicle with the updated direction of travel of the second mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine whether the updated direction of travel of the first mobile vehicle and the updated direction of travel of the second mobile vehicle are within a predetermined range e.g. 5 degree to 10 degree .

In the event that the processing module may determine that a communication link may be maintained with the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed back to block and the transceiver module may continue to transmit information to and receive information from the second mobile vehicle . In the event that the processing module may determine that a communication link may not be maintained with the second mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the second communication system may receive request for information. For example the transceiver module may receive a confirmation that a communication link may be established between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle . Information may be transferred between the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle via the communication link. The first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle may receive request for information from each other. The request for information may include request for primary information associated with the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle and secondary information associated with the first mobile vehicle and the second mobile vehicle . The transceiver module may receive the request for information and provide the request for information to the processing module the database module the information module or the GPS module . After receiving request for information the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may acquire secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may provide executable commands to other modules of the communication system to acquire primary information and secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may provide an acquire executable command to the information module to acquire secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may provide an acquire command to the database module to acquire secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be telemetry information which may include brake application emergency vehicle turn signals driving reverse parked lights on component malfunctions and other information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an alternative exemplary embodiment the information module may automatically acquire secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The information module may provide the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the database module and stored. The information module or the database module may provide the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the processing module . After acquiring secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may determine whether to update the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may process the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle to determine whether to update the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may determine a time stamp of the acquisition of the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine to update the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle when a predetermined amount of time has lapsed from the time stamp of the acquisition of the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The processing module may determine not to update the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle when a predetermined amount of time has not lapsed from the time of the acquisition of the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . For example the processing module may determine the predetermined amount of time to be 3 seconds.

In another exemplary embodiment the processing module may access the database module or the information module to determine whether new secondary information are available. For example the processing module may periodically access the database module or the information module to check whether new secondary information are acquired. In other exemplary embodiments the processing module may instruct the information module to acquire secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . The processing module may compare the newly acquired secondary information with previously acquired secondary information to determine whether to update the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In the event that the processing module determines that the secondary information need to be updated the method may return to block . In the event that the processing module determines that the secondary information do not need to be updated the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may transmit the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the processing module may provide the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the transceiver module to be transmitted. In another exemplary embodiment the information module may directly provide the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle to the transceiver module to be transmitted. In other exemplary embodiment the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be encrypted by the encryption module before being transmitted by the transceiver module . The presentation module may provide confirmation to the user of the mobile vehicle that the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be transmitted. In an exemplary embodiment after transmitting the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may return to block and repeat the method of establishing a communication link between mobile vehicles. In another exemplary embodiment after transmitting the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

At block the communication system may store the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In an exemplary embodiment the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be stored in the database module . For example the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be stored in the database module after transmission of the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle . In another exemplary embodiment the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle may be stored in the mobile vehicle for a predetermined period of time. After storing the secondary information associated with the mobile vehicle the method may proceed to block .

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

