---

title: Physical-layer system prioritization and communication session management within a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments are directed to selecting a physical layer for an access terminal's (AT's) participation in a communication session. In an embodiment, the AT can register its priorities for multiple physical-layer systems as well as contact information by which an application server can contact the AT over each system. The AT selectively updates the system prioritization and/or contact information. When the AT joins or initiates a communication session, the application server supports the AT on a highest-priority system through which the AT can be contacted. The system supporting the AT's session can change upon request by the AT, the initiative of the application server and/or a detected triggering event. In a further embodiment, multiple systems can be used concurrently to support the AT's session, such that the AT can send and/or receive signaling and/or media for at least a portion of the communication session over the multiple systems concurrently.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09100815&OS=09100815&RS=09100815
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09100815
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100125
---
Embodiments of the invention are directed to physical layer system prioritization and communication session management within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Embodiments are directed to selecting a physical layer for an access terminal s AT s participation in a communication session within a wireless communications system. In an embodiment the AT can register its priorities for multiple physical layer systems as well as contact information by which an application server can contact the AT over each system. The AT selectively updates the system prioritization and or contact information. When the AT joins or initiates a communication session the application server supports the AT on a highest priority system through which the AT can be contacted. The system supporting the AT s session can change upon request by the AT or based the initiative of the application server. In a further embodiment multiple systems can be used concurrently to support the AT s session such that the AT can send and or receive signaling and or media for at least a portion of the communication session over the multiple systems concurrently.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

As discussed above access terminals can participate in server arbitrated communication sessions with other access terminals via a number of potential systems e.g. EV DO 1x WiFi LTE etc. . In other words different mechanisms or systems can link a given access terminal to the application server over different physical layers for facilitating the exchange of signaling and or media related to the communication session. For each system the given access terminal can have an interface with an associated interface address or contact information. As will be appreciated interfaces to wireless systems include one or more antennas e.g. such as antenna as illustrated in whereas interfaces to wired systems can include ports or docks to which wires are connected. For example the interface of the given access terminal for a WiFi connection may correspond to hardware and or software modules at the given access terminal configured to receive and or transmit WiFi information and the WiFi interface has its own Internet Protocol IP address. In the case of WiFi for example it will be appreciated that the RAN corresponds to an Access Point AP through which the access terminal can connected to the Internet. Thus incoming packets addressed to the WiFi interface s IP address are handled by the WiFi interface of the given access terminal incoming packets addressed to the EV DO s IP address are handled by an EV DO interface and so on. Likewise outgoing packets from the given access terminal sent over the WiFi system include a source address equal to the access terminal s WiFi interface IP address outgoing packets from the given access terminal sent over the EV DO system include a source address equal to the access terminal s EV DO interface IP address and so on.

Conventionally most access terminals exchange signaling and or media with the application server over one particular system at any given time and the application server is only aware of one system by which to contact each access terminal. Accordingly if performance on a system used to support a particular access terminal degrades during the communication session the access terminal is likely to be dropped from the session. The access terminal can at this point attempt to set up its connection to the application server on a different system but this can take a relatively long time and can lead to a long outage period during which the access terminal cannot participate in the communication session.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to registering multiple systems with the application server each system having a system interface associated with a different physical layer such that the application server can handoff an access terminal to a different system if performance degrades on the access terminal s current system.

Referring to at some point after the given AT powers up the given AT registers with systems . . . N where N 2 and whereby each of systems . . . N is associated with a different type of physical layer A. For example systems . . . N can include an EV DO system a WiFi system a 1x system etc. and or any other system through which the given AT can contact the application server . Further in addition to obtaining the system registration in A the given AT also obtains contact information e.g. an IP address etc. for system interfaces . . . N each corresponding to one of systems . . . N. Thus system interface corresponds to system system interface corresponds to system and so on. The contact information permits data sent over a given system interface of the given AT to be recognized by the corresponding system at the RAN and permits the corresponding system at the RAN to send data to the appropriate system interface at the given AT.

After registering with each of systems . . . N in A the given AT determines a prioritization of systems . . . N for its communication sessions that are to be arbitrated by the application server A. In an example the given AT can store the system prioritization determined A along with the system interface contact information obtained in A in an internal record maintained thereon.

The prioritization of the systems in A can be based on a number of different parameters either alone or in combination. For example performance parameters such as bandwidth latency and or Quality of Service QoS can be considered. In another example the parameters can include cost. In another example the parameters can include the location and or environment of the given AT. For example a WiFi system that offers unlimited data transfer high bandwidth and low latency may be prioritized over an EV DO system and or a 1x system so long as the connection to the WiFi system is sufficiently strong. In a further example if the given AT is aware of a defined location region of a particular WiFi system the prioritization of A may prioritize the WiFi system over the EV DO system and or 1x system when inside the defined location and be prioritize the EV DO system and or 1x system over the WiFi system when inside of the EV DO system. Methodologies related to restricting communications in accordance with a defined location region are described in more detail within co pending U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 163 834 entitled REGULATING THE SCOPE OF SERVICE GEOGRAPHICALLY IN WIRELESS NETWORKS filed on Mar. 26 2009 assigned to the same assignee of the subject application and hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

After prioritizing systems . . . N in A the given AT sends a registration message over the system determined to have the highest priority to the application server A. The registration message indicates the determined system prioritization from A and also indicates the associated contact information for each corresponding system interface of the given AT obtained in A. The application server receives the registration message and updates a record for the given AT indicative of the given AT s preferred system prioritization and associated system interface contact information A. While not shown in in another embodiment the registration message may include a list of systems and associated system interface contact information without indicating actual system priorities. In this case the application server itself may rank the listed systems to determine the respective system priorities for the given AT.

Periodically and or in response to a triggering event the given AT determines whether to update the system prioritization and or the associated system interface contact information with the application server A. For example the given AT can determine to update the system prioritization and or the associated system interface contact information if i performance on one or more of the systems improves or degrades ii if a cost on one or more of the systems increases or decreases e.g. which can be based on a current location of the given AT iii if the contact information for one or more of the system interfaces changes iv if the given AT has been de registered from one or more of the systems v if the given AT has registered to one or more new systems vi if the given AT has entered or exited a defined location region vii and or any combination thereof.

If the given AT determines not to update the system prioritization or the associated system interface contact information with the application server in A the given AT does not update its registration information with the application server . Alternatively if the given AT determines to update the system prioritization and or the associated system interface contact information with the application server in A the given AT updates its internal record indicative of the given AT s preferred system prioritization and associated system interface contact information and then sends a supplemental registration message over the system having the highest priority to the application server A after which the process returns to A where the given AT waits for a next update to the system prioritization and or system interface contact information.

Similar to A the supplemental registration message sent in A indicates the updated system prioritization e.g. although if only the contact information has changed the system prioritization in the supplemental registration message is un changed and updated system interface contact information e.g. although if only the system prioritization has changed the contact information in the supplemental registration message is un changed . The application server receives the supplemental registration message and updates the record for the given AT indicative of the given AT s preferred system prioritization and associated system interface contact information A.

After registering with each of systems A B and C the given AT determines a prioritization of systems A B and C for its communication sessions that are to be arbitrated by the application server B. In an example the given AT can store the system prioritization determined B along with the system interface contact information for systems A B and C in an internal record. The prioritization of B is described above with respect to A of and will not be described again here for the sake of brevity.

In the example of assume that the given AT allocates the highest priority to system A the next highest priority or second highest priority to system B and the next highest priority e.g. the third highest or lowest priority in the example with three 3 systems to system C in B. Under this assumption after prioritizing systems A B and C the given AT sends a registration message over system A configured as A IP B IP C IP to indicate the system prioritization and associated system interface contact information to the application server B.

At some later point in time assume that the given AT determines that conditions are present that indicate system B should now have a higher priority than system A B. For example if system B is an EV DO system a pilot signal on system B may have a signal strength that has risen above a threshold etc. Alternatively conditions on system A may have deteriorated such that system B becomes the best available system based on some performance metric. Accordingly under this assumption after updating its internal record indicative of the given AT s system prioritization the given AT sends a supplemental registration message over system B configured as B IP A IP C IP to indicate the updated system prioritization and associated system interface contact information to the application server B.

At some later point in time assume that the given AT determines that the given AT obtains a new IP address IP of system interface C for communications over system C B. Accordingly under this assumption after updating its internal record indicative of the given AT s system interface contact information the given AT sends a supplemental registration message over system B configured as B IP A IP C IP to indicate the system prioritization and the updated system interface contact information to the application server B.

At some later point in time assume that the given AT de registers from system B completely such that the given AT has no IP address for system interface B and cannot communicate over system B B. Accordingly under this assumption after updating its internal record indicative of the given AT s system prioritization i.e. by removing system B entirely the given AT sends a supplemental registration message over system A configured as A IP C IP to indicate the updated system prioritization and associated system interface contact information to the application server B.

As will be appreciated the processes of and or can be performed at any time the given AT is powered on and is not actively engaged in a communication session with the application server . Processes by which a server arbitrated communication session can be set up after an execution of the processes of and or B will now be described with respect to .

Referring to assume that the process of at each of ATs . . . M has already been executing such that the application server is aware of the current system prioritizations and system interface contact information for ATs . . . M. In A a given AT AT among ATs . . . M determines to initiate a communication session arbitrated by the application server and thereby sends one or more call request messages over AT s highest priority system to the application server to request a communication session to ATs . . . M e.g. where M 2 for a group session and M 2 for a one to one session .

In A AT determines whether the communication session can be supported on the current system. For example each call request message sent in A is associated with a given timeout period such that if the given timeout period elapses and no ACK to the call request message is received back at AT AT will assume that its call request message has not bent transferred to the application server successfully. After a threshold number e.g. one two etc. of failed call attempts i.e. which can be inferred when no ACK to the call request message is received at AT AT will infer that its call cannot be supported by the current system. Otherwise if an ACK is received as shown at A in response to a call request message sent over a given system AT will assume that its communication session can be supported on that system.

If AT determines that the communication session cannot be supported on the current system in A the process returns to A and repeats for the system having the next highest level of priority. Otherwise if an ACK to one of the call request messages is received in A AT determines that the communication session can be supported on the current system in A and the process advances to A.

In A AT updates the record storing its system prioritization and or system interface contact information if necessary. For example if the iterative process of A through A resulted in the second highest priority system being ACKed then the second highest priority system can be transitioned to the highest priority system with the highest priority system being demoted to a lower priority in the system prioritization. In another example if the iterative process of A through A resulted in the highest priority system being ACKed then the record need not be updated. Similarly in A the application server also updates its record for AT s system prioritization if necessary based upon which system the application server successfully received the call request message.

The application server evaluates the call request message and identifies the associated call target s i.e. ATs . . . M and loads the system prioritization and system interface contact information for each of the associated call target s A. Accordingly in A the application server sends an announce message to each of ATs . . . M over the highest priority systems for each of ATs . . . M. In A similar to A the application server determines whether each announce message has been ACKed within a given timeout period. If not the process returns to A and repeats on a next highest priority system for the non responsive AT s . Otherwise if an ACK is received from ATs . . . M as shown in A the process advances to A.

In A ATs among ATs . . . M that were not reached on their highest priority system update their system prioritization and the application server likewise updates its system prioritization record for any ATs that were not responsive on their highest priority in A. For example A and A may at least replace the old highest priority system with the system upon which the announce message was ACKed in A. After at least one of ATs . . . M acknowledge and accept the announced communication session in A the application server begins arbitrating the communication session by exchanging media between the call originator AT and the call targets ATs . . . M A. As will be appreciated the media is exchanged in A over the system upon which the call request message was ACKed in A for AT and the system upon which the announce message was ACKed in A for ATs . . . M.

At some point in time after the registrations of B through B AT attempts to send a call request message over system A to the application server B but AT determines that no ACK is received to its call request message B. As will be appreciated AT may attempt one or more re transmissions on system A but at some point AT will transition its call request attempts to system B as its second highest priority system. Accordingly AT next attempts to send the call request message over system B to the application server B the application server ACKs the call request message on system B B and AT determines its call request message on system B is ACKed B. Accordingly both AT and the application server update their records to at least transition system B to the highest priority system and demote system A to a lower priority for AT B and B.

In B the application server identifies AT as a call target and loads the system prioritization and system interface contact information from its records as stored at B. The application server sends an announce message over system C at IP address IP to AT B and the application server determines that AT does not ACK within the timeout period B. Accordingly the application server next sends an announce message over system B at IP address IP to AT B and the application server determines that AT ACKs within the timeout period B and B. Accordingly both AT and the application server update their records to at least transition system B to the highest priority system and demote system C to a lower priority for AT B and B. The application server begins arbitrating the communication session by exchanging media between the call originator AT and the call target AT over system B at IP addresses IP and IP respectively B.

During the communication session the application server periodically sends a signaling message to each active session participant i.e. ATs . . . M on their respective highest priority systems A. In other words the application server does not typically receive ACKs to the actual media sent to target ATs in A and as such the application server does not know whether one or more ATs have dropped out of the call e.g. because the system the application server is currently supporting the AT s on has degraded etc. . The periodic signaling message which is configured to prompt an ACK thereby functions to inform the application server with regard to whether the current systems carrying the media flow to the active session participants remains a valid manner of contacting the ATs.

Accordingly each of ATs . . . M that receives the periodic signaling message from the application server sends an ACK on their currently supported system A. In A the application server determines whether each active session participant has ACKed the periodic signaling message. If the application server determines that each active session participant has ACKed the periodic signaling message the process returns to A and the session continues until the next periodic signaling message is sent. Otherwise if the application server determines that each active session participant has not ACKed the periodic signaling message the application server sends a supplemental signaling message to each active session participant that did not send an ACK in A A. The supplemental signaling message sent in A is sent in the next highest priority level system for each non responsive AT. Thus the second highest level priority system is the next highest level priority system for the highest level priority system the third highest level priority system is the next highest level priority system for the second highest level priority system and so on. Also the supplemental signaling message sent in A need not be periodic in the sense that the message from A is periodic. Rather the supplemental signaling message sent in A can be sent as soon as possible after the application server determines a higher priority system has not ACKed the previous supplemental or periodic signaling message.

Accordingly each of ATs . . . M that receives the supplemental signaling message from the application server sends an ACK on the system upon which the supplemental signaling message is received A. In A the application server determines whether the non responsive AT s targeted for the supplemental signaling message have ACKed the supplemental signaling message. If the application server determines that each AT to which the supplemental signaling message of A is sent has not ACKed the supplemental signaling message in A the process returns to A and repeats for each AT that remains non responsive and another supplemental signaling message is sent on each of the remaining ATs next highest priority system s . Accordingly A through A is an iterative process that repeats until an ACK is received or each system for any non responsive ATs has been pinged.

Otherwise if the application server determines that each AT to which the supplemental signaling message of A is sent has ACKed the supplemental signaling message in A the application server updates its system prioritization for the ATs that did not ACK on their highest priority system such that the ACKed system is transitioned to the new highest priority system A. Likewise ATs that receive a supplemental signaling message on a system other than their highest priority system will transition the other system to their new highest priority system A.

In B the application server sends a periodic signaling message e.g. an Are You There AYT message an ICMP echo request message etc. to the call originator AT on system B at IP address IP and AT on system B at IP address IP. AT and AT both ACK the periodic signaling message e.g. by sending I Am Here IAH messages by sending ICMP echo response messages etc. B and B. At some later point in time the application server sends another periodic signaling message to the call originator AT on system B at IP address IP and AT on system B at IP address IP B. This time only AT ACKs the periodic signaling message B.

After a timeout period the application server determines that AT has not ACKed the periodic signaling message from B B. Accordingly the application server attempts to ping AT on AT s next highest priority system i.e. system A by sending a supplemental signaling message to AT on system A at IP address IP B. AT ACKs the supplemental signaling message on system A B and both AT and the application server update their system prioritizations such that the priority of system A is increased while the priority of system B is demoted B and B. Thereafter the application server arbitrates the communication session by exchanging media between the call originator AT on system B at IP address IP and AT on system A at IP address IP B.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art illustrate embodiments by which the application server determines one or more ATs to be non responsive on a currently supported system and in response to this determination the application server attempts to ping the non responsive AT s on lower priority systems iteratively until the AT s acknowledge the ping i.e. supplemental signaling message . In alternative embodiments the session participants may trigger a system switch on their own initiative as will be described below with respect to .

During the communication session each of ATs . . . M monitor systems . . . N with system interfaces . . . N respectively A. For example the monitoring of A may include decoding the media stream of the communication session carried on one of systems . . . N while tracking one or more performance parameters e.g. pilot signal strength etc. associated with the other systems of systems . . . N. Based on the system monitoring of A each of ATs . . . M determines whether to change the system supporting its current session in A. For example if a given AT among ATs . . . M determines that the pilot signal strength of a different system is stronger than the current system supporting the communication session in A the given AT may determine to switch to the different system. In another example if a given AT among ATs . . . M is moving and the monitoring of A determines that the given AT has entered a location where the current system supporting the communication session is either unavailable or more expensive than another available system the given AT may determine to switch to the other available system. In a further example the determination of A may correspond to a repeating of the determination of A discussed above with respect to except that the determination of A occurs when the given AT is already engaged in an active communication session based on more up to date information.

If ATs . . . M determine not to change systems in A the process returns to A and ATs . . . M continue to monitor the communication session on the same system while also tracking the performance expectation on other systems. Otherwise if one or more of ATs . . . M determine to change systems in A the one or more ATs send a system change request to the application server that requests the application server to support the communication session on a different system for the one or more ATs A. The application server receives the system change request s and changes the system upon which the communication session is supported for the one or more ATs A. While not shown in the one or more ATs and the application server may also update the system prioritizations for the one or more ATs such that the system requested by the system change request in A is set as the new highest priority system.

During the monitoring of B assume that AT determines that one or more monitored performance parameters rise above a threshold level B. For example if the one or more monitored performance parameters include a pilot signal strength level then system A s pilot signal strength level may rise above the connection strength that is obtained on system B and or some other signal threshold strength level e.g. which can be set higher than system B s strength to avoid quick transitions between systems in a boundary area . Based on the determination from B AT determines to transition its communication session from system B to system A. Accordingly AT sends a system change request e.g. a For Your Information FYI IP Update IP message an ARP Announcement message in an Internet domain etc. to the application server to request the system transition from system B on IP address IP to system A at IP address IP B. The application server receives the request and thereafter supports AT on the requested system B.

Referring to C through C correspond to B through B of respectively and as such will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. Based on the determination from C AT determines to transition its communication session from system B to system A. Next instead of an explicit request to transition to system A at IP address IP as in B e.g. via an FYI Update IP message an ARP Announcement message in an Internet domain etc. AT sends a supplemental registration message over system A configured as A IP B IP C IP to indicate the updated system prioritization and associated system interface contact information to the application server . Thus the supplemental registration message results in the system prioritizations maintained at AT and the application server to be updated B and B and the application server thereafter supports AT on the requested system B. Thus while both result in the application server switching AT s session support to a different system further modifies the system prioritization such that subsequent contact attempts of AT will also prioritize system A over system B.

Above described embodiments of the invention have generally been directed to implementations whereby at any given time during a communication session each AT is connected to the application server over a single system among the available systems . . . N. However to further improve reliability of the communication session the communication session can at least temporarily support the communication session on one or more of ATs . . . M on multiple systems as will be described below with respect to .

Referring to the application server determines whether to support the communication session for a given AT on multiple systems A e.g. on each system that the given AT can be contacted upon on more than one and less than all systems in the given AT s system prioritization etc. . As noted in the preceding paragraph reasons as to why the application server may support the given AT on multiple systems include increasing reliability during session set up reducing an occurrence of dropped calls when handing off the given AT from one system to another system and or providing multiple system support to the given AT throughout the whole session if sufficient resources are available. Further the evaluation of A may be performed periodically or can be triggered by a triggering event e.g. a request from the given AT to switch systems a request from the given AT to provide multiple system support a determination by the application server itself to switch systems and or provide multi system support etc. .

If the application server determines not to support the communication session for a given AT on multiple systems in A the application server advances to A and provides support for the given AT on a single system. Otherwise if the application server determines to support the communication session for a given AT on multiple systems in A the application server modifies its arbitration of the communication session such that the given AT and the application server communicate over two or more systems A. For example in A the application server can send the same media to the given AT redundantly over two different systems to increase the given AT s success rate in decoding the media flow. In another example the application server can send different media to the given AT over the different systems to increase the level of bandwidth between the application server and the given AT. Likewise if the given AT is a floor holder for a half duplex call or a participant in the full duplex session the given AT can likewise send media on the reverse link to the application server over the different systems in A either redundantly or with different media to increase reverse link bandwidth. Accordingly the given AT monitors each of the multiple systems carrying the media flow in A.

In A the application server determines whether to end multiple system support for the given AT. For example the application server can start a timer when multiple system support is allocated to the given AT in A and can determine to terminate the multiple system support when the timer exceeds a given expiration threshold. If the application server determines not to terminate multiple system support for the given AT the process returns to A and the session continues with media and or signaling being exchanged with the given AT on multiple systems. Otherwise if the application server determines to terminate multiple system support for the given AT the application server transitions to providing single system support for the communication session to the given AT e.g. such as in A of B of A of B or B of A of B or B of and or C or C of .

In the example of after the ACK on system A is received at the application server the application server can stop supporting the media flow to AT on systems other than system A and instead can limit its media flow forwarding to AT on system A only to conserve system resources A. Thereby the application server transitions to single system support for AT on system A in B which corresponds to A of .

Accordingly the application server begins forwarding the media flow to AT on each of systems A and B but not system C e.g. because support on system C was not requested in the message of C and also continues to provide the media flow to AT on system A C. While not shown in it may be assumed that AT monitors the media flow on both systems A and B in C. It may also be assumed that the application server sends periodic signaling messages to AT on both systems A and B when multiple system support is provided to ensure that AT is receiving the media flow on both of the systems and that AT successfully ACKs these periodic signaling messages.

Next at some later point in time AT determines that one or more performance metrics on system B drop below a threshold level C e.g. which may be equal to or different than the threshold level associated with C and may correspond to the same or different performance parameters as in C . Next responsive to the determination of C AT sends a message requesting that the application server support the communication session exclusively on and system A at IP address IP C. Upon receiving the message of C the application server stops supporting the media flow to AT on system A and restricts media flow support for AT s communication session to system A C. Thereafter the application server transitions to single system support for AT on system A in C.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

