---

title: Methods and systems for presenting weather hazard information on an in-trail procedures display
abstract: Systems and methods for improving situational awareness on an in-trails procedures display. A radar system transmits a radar signal and receives and stores weather radar reflectivity values into a three-dimensional buffer. A processor determines whether any of the stored weather reflectivity values indicate the presence of a weather hazard and generates one or more weather hazard icons based on the stored weather reflectivity values. An in-trail procedures display device displays the generated weather hazard icons. Wake vortex information for other aircraft is generated and outputted on the in-trail procedures display. Also, the processor receives a request for an altitude change and generates an alert when the aircraft is determined not to be cleared to transition to the requested altitude based on a projected transition, any existing weather hazards, wake vortices of proximate aircraft, and in-trail procedures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08665133&OS=08665133&RS=08665133
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08665133
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100204
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under U.S. Government Contract No. DTFAWA 09 1 0001 Mod 003 Effective Sep. 14 2009 with the FAA. The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.

Efficient oceanic operations normally require flight level changes. Climbs or descents provide optimal performance to take advantage of favorable winds or to avoid turbulence.

Automatic dependent surveillance broadcast ADS B in trail procedures ITP are airborne ADS B enabled climbs and descents through otherwise blocked flight levels. ITP is based on an approved International Civil Aviation Organization ICAO procedure whereby a controller separates aircraft based on information derived from cockpit sources that is relayed by the flight crew.

ITP allows a leading or following aircraft on the same track to climb or descend to a desired flight level through flight levels occupied by other aircraft. An ITP display enables a flight crew to determine if specific criteria for an ITP are met with respect to one or two reference aircraft at intervening flight levels. These criteria ensure that the spacing between the estimated positions of the ITP aircraft and reference aircraft always exceeds the ITP separation minimum of 10 NM while vertical separation does not exist during the climb or descent. Once the flight crew has established that the ITP criteria are met they request an ITP climb or descent identifying any reference aircraft in the clearance request. Air Traffic Control ATC must determine if standard separation will be met for all aircraft at the requested flight level and at all flight levels between the initial flight level and requested flight level. If so a standard non ITP flight level change clearance is likely to be granted. Otherwise if the reference aircraft are the only blocking aircraft the controller evaluates the ITP request. ATC determines if the reference aircraft have been cleared to change speed or change flight level or are about to reach a point at which a significant change of track will occur. The controller also ensures that the requesting aircraft is not referenced in another procedure. ATC also ensures that the positive Mach difference with the reference aircraft is no greater than 0.06 Mach. If each of these criteria are satisfied then ATC may issue the ITP flight level change clearance.

An example of an ITP climb is shown in . An ITP aircraft is behind a reference aircraft that is at a higher intervening flight level FL . Standard air traffic control ATC procedures apply to the other aircraft two aircraft at FL and one at FL .

ITP requires new airborne equipment to provide improved information about nearby traffic. ADS B data broadcast from these aircraft provide more accurate position data than currently available to oceanic controllers. The more accurate airborne surveillance data facilitate safe flight level changes through intervening flight levels. The airborne ITP system receives ADS B data that includes flight identification altitude aircraft position groundspeed and quality of data information. The ITP system displays the information derived from received ADS B data on traffic displays such as a cockpit display of traffic information CDTI . Both plan view and vertical situational awareness displays VSAD are possible see .

The present invention provides systems and methods for improving situational awareness on an in trail procedures display. A radar system transmits a radar signal and receives and stores weather radar reflectivity values into a three dimensional buffer. An example processor determines whether any of the stored weather reflectivity values indicate the presence of a weather hazard and generates one or more weather hazard icons based on the stored weather reflectivity values. An in trail procedures display device displays the generated weather reflectivity and weather hazard icons. Wake vortex information for other aircraft is generated and outputted on the in trail procedures display. Also the processor receives a request for an altitude change and generates an alert when the aircraft is determined not to be cleared to transition to the requested altitude based on a projected transition any existing weather hazards wake vortices of proximate aircraft and in trail procedures.

Radar relies on a transmission of a pulse of electromagnetic energy referred to herein as a signal. The antenna narrowly focuses the transmission of the signal pulse in comparison with the whole breadth of a desired downrange image. Like the light from a flashlight this narrow signal illuminates any objects target in its path and illuminated objects reflect the electromagnetic energy back to the antenna.

Reflectivity data corresponds to that portion of a radar s signal reflected back to the radar by liquids e.g. rain and or frozen droplets e.g. hail sleet and or snow residing in a weather object such as a cloud or storm or residing in areas proximate to the cloud or storm generating the liquids and or frozen droplets.

The radar controller or another processor calculates the distance of the weather object relative to the antenna based upon the length of time the transmitted signal pulse takes in the transition from the antenna to the target and back to the antenna . The relationship between distance and time is linear as the velocity of the signal is constant approximately the speed of light in a vacuum.

The memory includes a three dimensional volumetric buffer for storing the reflectivity data. The processor has the capabilities of inferring lightning hail or turbulence based on the reflectivity values stored in the volumetric buffer. The processor having access to the volumetric buffer provides weather and wake vortex information to the ITP display device .

An ITP climb or descent request generated by the ITP processor includes weather information from the weather radar system and wake vortex information and information about any ITP aircraft or weather based on information received via the data link . The pilot gets the additional weather information and makes an altitude change request based on that additional data if appropriate. In one embodiment the Oceanic Air Traffic Controller OATC also gets this information i.e. it is transmitted to the OATC via the ITP request.

The ITP plan view vertical situation awareness display VSAD and or three dimensional display devices present all relevant data. This data includes 

Airborne weather hazard information such as presence of turbulence convective activity hail lightning 

An example weather radar system is Honeywell s IntuVue Weather Radar which encompasses a three dimensional volumetric buffer. The radar system continuously scans the entire three dimensional space in front of the aircraft and stores all reflectivity data in an earth referenced three dimensional or volumetric memory buffer memory . The buffer is continuously updated with reflectivity data from new scans. The data stored in the buffer are compensated for aircraft movement speed heading altitude . The data in the buffer are updated at a rate of every 30 seconds for example. The three dimensional method employs a scanning scheme that provides full coverage over a total of 15 to 15 degrees tilt control range. The reflectivity data are extracted from the buffer to generate the desired display views without having to make and wait for view specific antenna scans. In one embodiment this extraction and image generation are performed at one second intervals compared to four seconds for conventional radar . With the three dimensional volumetric buffer data the display presentation is not constrained to a single tilt plane that is inherent to conventional radar.

The present invention provides weather awareness enhancements on the ITP display device that include 

Weather hazard information such as the presence of turbulence convective activity hail volcanic ash lightning 

In another embodiment the actual range and therefore not ITP distance is used when weather reflectivity data are presented on the VSA section of the ITP display . Thus the x axis on the VSA section could either be ITP distance or actual range. This implies that the pilot would have three possible displays Plan View ITP based VSA display with other aircraft and range based VSA display with weather and with or without traffic .

Other icons can be presented on ITP displays. Exemplary icons show the vertical dimensions of icing winds aloft etc. Forecast or reported winds aloft outside air temperature OAT and pressure and ride reports i.e. PIREPS can all be used to inform the pilot when received transformed and rendered on the ITP display device . Aircraft ahead of own ship data link actual conditions while weather service providers transmit forecast conditions as well as actual weather along the route of flight. This weather data will in some cases have to be extrapolated into a three dimensional model while in other cases the three dimensional data will be packaged by the provider. As shown in a winds aloft icon may include velocity and source of information. Examples of the source of information include forecast winds FW data linked winds DL from aircraft ahead and at same altitude and pilot reports PIREPS winds PR that are data linked to ownship .

One of the key tasks for the flight crew during an ITP climb or descent is to select the desired flight level prior to detecting potentially blocking aircraft. After the crew selects a desired flight level that flight level is highlighted on the vertical profile section of the ITP display. In one embodiment the processor provides the flight crew with a visual aural and or tactile alert if the desired flight level passes through or is within predefined lateral and vertical constraints from the hazardous area. Hazards can include turbulence hail lightning convective activity volcanic ash or a wake vortex. Other hazards may include violating ITP procedure if the altitude change is executed. The visual alert is provided on the VSAD section of the ITP display plan view and or three dimensional display. shows wake vortex and altitude transition alerts on the ITP display . The desired flight level passes through a hazardous area wake vortex and thus the flight level is visually coded e.g. flashing and or differently colored e.g. amber . An audio and or visual text message check desired flight level can also be presented.

A menu system can be provided via the user interface to the pilot so that the pilot is able to select or declutter just those weather objects of interest and that are relevant to the crew s decision making Alerting can be provided to the crew to make it obvious that desired flight level or track change may take the aircraft into an area of hazardous weather. In another embodiment an options allows the crew to select ITP distance or actual range based displays.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

