---

title: Unalterable notification service
abstract: A technique is presented of providing, in an electronic central server, transactional information to a user. The technique includes receiving a set of transaction messages from a set of transactional information sources, each transaction message including respective transaction data. The technique also includes generating a transaction history from the set of transaction messages, the transaction history including the respective transaction data of each transaction message. The technique further includes delivering an aggregate message to a set of user devices, the aggregate message including the transaction history and being presented in atomic form to the user in order to prevent an attacker from excising particular transaction data from the aggregate message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08799375&OS=08799375&RS=08799375
owner: EMC Corporation
number: 08799375
owner_city: Hopkinton
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
An example of an electronic transaction is an online purchase of a product or service which charges a user s credit card or bank account. Another example of an electronic transaction is a wire transfer which sends funds from one bank account to another bank account.

To effectuate an electronic transaction a user typically logs onto a computer and runs a program e.g. a web browser an institution specific graphical user interface etc. which communicates with a remote institution that carries out the electronic transaction e.g. an online store a financial institution website etc. . At some point during the process the remote institution may send a notification email message to the user s computer informing the user that the institution has handled that particular electronic transaction.

To effectuate another electronic transaction the user communicates with another remote institution or perhaps the same institution via the user s computer in the same manner. Again at some point during the process the user may receive a separate i.e. second notification email message informing the user that the institution has handled the second electronic transaction.

Unfortunately there are deficiencies to the above described conventional approach to effectuating electronic transactions and receiving separate notification email messages. For example it may be possible for a hacker i.e. a phisher to obtain sensitive user information such as a username a password a user s credit card number a user s bank account number etc. and carry out an unauthorized electronic transaction at a remote institution. Furthermore before the user is able to read the notification email message which informs the user of the electronic transaction the hacker may be able to logon to the user s email account and delete that notification email message. As a result the user will not know of the electronic transaction until a significant amount of time has passed if at all.

In contrast to the above described conventional approach to effectuating electronic transactions and receiving separate notification email messages an improved technique provides transactional information to a user customer via delivery of an aggregate message to a set of user devices to which the user has access i.e. one or more user devices . The aggregate message includes a transaction history and is presented in atomic form to the user in order to prevent a hacker e.g. a phisher or other type of fraudster from excising particular transaction data from the aggregate message.

Such a technique of providing in an electronic central server transactional information to a user includes receiving a set of transaction messages from a set of transactional information sources each transaction message including respective transaction data. The technique also includes generating a transaction history from the set of transaction messages the transaction history including the respective transaction data of each transaction message. The technique further includes delivering an aggregate message to a set of user devices the aggregate message including the transaction history and being presented in atomic form to the user in order to prevent an attacker from excising particular transaction data from the aggregate message.

Generating the transaction history from the set of transaction messages can include extracting first transaction data from a first transaction message extracting second transaction data from a second transaction message and combining the first transaction data and the second transaction data to form at least a portion of the transaction history.

Delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can include sending a webpage to a browser running on a computerized device the webpage including a list of financial transactions as the transaction history which includes the respective transaction data of each transaction message. Delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can further include broadcasting a wireless signal to a wireless phone device the wireless signal including the list of financial transactions as the transaction history which includes the respective transaction data of each transaction message.

Delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can further include formatting the aggregate message into an XML document to be read by a syndicate feed reader on a user device from the set of user devices. Alternatively the document can be formatted into a proprietary format that is pulled and read by an application programming interface the details of which will be described below. Delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can further include formatting the aggregate message to be inserted into an email message to be read by an email program on a user device from the set of user devices and inserting a digital certificate into the email message the digital certificate causing delivery settings associated with the email message to the email program to take precedence over user defined settings within the email program for a predetermined period of time and prevent the user from deleting the email message for a predetermined period of time.

Receiving the set of transaction messages from the set of transactional information sources can include acquiring the set of transaction messages through a set of secure communications channels. In this case delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can include transmitting the aggregate message to the set of user devices through communications media which is less secure than the set of secure communications channels.

The technique can further include counting a number of individual transactions to be reported to the user within the transaction history and billing the user or the transaction source a fee based on the number of individual transactions sent via the aggregate message to the set of user devices.

The technique can further include storing the transaction history in a location within a computer readable storage medium accessible to the electronic central server the location associated with the user and receiving a request from the user for the transaction history.

The technique can further include sending an acknowledgment message to each transactional information source in the set of transactional information sources upon receipt of the set of transaction messages and receiving an acknowledgment message from the user that the aggregate message was delivered to the set of user devices.

Receiving the set of transactional messages includes acquiring the set of transactional messages in response to calls to an application programming interface the application programming interface constructed and arranged to receive information concerning a transaction involving the user construct a message containing the information concerning the transaction and send the message to the electronic central server.

Alternatively delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can include communicating through an application programming interface API stored and executed on at least one user device from the set of user devices an aggregate message to the user. In this case the API can be configured to allow the user to log in and retrieve the aggregate message from the electronic central server. The API can take the form of a toolbar embedded in a browser such as Google Toolbar MSN Messenger etc.

A further embodiment to the stated problem is an apparatus configured to provide transactional information to a user. The apparatus includes a network interface a non volatile memory and a processor coupled to the network interface and the non volatile memory. The processor is configured and arranged to perform the technique described above.

The network interface can be coupled a set of secure communications channels. In this case the network interface can be coupled to a communications media which is less secure than the set of secure communications channels.

The communications media can include a broadcast device configured to broadcast a wireless signal to a wireless phone device the wireless signal including the list of financial transactions as the transaction history which includes the respective transaction data of each transaction message.

The non volatile memory can be constructed and arranged to store the transaction history in a location associated with the user. In this case the network interface can be further configured to receive requests from the user for the transaction history.

The processor can be further configured to format the aggregate message to be inserted into an email message to be read by an email program on a user device from the set of user devices and insert a digital certificate into the email message the digital certificate causing delivery settings associated with the email message to the email program to take precedence over user defined settings within the email program.

A further embodiment to the stated problem is a computer program product which includes a non transitory computer readable storage medium storing code when executed by a computer causes the computer upon receiving a set of transaction messages over a network interface from a set of transactional information sources each transaction message including respective transaction data the computer readable storage medium accessible to an electronic central server. The code includes instructions to generate a transaction history from the set of transaction messages the transaction history including the respective transaction data of each transaction message. The code also includes instructions to deliver over the network interface an aggregate message to a set of user devices the aggregate message including the transaction history and being presented in atomic form in order to the user in order to prevent an attacker from excising particular transaction data from the aggregate message.

Receiving the set of transaction messages from the set of transactional information sources can include acquiring the set of transaction messages through a set of secure communications channels. In this case delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can include transmitting the aggregate message to the set of user devices through communications media which is less secure than the set of secure communications channels.

Delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can further include formatting the aggregate message into an XML document to be read by a syndicate feed reader on a user device from the set of user devices.

Delivering the aggregate message to the set of user devices can further include formatting the aggregate message to be inserted into an email message to be read by an email program on a user device from the set of user devices and inserting a digital certificate into the email message the digital certificate causing delivery settings associated with the email message to the email program to take precedence over user defined settings within the email program.

An improved technique of providing transactional information to a user customer includes delivering an aggregate message to a set of user devices to which the user has access. The aggregate message includes a transaction history and is presented in atomic form to the user in order to prevent a fraudster or other type of malicious attacker from excising particular transaction data from the aggregate message.

Network infrastructure includes a set of institution side channels between the institutions and the electronic central server . Additionally the network infrastructure includes a set of user side channels between the electronic central server and the user devices . It should be understood that parts of the network infrastructure may include a public network such as the Internet public airwaves and so on.

The set of institution side channels i.e. the communications pathways between the institutions and the electronic central server is preferably highly secure and resistant to hackers. Alternatively institution side channels can use public networks along with a specific handshake to prevent a fraudster from masquerading as an institution. Along these lines the institutions and the electronic central server have the resources to devote towards imposing a high level of security.

On the other hand the set of user side channels between the electronic central server and the user devices may be less secure and more vulnerable to a malicious hacker. The fraudster however is not able to control the flow of information to the user. For example if the fraudster opts out of a notification service the user will receive a message stating that the notification service was stopped. To this effect during operation of the electronic environment the electronic central server periodically sends an aggregate message to the user devices . The aggregate message includes a transaction history and is presented in atomic form to the user in order to prevent a fraudster or other type of malicious attacker from excising particular transaction data from the aggregate message. Accordingly as long as the user is able to receive the aggregate message the user is able to monitor all of the user s electronic transaction activity. Moreover the absence of the aggregate message i.e. the failure to receive the aggregate message from the electronic central server provides a clear signal to the user that the user should further investigate as a safeguard against an attacker.

Network interface as noted above includes connections to secure channels to institutions . On the other hand network interface also includes connections to an insecure public network over which communications between electronic central server and user devices take place.

Non volatile memory stores various transaction data received from institutions through network interface .

Processor is coupled to network interface and non volatile memory . Processor at some prompt is configured to locate data on non volatile memory corresponding to a particular user having user devices . Processor is further configured to combine all transaction data relating to the user into an aggregate message containing a transaction history.

During operation institutions and receive notifications and respectively of transactions involving a user. Electronic central server receives transaction messages and respectively from institutions and through network interface over secure channels . Transaction messages preferably describe financial transactions nevertheless other transactions are possible. When the transaction messages are sent from institutions to electronic central server over secure channels the chances of interception or alteration of any transaction message is greatly reduced from the case where the transaction messages are sent over a public network. To maintain security institutions will be instructed not to include sensitive information that can be part of a transaction message e.g. social security number credit card number bank account number etc. are omitted from messages .

Preferably institutions are set up to send the transaction messages to the central electronic server via a dedicated application programming interface API . The APIs take the form of a set of instructions executed by a processor on a server at one of the institutions . The APIs are constructed and arranged to receive information concerning a transaction involving the user construct a message containing the information concerning the transaction and send the message to electronic central server . Because the communications between institutions and electronic central server are more secure than those between user devices and electronic central server the APIs can be constructed and arranged to increase or decrease the security of the communications channels at the institutions as desired. A further advantage of using an API to construct the transaction messages is that information sent to electronic central server can be customized or standardized across different institutions and platforms to whatever degree institutions desire.

Electronic central server upon receiving the transaction messages performs a storage of the transaction messages on non volatile memory . The storage can be organized by institution and a user identifier or just by a user identifier when there is a common user identification scheme used by institutions e.g. social security number.

At a certain prompt electronic central server collects the stored transaction messages corresponding to a user having user devices . The prompt may be a certain time e.g. a daily message or a prompt from one or more of institutions . In collecting the messages processor on electronic central server locates the transaction messages on non volatile memory and places the messages in a temporary location on non volatile memory .

Once the stored transaction messages corresponding to the user are collected and placed in a location processor combines the transaction messages into an aggregate message containing the transaction history. The transaction history within aggregate message preferably contains the transaction messages collected since a previous sending of an aggregate message to user devices . Alternatively an entire transaction history may be sent to user devices .

Aggregate message is constructed and arranged to contain the details of each transaction from the user s transaction history. Further aggregate message is presented in an atomic form that is very difficult to alter in any way.

Processor once aggregate message is constructed performs a delivery of aggregate message to user devices . The delivery of aggregate message to user devices is done over a public network e.g. the Internet which is less secure than the secure channels used to send the transaction messages from institutions to electronic central server . The delivery takes the form of sending a webpage to a browser running on user devices the webpage including a list of financial transactions as the transaction history which includes the respective transaction data of each transaction message. Further the delivery can take the form of broadcasting a wireless signal to wireless phone device the wireless signal including the list of financial transactions as the transaction history which includes the respective transaction data of each transaction message. User devices can be configured to send an acknowledgment message to electronic central server .

Alternatively the delivery can include formatting the aggregate message into an XML document to be read by a syndicate feed reader on user devices . An example of such a syndicate feed reader is Google Reader made by Google Inc.

Alternatively the delivery can include formatting the aggregate message to be inserted into an email message to be read by an email program at least one of user device user devices and inserting a digital certificate into the email message. In this case the digital certificate causes delivery settings associated with the email message to the email program to take precedence over user defined settings within the email program for a predetermined period of time. For example if a fraudster has accessed the user s email account so as to filter out messages having text naming one of the institutions the certificate would override such a filter and be delivered to user devices . The certificate may also be able to prevent the fraudster from deleting the E mail message during a pre determined length of time.

Alternatively the user can send a message via one of user devices directly to one of institutions requesting an updated transaction history. The institution in this case sends a message to electronic central server requesting that a transaction history with transactions involving the user at that institution be sent to user devices . Message then serves as a prompt for electronic central server to perform delivery of aggregate message to user devices .

The delivering of the aggregate messages to user devices in atomic form has the advantage that the user is much more likely to see all the transactions within accounts in the user s name. The fraudster even having complete access to the user s email accounts will be unable to selectively excise fraudulent activity from the user s notifications and escape attention. Still further even if the fraudster has gained access to the user s computer or laptop via a bot or worm specifically designed to hide the atomic messages user will continue to receive notifications on other devices such as wireless phone device .

The adding of the security infrastructure described above is typically a service provided to a user from an institution with which the user does business. The institutions are billed a fee based on the number of individual transactions sent via the aggregate message to the insitution s users. In one configuration processor in electronic central server counts a number of individual transactions to be reported to the user within the transaction history. Alternatively the user can be billed for the security service provided by electronic central server In such a scenario the user can be billed in various ways including but not limited to flat fees registration per feed etc.

The transactional informational sources in step are preferably financial institutions with which the user does business but can be other types of sources e.g. government institutions. The receiving of the transaction messages by the central electronic server is preferably done over secure communications channels.

The transaction history generated in step is for a user. A way of accomplishing this generation is to store on a non volatile memory the transaction messages and then locate with a processor the messages corresponding to the user.

The aggregate message in step is presented in atomic form so that no part of the transaction history may be excised from the aggregate message. The aggregate message further contains no sensitive information pertaining to the user.

While various embodiments of the invention have been particularly shown and described it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

For example it should be understood that some embodiments are directed to an electronic environment which utilizes systems that providing transactional information to a user. Some embodiments are directed to electronic central server . Some embodiments are directed to a process of providing transactional information to a user. Also some embodiments are directed to a computer program product which enables computer logic to perform the providing of transactional information to a user.

In some arrangements electronic central server is implemented by a set of processors or other types of control processing circuitry running software. In such arrangements the software instructions can be delivered to electronic central server in the form of a computer program product illustrated generally by a diskette icon in having a computer readable storage medium which stores the instructions in a non volatile manner. Examples of suitable computer readable storage media include tangible articles of manufacture and apparatus such as CD ROM flash memory disk memory tape memory and the like.

