---

title: Blow-off float vehicle recovery apparatus
abstract: The invention in one variation is a modular recovery apparatus for dispensing a tether spool having a tow line with a float, where the tow line can be used to retrieve an unmanned underwater vehicle and other underwater platforms. The modular recovery apparatus can be triggered underwater or on the surface, and being modular in configuration it is suitable to be fitted to a variety of unmanned underwater vehicles (UUVs). The apparatus has a tether spool that is spring loaded, such that when the tether spool is deployed, the spring expels the tether spool with sufficient force to clearly separate it from the UUV. One end of the tow line is typically fastened to a tow point on the UUV, and an opposing end is attached to the float. When the tether spool is deployed, the tow line unwinds from the float, providing a securable length.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08167670&OS=08167670&RS=08167670
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08167670
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100920
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for Governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a recovery system for an unmanned underwater vehicle and in particular to a modular recovery apparatus for dispensing a tow line with a float where the recovery apparatus is fitted to the unmanned underwater vehicle.

Unmanned underwater vehicles have the characteristic of being easier to launch than to recover especially in high seas. Restrictions from the sea state dictate if the mission is conducted that day. If the determination was made of the possibility of a high sea state at the time of recovery or the UUV could not be moved to a shielded area away from the high sea state the UUV wasn t launched. Recovery is made using a small recovery boat and damage to the UUV is probable in high seas during recovery when the small recovery boat would hit or run over the UUV. Recovery typically employs a securing sled or a loop wire that snags a hook projecting from the UUV and a robotic arm that secures the UUV onto the deck of the launch ship.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 475 to Jan W Crane and Helmut Portmann both from Panama City Beach Fla. discloses a launch and recovery system for unmanned underwater vehicles UUV . The system includes a watercraft with a stern end wall movable between a vertical position and a ramp position that is angled downward toward the water surface. A storage platform mounted on the watercraft and terminating at the stern end wall defines a storage area for UUVs. An arm is pivotally mounted to the watercraft at a position forward of the storage platform. The arm has an outboard end that can be extended to positions aft of the watercraft and on either side thereof. The arm is also retractable such that its outboard end is positionable over the storage platform. A capture mechanism is mounted to the outboard end of the arm and is used to capture a UUV that maneuvers thereto in the water. A homing mechanism is coupled to the arm and is used to transmit a homing signal through the water for use by the UUV in maneuvering towards the capture mechanism.

The invention provides for a modular recovery apparatus for dispensing a tether spool having a tow line with a float where the tow line can be used to retrieve an unmanned underwater vehicle and other underwater platforms. The modular recovery apparatus can be triggered underwater or on the surface and being modular in configuration it is suitable to be fitted to a variety of unmanned underwater vehicles UUVs . The term UUVs herein collectively includes remotely operated vehicles ROVs autonomous underwater vehicles AUVs and remotely operated towed vehicles ROTVs .

An aspect of the invention is that the tow line can be coiled or wound. The modular recovery apparatus is sized to be compatible for integration onto UUVs and underwater platforms of all sizes and can be retrofitted to existing UUVs. Another aspect of the invention is that the modular recovery apparatus can be deployed underwater and deployed on the surface using a variety of triggering mechanisms in contact with a release controller.

In one variation of the modular recovery apparatus the tether spool is spring loaded such that when the tether spool is deployed the spring projects the tether spool with sufficient force to clearly separate it from the UUV. One end of the tow line is typically fastened to a tow point of the UUV and an opposing end is attachable to the float. When the tether spool is deployed the tow line unwinds from the tether spool providing a securable length. The float carries the tow line toward the surface of the sea where the tow line can be recovered with a grappling hook boat hook a loop and the like. Once the tow line is recovered it can be brought onboard the recovery ship and the UUV can be pulled in for recovery.

Another variation of the invention includes a modular recovery apparatus having a compression spring loaded inside a canister. The modular recovery apparatus is typically mounted in the nose of the UUV. In one variation a trigger to deploy the float is activated with a burn wire which in turn releases the compression spring or the tether spool pressing down the compression spring projecting the tether spool the net effect being that the tether spool is deployed by the spring with sufficient force to clearly separate it from the UUV. Other triggering devices including solenoids detonating cords pyrotechnic initiation devices compressed gas canisters and other actuators are anticipated. The triggering device is initiated by a release controller.

The burn wire can be actuated by a variety of methods of communication including electromagnetic radiation such as radio frequency RF infrared light lack of light sound a pressure pulse magneto inductive emissions after at a predetermined time and having the UUV programmed to deploy the tether spool at the end of a mission. A preferred method for activation when the UUV is on the surface is via radio frequency and acoustically when the UUV is underwater.

The invention is a blow off float vehicle recovery apparatus where the recovery apparatus is modular and can be fitted to unmanned underwater vehicles UUVs making recovery of them much easier and safer. When recovery is desired the modular recovery apparatus dispenses a tether spool having a tow line with a float where the tow line is typically attached to a tow point on the UUV. The tow point is typically located on the nose of the UUV. Deployment of the tether spool is actuated using a preferred triggering device. Following deployment a length of tow line wound on the tether spool separates from the float either by the action of waves the movement of the UUV relative to the float the relative buoyancy of the float versus the UUV if UUV is underwater the float will move toward the surface or a combination thereof. The tow line preferably also floats making it relatively easy to grasp for instance using a grappling hook a boat hook and other line snagging tools. Once the tow line is recovered the tow line can be brought onboard the recovery ship and the UUV can be pulled in for recovery.

The modular recovery apparatus can be triggered underwater or on the surface and being modular in configuration it is suitable to be fitted to a variety of unmanned underwater vehicles UUVs . Illustrated variations of the invention are discussed below.

Referring to which is a partially cutaway perspective front side mounting side view of the modular recovery apparatus a canister is attached to a mounting frame . The mounting frame attaches the apparatus to an interior side of a curved wall of a UUV where the wall of the UUV has an opening . The wall and opening are illustrated in and . The mounting frame includes a pair of substantially parallel plates separated by a distance greater than the diameter of the opening as shown in . Each plate has a curvilinear side that mounts substantially flush with the interior side of curved wall . The plates are joined with a spanning plate having a curvilinear edge and an open portion in which fits the canister . The curvilinear edge of the spanning plate mounts substantially flush with the interior side of curved wall of the UUV. The canister is mounted in the open portion of the spanning plate utilizing a canister support ring . The canister support ring is fastened to both the canister and the spanning plate . In the illustrated variation the canister support ring is mounted to a bottom side of the spanning plate which is preferred as the actuator assembly is located on a topside of the spanning plate .

The canister has a substantially cylindrical wall that interiorly defines a bore with a bore diameter see a contoured open end and an opposing end that preferably is partially closed. Partial closure can be achieved by casting the canister with the opposing end partially closed or by fitting it with an end cap as illustrated. Partial closure allows water to drain out. The contoured open end mounts substantially flush with the interior side of curved wall of the UUV at the opening so that the rim of the open end substantially conforms to or is at a smaller diameter than the edge of opening to facilitate the easy exit of the tether spool from the UUV. The cylindrical wall has an actuator port . In the illustrated variation the bore is substantially uniform in diameter and when not latched components within the bore can move with little frictional resistance. The composition of the materials that are used in the fabrication of the canister is selected to ensure that frictional resistance does not become an operational problem.

The canister contains a compression spring in a substantially hollow piston that can receive the compression spring when it is compressed. The spring is suggested in but it is visible in and in the sprung state and in in the compressed state.

As shown in the hollow piston has a head with a head diameter that is less than the bore diameter where the head has an axial ring that can center a rod like element such as a connecting rod . Typically prior to activation the compression spring remains loaded in the hollow piston in the bore of the canister latched in a compressed state. In the illustrated variation the piston has several holes in the piston head to allow passage of water. is variously referred to illustrate features of the invention.

Returning to the modular recovery apparatus has a tether spool where the tether spool is wound with a tow line on a float . The tether spool has a circular first end wall with a beveled perimeter and an opposing second end wall . The beveled perimeter enables the tow line to be easily pulled off the tether spool. The tether spool is centrally seated in the bore of the canister proximate to the head of the hollow piston . The first end wall has an overall diameter as shown in that is less than the head diameter as shown in of the piston. The second end wall functions as a cover for the apparatus and a pressure point from the compressed spring on the latch . The second end wall cover has a cover diameter that is slightly smaller than the bore diameter and therefore substantially occludes the bore . The cover diameter is greater than an inside diameter of a stop collar so that the stop collar substantially relieves downward pressure by the latch and maintains the tether spool in an orientation that is axial with respect to the bore of the canister.

The stop collar also prevents the compression spring and piston from being expelled from the canister when the tether spool is deployed. Following deployment the head of the piston substantially occludes access to the bore . The stop collar is affixed in the bore above the head and below the second end wall of the tether spool. In the illustrated embodiment thumbscrews are used to set the exact position. The stop collar has an outside diameter that is smaller than the bore diameter and an inside diameter that is larger than the overall diameter of the first end wall of the tether spool therefore while the tether spool below the second end wall can easily pass the piston head is stopped.

The modular recovery apparatus as shown in the Figures has an actuator framework that includes structural elements connected to the canister and the mounting frame therein forming an integrated unified modular device that can be fitted to UUVs of various missions.

The latch which keeps the tether spool locked in place against the piston holding the compression spring is shown in . The other components of the actuator assembly are discussed later.

The illustrated triggering device is a burn wire in electrical connection with a release controller such as a radio frequency RF release controller for surface activation and or an acoustic sound release controller for underwater activation both of which can generate an electrical current. The burn wire has an electrically frangible link attached to a first strain relief element with a first lead and a second strain relief element with a second lead. An electrical current causes the electrically frangible link to break therein enabling the lever no longer restrained by its connection to the burn wire and driven by the force of the compression spring against the latch end to rotate to the unlatched position. In one variation as shown in the burn wire intersects with the lever employing a housing with a static wall with a groove like aperture that partitions the electrically frangible link from the first strain relief element a cradle for the electrically frangible link and the intersecting end of the lever which is in tension connection with the second strain relief element that is connected to the electrically frangible link where the burn wire remains tensioned until the frangible link is caused to break with an electrical current through the wire therein allowing the lever to pivot to the unlatched position.

In the illustrated variation the UUV nose has a notch in the wall of the opening . There is also a notch in the wall of the canister and a notch in the second end wall . The tow line feeds through these notches onto the tether spool . In this illustrated variation the burn wire is in electrical connection with a radio frequency RF controller for surface activation and an acoustic sound controller for underwater activation where both controllers can generate an electrical current.

As shown in which is a perspective backside view of the modular recovery apparatus much of the actuator framework is shown. The shelf plate serves to provide support to the mounting frame and a mounting element for the actuator framework . Plates have risers and a platform for the shelf plate . Attached to the bottom of the shelf plate are a pair of short plate s . The short plates are substantially abutted against the canister and normally seated on the spanning plate of the mounting frame not visible see and . The burn wire is positioned between the short plates .

The canister is substantially cylindrical and has a bore with a bore diameter a contoured open end and an opposing end . The opposing end has an end cap with drain holes . There is an undercut portion that will fit in the bore and an extended portion that overlaps the end . An actuator port is located near the contoured open end .

The canister support ring having an inside diameter that is greater than outside diameter of the canister is fastened to both the canister and a bottom side of the spanning plate .

The illustrated apparatus has a hollow piston with a head with a head diameter that is less than the bore diameter where the head has an axial ring that can center an end of the connecting rod of the tether spool . The compression spring normally is loaded in the hollow piston in the compressed state. The compressed spring provides the energy to thrust the tether spool out of the canister. In the illustrated variation the piston has several holes in the piston head to allow passage of water.

The tether spool includes a circular first end wall with a beveled perimeter and a bearing a connecting rod attached to first end wall with hardware tow line spooled wound into a coil on a float having an axial core centered on the connecting rod . The float has a winding surface through which projects the connecting rod . The float is composed of a material that floats. The tether spool has an opposing second end wall . The tether spool is centrally seated in the bore of the canister proximate to the head of the hollow piston . The first end wall has an overall diameter that is less than the head diameter of the piston. The second end wall functions as a cover for the apparatus and a pressure point from the compressed spring on the latch . The second end wall cover has a cover diameter that is slightly smaller than the bore diameter and therefore substantially occludes the bore.

A stop collar is affixed in the bore of the canister above the head of the piston and below the second end wall of the tether spool. Thumbscrews are used to set the exact position. The stop collar has an outside diameter that is smaller than the bore diameter and an inside diameter that is larger than the overall diameter of the first end wall of the tether spool . The outside diameter of the second end wall cover is greater than the inside diameter of stop collar therefore the second end wall cover cannot move past the stop collar however the tether spool below the first end wall can easily pass. The piston head is too wide and it will be stopped.

The illustrated actuator assembly includes a lever with a latch end that latches the tether spool a pivot point and an intersecting end . The intersecting end has an aperture that intersects with the triggering device which is a burn wire having a frangible link a first strain relief element and a second strain relief element . The lever is supported by the lever support assembly . The lever support assembly includes a pin not shown a cradle and a pivot receptacle for the pin. The intersecting end is substantially U shaped which in addition to making the lever stronger also provides a defined area for the second strain relief element .

The burn wire is electrically connected to a release controller where the release controller produces an electrical current when actuated by radio waves light waves sound waves acoustic signals or magneto inductive emissions or when it is automatically activated at a predetermined time after a predetermined sequence of events or at the end of a mission.

The mounting frame is preferably composed of an engineering plastic selected from the group consisting of polyoxymethylene polymer polyoxymethylene copolymers nylon polycarbonate polyetheretherketone polyvinyl chloride acrylonitrile butylene stryrene polyphenylene sulfide chlorinated polyvinyl chloride polytetrafluoroethylene ultra high molecular weight polyethylene tetrafluoroethylene ethylene tetrafluoroethylene acrylic polymers and methacrylic polymers.

The most preferred engineering plastic is polyoxymethylene polymer and specifically Delrin made by Dupont. The canister and elements of the actuating framework including the shelf plate and the pair of short plates can also be primarily composed of a similar engineering plastic. Delrin has a relatively low coefficient of friction and is resistant to weathering.

The tow line is preferably composed of a material or combination of materials that floats. Examples include polyethylene and polypropylene. Nylon has a specific gravity that is comparable to seawater. Polyesters polyamides polyimides and aramides have a higher specific gravity and would not float. Lines having a core of nylon acrylic polymers and ethylene acrylic copolymer covered with an olefinic polymer like polyethylene will float.

The engineering plastic can be molded and then machined to have the final construction used in the apparatus.

It is to be understood that the foregoing description and specific embodiments are merely illustrative of the best mode of the invention and the principles thereof and that various modifications and additions may be made to the invention by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is therefore understood to be limited only by the scope of the appended claims.

