---

title: Microfluidic device for acoustic cell lysis
abstract: A microfluidic acoustic-based cell lysing device that can be integrated with on-chip nucleic acid extraction. Using a bulk acoustic wave (BAW) transducer array, acoustic waves can be coupled into microfluidic cartridges resulting in the lysis of cells contained therein by localized acoustic pressure. Cellular materials can then be extracted from the lysed cells. For example, nucleic acids can be extracted from the lysate using silica-based sol-gel filled microchannels, nucleic acid binding magnetic beads, or Nafion-coated electrodes. Integration of cell lysis and nucleic acid extraction on-chip enables a small, portable system that allows for rapid analysis in the field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09096823&OS=09096823&RS=09096823
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 09096823
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100831
---
This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U. S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to the lysis of biological cells and in particular to a microfluidic device and method for cell lysis by localized acoustic pressure.

The need to rapidly extract and process genomic material for identification of biological agents and disease is an ever increasing requirement. Methods that allow the complete unbiased isolation of nucleic acids from microorganisms and cellular samples are necessary to aid in molecular analysis methods and detection schemes. The biases implicit in samples makes it essential to develop preparation methods that directly access the nucleic acid content for field portable systems. This requires overcoming a variety of interferences that diminish quality yield and diversity of extracted nucleic acids. Routine laboratory methods for cell lysis include freeze thaw proteinase K lysozyme and guanidium salt treatments followed by ethanol or 2 propanol precipitation of liberated DNA ballistic disintegration and sonication at low frequencies e.g. kilohertz after pretreatment with other chemicals. See D. P. Chandler et al. 73 3784 2001 .

For field portable systems the tendency has been to simply downscale laboratory scale equipment in genetic engineering to microscale on chip processing. Therefore a key aspect is that the extraction format must be highly scalable to benefit from many types of biodetection systems that are already in place. Many of the current nucleic acid extraction techniques however require significant manual intervention and consumables leading to limitations that are especially relevant for the unattended timely detection of biological warfare agents or other microorganisms in a complex milieu. The continued reliance on large laboratory equipment e.g. centrifuges gel electrophoresis units ultracentrifuges requirements for chemical or enzymes that are labile or need special handling and storage and disposal further impede progress toward miniaturized autonomous detection.

Microsystems have been developed that use mechanical chemical thermal and chemical methods for cell lysis. Ultrasonic waves are known to induce significant pressure variation and induce cavitation within fluids. See G. Zhang et al. 35 3248 1996 . Thus acoustic waves can provide a non invasive lysing mechanism which is compatible with sealed microsystems. Acoustic methods avoid the use of harsh chemicals which often interfere with subsequent detection methods e.g. PCR . Often the altered pH and chemical background adds additional steps that can otherwise be avoided. Recently large scale acoustic transducers have proven powerful for disrupting cell membranes and spores and releasing the contents of the cytoplasm for subsequent DNA analysis. See D. P. Chandler et al. and P. Belgrader et al. 71 4232 1999 . Thin film based ultrasonic actuators have also been used to lyse cellular samples and have proven effective for microsystem applications. See T. C. Marentis et al. 31 1265 2005 and H. Jagannathan et al. 859 2001 . However small scale actuators suffer from limitations in attainable film thickness and meeting the thermal requirements for long term use. The deposition thicknesses that can be reasonably attained are between 1 to 10 which translates to range of 316 MHz to 3.165 GHz for ZnO. However a frequency of less than 300 MHz is far more optimal for coupling into the fluid. Moreover these devices must be strictly operated in a pulsed mode to prevent device damage.

A second major problem is that nearly all microsonicator approaches lack on chip nucleic acid extraction processing capability. Thus the lysate must be processed and purified off chip reducing the effectiveness of a microsystem solution. Nucleic acid purification methods that are suitable for on chip applications require the use of silicon based microstructures commercial nucleic acid binding media silica beads in the presence of chaotropic salts and silica matrices. See N. C. Cady et al. 19 59 2003 M. Mor et al. 60 1572 1994 R. Boom et al. 28 495 1990 and K. Wolfe et al. 23 727 2002 . Though packed silica beads bind and elute nucleic acids their inherent instability due to compression causes widely varying results. This limitation has been overcome by using a gelled sol gel solution of silica beads to stabilize the matrix improving reproducibility. Recently another powerful nucleic acid extraction method has been demonstrated which uses NAFION coated gold films to reversibly capture nucleic acids. See M. Lee et al. 380 335 2008 . This method is particularly easy to implement in microfluidic format and only needs low DC voltages for operation.

Therefore a need remains for an acoustic based microfluidic lysing device that can be integrated with an on chip nucleic acid extraction processing capability and can be used in a field portable system.

The present invention is directed to an acoustic based microfluidic device for cell lysis comprising a channel formed in a microfluidic substrate adapted to flow a fluid comprising biological cells therein and at least one acoustic transducer disposed on a lysis portion of the channel adapted to generate localized acoustic pressure in the lysis portion and thereby lyse the biological cells in the fluid by acoustic pressure. The transducer array can use 36 Y cut lithium niobate which efficiently couples bulk acoustic waves BAW into the channels. The height of the channel can be than ten acoustic wavelengths and preferably less than 100 microns. The operating frequency of the acoustic transducers can be less than 100 MHz. A heat sink can be provided for removal of heat generated by the acoustic transducers from the device to avoid thermal lysis or protein denaturization. The microfluidic substrate preferably comprises a rigid material such as plastic glass ceramic or a silicon based material. The channel can be a straight channel or can be a circuitous or serpentine channel to increase the exposure time to the acoustic pressure field. Preferably the acoustic transducer array is disposed on a separate array substrate that is reversibly coupled to a microfluidic cartridge comprising the channel formed in the microfluidic substrate to enable reuse of the transducer assembly while permitting disposal of the contaminated fluidic cartridges. The acoustic transducer array can efficiently and rapidly lyse samples for either subsequent use or further processing on the cartridge.

The device can further comprise a nucleic acid extraction portion formed in the microfluidic substrate downstream from the lysis portion adapted to extract nucleic acid from the lysate. The nucleic acid extraction portion can comprise means for extracting the nucleic acid from the lysate using a sol gel silica bead matrix nucleic acid binding magnetic beads or electric field extraction with NAFION coated electrodes. Successful lysing and DNA extraction from samples in plastic and glass based microfluidic cartridges has been demonstrated at levels sufficient for molecular beacon and PCR detection applications.

The present invention is directed to a microfluidic acoustic based cell lysing device that can be integrated with on chip nucleic acid extraction. Using a bulk acoustic wave BAW transducer array acoustic waves can be coupled into microfluidic cartridges resulting in the lysis of cells contained therein by acoustic pressure. Cellular materials can then be extracted from the lysed cells. For example nucleic acids can be extracted from the lysate using silica based sol gel filled microchannels nucleic acid binding magnetic beads or NAFION coated electrodes. Integration of cell lysis and nucleic acid extraction on chip enables a small portable system that allows for rapid analysis in the field.

The substrate can comprise a microfluidic material that is preferably rigid to minimize acoustic loss. For example the substrate can comprise plastic glass ceramic or a silicon based material. The channel can be a straight channel or can have a circuitous pattern e.g. serpentine to increase the exposure time to the acoustic pressure field. The channel can be formed in the substrate by microfabrication methods that are known in the art. For example a channel can be formed in polydimethylsiloxane PDMS by a standard molding process. Alternatively a channel can be formed in a glass ceramic or silicon based substrate by bulk or surface micromachining. Preferably the acoustic wavelength in the fluid is comparable to comparable to the size of the cells to be lysed. The height of the channel is preferably comparable to the acoustic attenuation length in the fluid and depends on the excited wavelength for optimal propagation distance. For example the height can preferably be less than ten acoustic wavelengths in the fluid and more preferably a few acoustic wavelengths. The width of the channel is preferably smaller than the acoustic transducer to maintain lysing uniformity.

A scattering parameter S can be used to characterize the electrical performance of the BAW transducer array prior to assembly with the microfluidic cartridge. S is a complex valued quantity that is equivalent to the measured reflection coefficient and from which the power delivered to the device can be calculated. For example S can be recorded across a 10 MHz 100 MHz band using a network analyzer. The power delivered to the device can be chosen to maximize lysing efficiency without causing cavitation or excessive heating of the transducer and heat sink. Thermal effects can dramatically limit the success of any acoustic based lysing system specifically where the protein content may be of interest.

A 1D transmission line model and a finite element method FEM can be used to calculate the acoustic pressure and velocity fields in the fluid filled channel. Using these computed fields the kinetic and potential energies can be calculated. This enables determination of the force profile within the channel. The acoustic transducers can be designed to create large pressure fields 10 MPa in a microfluidic channel to achieve efficient lysing. It is preferable that the lysing mechanism occur due to the acoustic pressure field alone rather than from localized heating during acoustic excitation. Therefore additional layers and thermal management can be used for impedance matching while mitigating any heat generated by the acoustic transducers.

Acoustic waves must satisfy both Newton s and Maxwell s equations. In the absence of external forces the equations are expressed as

In a piezoelectric substrate the coupled constitutive equations for piezoelectric media are given by 4 5 where e and care the piezoelectric stress constants and stiffness constants. Since the coupling between the electric and elastic fields is weak the magnetic fields can be neglected and the electric fields can be derived from the scalar potential. This is known as the static field approximation in which the particle displacements uare along the coordinate axis x. Eqs. 4 and 5 recognize Hooke s law and D E where E and is the electrical potential on the surface. Substituting Eqs. 4 and 5 into Eqs. 1 and 2 yields

In the FEM formalism for piezoelectricity the partial differential equations that relate the stresses to the particle displacement and the electric displacement to the free volume charge density are replaced with finite number of unknowns and used to solve Eqs. 4 and 5 . See H. Allik and T. J. R. Hughes 2 15 1970 . The piezoelectric transducer was analyzed using a multiphysics FEM tool. A triangular mesh was used for the entire structure.

In the fluid region the acoustic waves are governed by the frequency domain Helmholtz equation for determining the acoustic pressure

In the model shown in the piezoelectric transducer was excited by application of V 1 V to the top edge while the bottom surface had V 0 and the electrodes were modeled as infinitely thin. The edges of the transducer were fixed with the electrode surfaces allowed to move freely to approximate a real transducer. This boundary required that the displacements uand u 0. The top and bottom surface of the transducer were free to move. Continuity of stresses and displacements were imposed on the internal boundaries of the aluminum heat sink acrylic piezoelectric transducer and fused silica. The motion of the solid regions produces normal acceleration a at the interfaces between the fluid and acrylic layer given as

The material constants for 36 Y cut lithium niobate are shown in Table 1. For propagation along the z axis the longitudinal velocity was computed from the material constants in the Table as 7340 m s for the thickness extension mode. For fused silica the material constants are E 70 10N m 0.17 and 2200 kg m. The material constants for acrylic are E 9 10N m 0.37 1190 kg m 6.4 dB cm 5 Mhz. For Mylar the material constants are E 7.6 10N m 0.37 and 1190 kg m. The water was modeled as an ideal fluid with 1000 kg mand c 1500 m s. The material constants for the were 1050 kg m c 1700 m s and r 1 m.

In the microchannel the pressure field results from the superposition of standing waves in the z direction and waves in the x direction that are inherently weaker due to lateral coupling. The overall pressure field is calculated using the 2D FEM method for a non viscous fluid. The time averaged energy density J m in the fields is then split into the kinetic and potential which are given by

To ensure cell lysis is dominated by an acoustic process it is desirable to determine the thermal variation in the fluid and the associated heating of the composite structure. This was accomplished using a multiphysics model that coupled the Navier Stokes incompressible flow to a convection and conduction model. The fluid flow in the microchannel was described by 0 18 where u is the fluid velocity vector is the viscosity is the density and p is the pressure. By accounting for energy transport through the entire structure the heat carried by the fluid region and the heat loss to the ambient media the steady state thermal distribution can be computed.

The stationary thermal transport of convection and conduction was modeled using 19 where Cis the specific heat capacity is the density T is the temperature and Q is a sink or source term. For the fully developed laminar flow condition the following expression was used at the input port

To couple the maximum velocity in the channel to the flow rate the following expression was used l min fluid velocity cm s 6 10A cm 25 

For rapid modeling of piezoelectric and non piezoelectric composites a transmission line model offers significant advantages in computational speed. In a single layer n is shown for a general acoustic transducer which may be piezoelectric or non piezoelectric. The npiezoelectric layer of the transducer is represented by a three port circuit. The 1D model assumes that the total thickness of the multilayer transducer is 

To compute the electrical impedance of system comprising a single piezoelectric element the loading impedances on each face of the transducer Z Z must be calculated for the composite layers. This expression for successively transforming impedances layer by layer is given by

The solving procedure requires that the velocities thicknesses densities and attenuations are known for each layer. First the propagation constant for each layer can be computed followed by computing Eq. 34 for each layer. Using Eq. 33 the impedance loading the transducer can be computed by successive substitution and combined with Eq. 30 to compute the total electrical impedance of the loaded transducer. The advantage of one dimensional transmission line models is that they permit rapid design and optimization of transducers that have a large number of layers. Moreover optimization algorithms can be used to enhance power output impedance matching and frequency response.

For cell lysis the BAW transducer must couple sufficient acoustic energy into a fluid filled region to disrupt the cellular membrane. Preferably the BAW transducer array also reversibly couples to a microfluidic cartridge to enable reuse of the transducer assembly while permitting disposal of the contaminated fluidic cartridges. Therefore the design of the interface boundary between the acoustic transducers and the microfluidic channel is important to obtain the best possible acoustic coupling and permit reusability of the transducer array. Modeling can be used to investigate the physical parameters to reduce acoustic loss through the boundaries while permitting fluid movement through the microchannels. The modeled geometries of the unloaded and loaded transducer are shown in and

The impedance response is shown in for the unloaded and loaded 36 Y lithium niobate transducer based on the 1D transmission line and 2D FEM model. Though the unloaded transducer exhibits excellent resonance near 55 MHz the impedance was a not optimal Z 55 MHz 1.10 j7.15 . For the composite transducer Z 55 MHz 44.67 j16.9 which a much better match to a 50 ohm system. Perfect matching requires exquisite tracking of the maximal drive frequency. Therefore broadband behavior is preferable.

Transmission line models are significantly faster computationally providing rapid insight into the impact of various layers on the transducer. One disadvantage of this method is the cross sectional area is assumed to be a constant from layer to layer. Despite the limitations of a 1D analysis several key parameters can be extracted from this model the return loss S the acoustic velocities at the transducer faces and the radiated acoustic power. shows the return loss S for the unloaded and composite transducers based on a 1D transmission line model. After proper layer to layer matching the return loss at the resonance frequency provides an excellent match to a 50 ohm source. The return loss for the composite transducer shown in was 14.5 dB with a tunable range of 8 MHz based on maintaining 90 input power coupling to the transducers.

The 1D model can be used to compute the acoustic velocities at the faces of the composite transducer. For a peak to peak P P input voltage of 2.78 V the acoustic velocities at both faces was computed with Eq. 35 to be 3.4 cm sec at 54 MHz. The radiated acoustic power from the transducer was computed by applying Eq. 36 and using the loaded impedances and velocities at the transducer faces. At 54 MHz the total radiated acoustic power was 81.5 mW.

A more realistic model can be developed using a 2D FEM and 2D axially symmetric analysis which correctly accounts for changes in area from layer to layer. To compute the impedance of the transducer a known voltage was applied to the driven electrode and then the induced surface charge was computed. By sweeping the frequency the impedance was calculated using Eq. 12 . The calculation was based on 2D FEM of the transducer with infinitesimally thin Au electrodes in air. shows extracted impedance response of 36 Y lithium niobate transducer from a 2D FEM. The resonance and anti resonance frequencies assuming lossless conditions can be used to compute the piezoelectric coupling constant K. The piezoelectric coupling coefficient was computed from the known material parameters as defined in Table I and compared with the extracted K from the FEM impedance data. The materials parameters gave K 54 which agreed well with K 56.1 from the FEM model. This indicates that the 2D FEM model parameters are suitable for building more complex models of the acoustic transducer.

A 2D FEM model was used to compute the acoustic pressure distribution within the fluid region suitable for cell lysing. This fluid region was modeled as a cross section of the channel. Since the acoustic fields are nearly instantaneous compared to the mass transport through the microchannel a 2D simulation was sufficient to capture the pressure field. shows the localized acoustic pressure within the channel cross section. shows the acoustic pressure at 54 MHz for an applied voltage of 3 Vacross the transducer. The resulting peak acoustic field was 1 MPa with portions of the microchannel around 0.2 MPa. The acoustic pressure was computed at several drive frequencies across both the width and the height of the channel along cross sectional lines through the center of the channel as shown in and . shows the acoustic pressure at several drive frequencies across the width of the channel. shows the acoustic pressure at several drive frequencies across the height of the channel. The acoustic pressure was maximized and the optimal coupling to the frequency source was matched at 54 MHz. The BAW transducer had 90 electrical power coupling efficiency across a bandwidth of 8 MHz which provided excellent operating range. The acoustic pressure profiles within the microchannel demonstrate the scale at which the pressure undergoes rapid changes was on the order of 20 m.

The energy of the acoustic fields can be calculated as a function of the drive frequency. This can be used to determine if other possible acoustic modes are leaking energy from the primary excitation frequency. Using Eq. 16 the kinetic and potential energy due to the pressure and velocity of the acoustic waves were computed versus the drive frequency. shows the kinetic and potential energy of the acoustic fields in the center of channel. This computation indicates that the primary BAW mode is being excited and converted to acoustic energy at 54 MHz.

The thermal variation from the inlet to the outlet of the microchannel can be calculated from heat flux entering the boundary between the transducer and epoxy layers. This heat flux is the result of electrical and mechanical losses with the transducer. By using heat flux discontinuities at these boundaries the computation can be simplified from a time dependent to steady state model. This is a valid assumption when the lysing time is sufficiently long e.g. 20 seconds and therefore nearly reaches the steady state. First the P P voltage delivered to each BAW transducer at 50 was computed as 2.78 V 3.47 V which corresponded to the known input power i.e. 21.9 23.8 dBm . Then the 1D transmission line model was used to compute the radiated power of the emitted acoustic waves. By knowing the applied power input conservation of energy can be applied Eq. 37 to determine the mechanical and electrical loss. Since the transducer is most efficient at 52 54 MHz the radiated acoustic power was taken at this frequency. These values were used in the 1D model to determine the radiated acoustic power mechanical and electrical losses. Using Eqs. 36 and 37 the combined loss from the mechanical and electrical processes was 11.1 mW with a radiated acoustic power of 81.5 mW. The electrical loss P was only 0.7 mW. The power density across the transducer was 1570 W mfor a delivered power input of 21.9 dBm.

A 3D thermal model was used to model the physical boundary conditions and operation of the actual device shown in . To represent the operation of the acoustic transducers the interface between the acoustic transducers and the conductive epoxy were modeled as heat flux discontinuities. This model was solved for the steady state condition. At this boundary heat enters the system from acoustic mechanical and electrical losses P P 1570 W m . This is a reasonable approximation since the heat source is strictly a result of the losses in the system and eliminates the need to compute time dependent problems. At a power input of 23.8 dBm significant heating was observed at the microchannel outlet for the lower flow rates i.e. 5 30 l min .

Reducing the effects of cavitation is important to ensure optimal lysing efficiency within the microchannel. Though cavitation i.e. rapid formation and collapse of bubbles within a fluid may cause cell lysis the formation of air bubbles within the microchannel dramatically reduces the flow rate. Previous calculations indicate that cavitation is frequency dependent with a threshold of 8 10W mat 50 MHz. See V. R. Esche 2 pp. AB 208 1952 . Cavitation can occur in the fluid at a power density above this threshold. To compare with the actual device the cross sectional area of the transducer was r 1.5 mm 7.1 10m. The power applied to each transducer was 143 mW giving a total of 8.1 10W m indicating operation was below the cavitation threshold. Cavitation was observed at the highest power setting of 23.8 dBm which corresponded to 241.1 mW delivered to each transducer or 1.3 10W m. This value was on the order of the reported cavitation threshold.

Positive controls were performed using a 20 kHz bench top ultrasonication system using both acoustic finger and acoustic cup configurations. For the acoustic finger experiments a 1 16 tip was inserted into a 2 mL microcentrifuge tube containing a 1 mL sample using 12 W of applied power and an 8 duty cycle as recommended by the manufacturer total process time 60 sec . During the experiment the sample container was submerged in an ice bath to dissipate heat generated by the acoustic transducer. In the acoustic cup configuration 100 L of sample in a closed 2 mL microcentrifuge tube was submerged into a water filled cup the base of which encapsulated a 1.8 flat acoustic transducer. During the experiment 58.5 W of power was applied at a 100 duty cycle total process time 21.5 minutes . Heat generated by the transducer was dissipated by circulating the water through a chiller for the duration of the experiment. No mechanical or chemical lysing agents where added to improve lysing efficacy.

Approximately 50 L of cell suspension was loaded into a 1 cc syringe and injected into a microfluidic cartridge through a short length of 0.030 mm ID 0.065 mm OD flexible silicone tubing using a syringe pump. A second syringe pump was used to withdraw the sample from the channel through a second length of tubing. A synthesized signal generator and an RF power amplifier were used to drive the piezoelectric transducers for all experiments. Power input was varied from 0 200 mW at 100 duty cycle and sample flow rates were varied from 10 25 L min to maximize lysing efficiency while avoiding excessive heat generation and acoustic cavitation during the experiments. The microfluidic system was flushed with 0.5 mL distilled water between experiments. Additional flow only experiments were performed to insure that cell lysis was not occurring through a shearing mechanism during the sample injection process.

The efficacy of the sonication platforms was further measured by comparing viable cell counts before and after treatment using the method of Miles and Misra for plate counts. See A. A. Miles and S. S. Misra 38 732 1938 . A serial 10 fold dilution of the sample was performed in sterile 1 PBS within ten minutes of the lysis experiments. Aliquots of 20 L were spotted in triplicate onto a plate count agar and incubated at room temperature for 24 hours. The percentage of viable cells was calculated using 100 C C C where Cis the average viable cell count prior to sonication and Cis the average viable cell count after sonication.

The microfluidic cartridge can also provide the necessary fluidics to mix the lysate in a downstream nucleic acid extraction portion. Preferably the extraction method can be integrated with a microfluidic cartridge is compatible the fluidic requirements for interfacing with the cell lysis portion and enables fast extraction time on the scale of a few minutes. shows exemplary nucleic acid extraction methods that can be integrated with cell lysis in a microfluidic cartridge. shows top view schematic illustrations of exemplary implementations of the cell lysis and the nucleic acid extraction portions in microfluidic cartridges. The microfluidic cartridges in can be reversibly coupled to a BAW transducer array similar to that shown in .

The silica matrix can be fabricated by injecting or patterning a sol gel matrix containing silica beads in the microchannel. Sol gel and silica bead matrices bind DNA RNA to their matrices through an electrostatic interaction. The silica beads provide a large surface area for selective binding of DNA while the sol gel serves as a silica based glue to hold beads in place during device operation. As an example DNA extraction microchannels were fabricated using wet etching of serpentine channels in borosilicate glass substrates. A sol gel silica bead matrix was introduced into the microchannels by injection into a closed microchannel. Tetraethyl orthosilicate TEOS based sol gel and beads 15 m diameter silica were mixed at a concentration of 200 mg of beads in 1 ml of sol gel. The chamber outlet was plugged 90 to allow some fluid to exit but confine a substantial amount of beads in the channel. The sol gel bead matrix was injected into the microchannel under pressure or vacuum to achieve high density packing. After filling the chamber was dried at 120 C. for 24 hours to lock the beads in place. Alternatively the DNA extraction matrix can be sprayed into an open microchannel having a coverslip removed. The aerosol spray method can produce reliable high surface area sol gel matrices with controllable pore sizes. A high surface area was advantageous for maximizing DNA extraction from a sample.

Samples of DNA were extracted from a sample solution containing 250 fmol of DNA. The extraction microchannel comprised a 10 20 mm long packed bed in a 150 m wide 150 m high and 332 mm long channel. The DNA bound to the silica matrix allowed excess lysate e.g. proteins to pass through as waste. As shown in fractions were collected during the entire process to isolate the DNA from excess lysate. The extraction efficiency was 40 .

Several commercially available kits employ silica or polystyrene beads with a paramagnetic core for rapid facile isolation of DNA from a complex mixture of cellular lysate. For example the ChargeSwitch gDNA Mini Bacteria Kit manufactured by Invitrogen reversibly binds DNA to the bead surface in response to a change in solution pH. Following cell lysis DNA is bound to the surface of the 1 m ChargeSwitch magnetic beads by lowering the solution pH to 

A cartridge was fabricated to test the recovery of genomic DNA strain B following the bead based assay. Modifications to the basic lysis cartridge presented in the previous section were made to integrate ChargeSwitch beads for DNA extraction and purification following acoustic lysis. The acoustic portion of the cartridge lysed the cellular samples and immediately captured nucleic acid to the surface of magnetic beads. The magnetic core of the beads allowed confinement within the extraction portion of the microchannel as the buffer was exchanged to remove non nucleic material. Two removable diameter magnets were employed for selective trapping of beads within the channel during the assay. Passive binding and release of DNA occurred as the reagent solutions were passed over the bead reservoir. Alternatively a piezoelectric transducer can be positioned under the bead reservoir for active mixing of the beads with the reagent solution and to acoustically drive DNA off of the bead surface. Approximately 1 10beads were loaded into the channel for DNA extraction. Assays buffers consisted of a binding buffer pH

A microfluidic cartridge incorporating a NAFION coated gold electrode was fabricated based on the electric field nucleic acid extraction method of Lee et al. The channels were 100 m in height and 500 m in width. The electrodes were fabricated by evaporating 200 of Cr and 5000 of Au onto 100 m thick Mylar discs. The estimated thickness of the NAFION film was 12 m. The cartridges were manufactured in a fashion similar to the devices described previously with the addition of a NAFION coated gold electrode with an available surface area of 141 mmfor DNA binding. For each experiment 50 L of genomic DNA in 10 mM TE buffer 10 mM Tris CI pH 7.4 1 mM EDTA pH 8.0 was injected into the microfluidic channel at a 50 L min flow rate. Once the solution entered the channel a positive voltage was applied to the NAFION coated electrode to bind DNA. The voltage was applied until all of the solution has run through the channel at which time the power supply was turned off. 50 L of 10 mM TE buffer was then loaded into the channel at a 50 L min flow rate and a positive voltage was once again applied to the electrode to keep the DNA bound until the entire volume of buffer had exited the channel. For the elution step 50 L of 10 mM TE buffer was loaded into the channel at a 50 L min flow rate and a negative voltage was applied to release bound DNA from the electrode. The eluent from each step was collected and analyzed for DNA content using an assay. The voltages for binding and elution of DNA were chosen based on electric field calculations and ranged from 2.5 V to 7.92 V. As shown in the amount of DNA was determined during the bound wash and elution steps for two applied voltages. The total injected DNA was 90 ng in which 54.77 ng bound at a voltage of 5.92 V. The extraction efficiency increased to 66.3 when based on the DNA that actually bound and eluted from the NAFION coated electrodes.

The present invention has been described as a method and device for cell lysis by localized acoustic pressure. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

