---

title: Method and apparatus for machine-to-machine communication registration
abstract: Methods and apparatus are disclosed for Machine to Machine (M2M) communication registration. The methods provide single and periodic registration and may be device or network based. The devices in the system may be divided into groups. A single device member may perform the basic access steps for the group. Other devices may receive related access information on a control channel and use the information to access the system. The devices may send data, get updates, and then go to sleep. Internet addresses may be released or maintained. During a control cycle, the devices may wake up and listen to the control channel for any paging messages. Individual devices or the entire group may access the system. During a reporting cycle, all the devices may wake up and access the system to connect to the M2M system to upload data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08750145&OS=08750145&RS=08750145
owner: InterDigital Patent Holdings, Inc.
number: 08750145
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101110
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Nos. 61 263 578 filed Nov. 23 2009 61 263 758 filed Nov. 23 2009 61 263 980 filed Nov. 24 2009 and 61 263 724 filed Nov. 23 2009 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein.

Machine to Machine M2M communication also referred to as machine type communications or MTC may be seen as a form of data communication between entities that do not necessarily need human interaction.

In Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP system optimization for M2M communication may be faced with major challenges such as the explosion of M2M devices and their increased traffic load i.e. increased number of operational and signaling procedures potential cost of upgrades versus efficient re use of existing infrastructure and existing access mechanisms shortage of unique device identifiers congestion control and the like. System performance and capacity to support certain number of subscribers may depend on the number of simultaneous computations supported by the infrastructure which are triggered by various subscriber activities and subsequent system procedures.

Methods and apparatus are disclosed for Machine to Machine M2M communication also referred to as machine type communications or MTC registration. The methods provide single and periodic registration and may be device or network based. The devices in the system may be divided into groups. For example it may be based on geographic location. A single device member may perform the basic access steps for the group. Other devices may receive all the related access information on a control channel and use the information to access the system. The devices may send their data get any updates and then enter a sleep cycle. Internet addresses may be released or maintained. Two wake up cycles may be provided one for control and one for uploading information a reporting cycle . During the control cycle the devices may wake up and listen to the control channel for any paging messages. Depending on the paging information individual devices or the entire group may access the system. In the reporting cycle all the devices may wake up and access the system to connect to the M2M system to upload data.

As shown in the communications system may include wireless transmit receive units WTRUs a radio access network RAN a core network a public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet and other networks though it will be appreciated that the disclosed embodiments contemplate any number of WTRUs base stations networks and or network elements. Each of the WTRUs may be any type of device configured to operate and or communicate in a wireless environment. By way of example the WTRUs may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals and may include user equipment UE a mobile station a fixed or mobile subscriber unit a pager a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a smartphone a laptop a netbook a personal computer a wireless sensor consumer electronics a machine type communication MTC device and the like.

The communications systems may also include a base station and a base station . Each of the base stations may be any type of device configured to wirelessly interface with at least one of the WTRUs to facilitate access to one or more communication networks such as the core network the Internet and or the networks . By way of example the base stations may be a base transceiver station BTS a Node B an eNode B a Home Node B a Home eNode B a site controller an access point AP a wireless router and the like. While the base stations are each depicted as a single element it will be appreciated that the base stations may include any number of interconnected base stations and or network elements.

The base station may be part of the RAN which may also include other base stations and or network elements not shown such as a base station controller BSC a radio network controller RNC relay nodes etc. The base station and or the base station may be configured to transmit and or receive wireless signals within a particular geographic region which may be referred to as a cell not shown . The cell may further be divided into cell sectors. For example the cell associated with the base station may be divided into three sectors. Thus in one embodiment the base station may include three transceivers i.e. one for each sector of the cell. In another embodiment the base station may employ multiple input multiple output MIMO technology and therefore may utilize multiple transceivers for each sector of the cell.

The base stations may communicate with one or more of the WTRUs over an air interface which may be any suitable wireless communication link e.g. radio frequency RF microwave infrared IR ultraviolet UV visible light etc. . The air interface may be established using any suitable radio access technology RAT .

More specifically as noted above the communications system may be a multiple access system and may employ one or more channel access schemes such as CDMA TDMA FDMA OFDMA SC FDMA and the like. For example the base station in the RAN and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access UTRA which may establish the air interface using wideband CDMA WCDMA . WCDMA may include communication protocols such as High Speed Packet Access HSPA and or Evolved HSPA HSPA . HSPA may include High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA and or High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA .

In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as Evolved UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access E UTRA which may establish the air interface using Long Term Evolution LTE and or LTE Advanced LTE A .

In other embodiments the base station and the WTRUs may implement radio technologies such as IEEE 802.16 i.e. Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX CDMA2000 CDMA2000 1X CDMA2000 EV DO Interim Standard 2000 IS 2000 Interim Standard 95 IS 95 Interim Standard 856 IS 856 Global System for Mobile communications GSM Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution EDGE GSM EDGE GERAN and the like.

The base station in may be a wireless router Home Node B Home eNode B or access point for example and may utilize any suitable RAT for facilitating wireless connectivity in a localized area such as a place of business a home a vehicle a campus and the like. In one embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.11 to establish a wireless local area network WLAN . In another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may implement a radio technology such as IEEE 802.15 to establish a wireless personal area network WPAN . In yet another embodiment the base station and the WTRUs may utilize a cellular based RAT e.g. WCDMA CDMA2000 GSM LTE LTE A etc. to establish a picocell or femtocell. As shown in the base station may have a direct connection to the Internet . Thus the base station may not be required to access the Internet via the core network .

The RAN may be in communication with the core network which may be any type of network configured to provide voice data applications and or voice over internet protocol VoIP services to one or more of the WTRUs . For example the core network may provide call control billing services mobile location based services pre paid calling Internet connectivity video distribution etc. and or perform high level security functions such as user authentication. Although not shown in it will be appreciated that the RAN and or the core network may be in direct or indirect communication with other RANs that employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT. For example in addition to being connected to the RAN which may be utilizing an E UTRA radio technology the core network may also be in communication with another RAN not shown employing a GSM radio technology.

The core network may also serve as a gateway for the WTRUs to access the PSTN the Internet and or other networks . The PSTN may include circuit switched telephone networks that provide plain old telephone service POTS . The Internet may include a global system of interconnected computer networks and devices that use common communication protocols such as the transmission control protocol TCP user datagram protocol UDP and the internet protocol IP in the TCP IP internet protocol suite. The networks may include wired or wireless communications networks owned and or operated by other service providers. For example the networks may include another core network connected to one or more RANs which may employ the same RAT as the RAN or a different RAT.

Some or all of the WTRUs in the communications system may include multi mode capabilities i.e. the WTRUs may include multiple transceivers for communicating with different wireless networks over different wireless links. For example the WTRU shown in may be configured to communicate with the base station which may employ a cellular based radio technology and with the base station which may employ an IEEE 802 radio technology.

The processor may be a general purpose processor a special purpose processor a conventional processor a digital signal processor DSP a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in association with a DSP core a controller a microcontroller Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Array FPGAs circuits any other type of integrated circuit IC a state machine and the like. The processor may perform signal coding data processing power control input output processing and or any other functionality that enables the WTRU to operate in a wireless environment. The processor may be coupled to the transceiver which may be coupled to the transmit receive element . While depicts the processor and the transceiver as separate components it will be appreciated that the processor and the transceiver may be integrated together in an electronic package or chip.

The transmit receive element may be configured to transmit signals to or receive signals from a base station e.g. the base station over the air interface . For example in one embodiment the transmit receive element may be an antenna configured to transmit and or receive RF signals. In another embodiment the transmit receive element may be an emitter detector configured to transmit and or receive IR UV or visible light signals for example. In yet another embodiment the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and receive both RF and light signals. It will be appreciated that the transmit receive element may be configured to transmit and or receive any combination of wireless signals.

In addition although the transmit receive element is depicted in as a single element the WTRU may include any number of transmit receive elements . More specifically the WTRU may employ MIMO technology. Thus in one embodiment the WTRU may include two or more transmit receive elements e.g. multiple antennas for transmitting and receiving wireless signals over the air interface .

The transceiver may be configured to modulate the signals that are to be transmitted by the transmit receive element and to demodulate the signals that are received by the transmit receive element . As noted above the WTRU may have multi mode capabilities. Thus the transceiver may include multiple transceivers for enabling the WTRU to communicate via multiple RATs such as UTRA and IEEE 802.11 for example.

The processor of the WTRU may be coupled to and may receive user input data from the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD display unit or organic light emitting diode OLED display unit . The processor may also output user data to the speaker microphone the keypad and or the display touchpad . In addition the processor may access information from and store data in any type of suitable memory such as the non removable memory and or the removable memory . The non removable memory may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM a hard disk or any other type of memory storage device. The removable memory may include a subscriber identity module SIM card a memory stick a secure digital SD memory card and the like. In other embodiments the processor may access information from and store data in memory that is not physically located on the WTRU such as on a server or a home computer not shown .

The processor may receive power from the power source and may be configured to distribute and or control the power to the other components in the WTRU . The power source may be any suitable device for powering the WTRU . For example the power source may include one or more dry cell batteries e.g. nickel cadmium NiCd nickel zinc NiZn nickel metal hydride NiMH lithium ion Li ion etc. solar cells fuel cells and the like.

The processor may also be coupled to the GPS chipset which may be configured to provide location information e.g. longitude and latitude regarding the current location of the WTRU . In addition to or in lieu of the information from the GPS chipset the WTRU may receive location information over the air interface from a base station e.g. base stations and or determine its location based on the timing of the signals being received from two or more nearby base stations. It will be appreciated that the WTRU may acquire location information by way of any suitable location determination method while remaining consistent with an embodiment.

The processor may further be coupled to other peripherals which may include one or more software and or hardware modules that provide additional features functionality and or wired or wireless connectivity. For example the peripherals may include an accelerometer an e compass a satellite transceiver a digital camera for photographs or video a universal serial bus USB port a vibration device a television transceiver a hands free headset a Bluetooth module a frequency modulated FM radio unit a digital music player a media player a video game player module an Internet browser and the like.

The RAN may include eNode Bs though it will be appreciated that the RAN may include any number of eNode Bs while remaining consistent with an embodiment. The eNode Bs may each include one or more transceivers for communicating with the WTRUs over the air interface . In one embodiment the eNode Bs may implement MIMO technology. Thus the eNode B for example may use multiple antennas to transmit wireless signals to and receive wireless signals from the WTRU

Each of the eNode Bs may be associated with a particular cell not shown and may be configured to handle radio resource management decisions handover decisions scheduling of users in the uplink and or downlink and the like. As shown in the eNode Bs may communicate with one another over an X2 interface.

The core network shown in may include a mobility management gateway MME a serving gateway and a packet data network PDN gateway . While each of the foregoing elements are depicted as part of the core network it will be appreciated that any one of these elements may be owned and or operated by an entity other than the core network operator.

The MME may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via an S1 interface and may serve as a control node. For example the MME may be responsible for authenticating users of the WTRUs bearer activation deactivation selecting a particular serving gateway during an initial attach of the WTRUs and the like. The MME may also provide a control plane function for switching between the RAN and other RANs not shown that employ other radio technologies such as GSM or WCDMA.

The serving gateway may be connected to each of the eNode Bs in the RAN via the S1 interface. The serving gateway may generally route and forward user data packets to from the WTRUs . The serving gateway may also perform other functions such as anchoring user planes during inter eNode B handovers triggering paging when downlink data is available for the WTRUs managing and storing contexts of the WTRUs and the like.

The serving gateway may also be connected to the PDN gateway which may provide the WTRUs with access to packet switched networks such as the Internet to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and IP enabled devices.

The core network may facilitate communications with other networks. For example the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to circuit switched networks such as the PSTN to facilitate communications between the WTRUs and traditional land line communications devices. For example the core network may include or may communicate with an IP gateway e.g. an IP multimedia subsystem IMS server that serves as an interface between the core network and the PSTN . In addition the core network may provide the WTRUs with access to the networks which may include other wired or wireless networks that are owned and or operated by other service providers.

Machine to Machine M2M communication also referred to as machine type communications or MTC may be used in a variety of areas. In the area of security M2M communication may be used in surveillance systems in backup of telephone landlines in the control of physical accesses e.g. to buildings and in car driver security. In the area of tracking and tracing M2M communication may be used for fleet management order management Pay As You Drive PAYD applications asset tracking navigation traffic information applications road tolling traffic optimization and steering. In the area of payment systems M2M communication may be used in point of sales vending machines customer loyalty applications and gaming machines. In healthcare M2M communication may be used for remotely monitoring vital signs supporting the elderly or handicapped in web access telemedicine points and in remote diagnostics. In the area of remote maintenance control M2M communication may be used in programmable logic controllers PLCs sensors lighting pumps valves elevator control vending machine control and vehicle diagnostics. In the area of metering M2M communication may be used in applications related to power gas water heating grid control and industrial metering. Additionally M2M communication based on machine type communication MTC technology may be used in areas such as customer service.

M2M communication may be used to implement PAYD systems in the area of car insurance. For example an insurance company may charge a driver of a car based on the usage of the car instead of on a fixed premium. To accomplish this the car is equipped with a M2M wireless transmit receive unit WTRU a GPS device and various other sensors that transmit the data to the insurance company. The M2M WTRU may include a Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC . The insurance company may set the rate charged to the driver based on the received data. The insurance company may have a contract with the operator of the wireless network by which the M2M WTRU communicates to allow the WTRU to use the operator s network.

In the area of tracking and tracing a car rental company may equip a car with a M2M WTRU to obtain information about the location of the car as it is driven. In the building industry for example M2M WTRUs may be used to keep track of expensive tools or other equipment. In the oil industry M2M WTRUs may be used to keep track of containers.

Many metering devices remain largely untouched after their installation. In some industries for example an installed meter may remain untouched for eight or more years after installation. In such a circumstance the IUCCs in the M2M WTRUs need to be protected. If this is not properly accomplished it may be possible for the connection to the utility to be cut thereby facilitating fraud. Additionally if the utility and or the operator of the wireless network by which the M2M WTRU communications change problems may occur. For example if the utility customer changes their utility supplier from one company to another the new utility supplier may not have a contract with the same network operator as the original utility supplier. This circumstance may be addressed by complex accounting mechanisms or the new utility company may need to send out a service person to install a new M2M WTRU or configure the installed M2M WTRU. However both of these approaches are costly and error prone.

Depending on its implementation M2M communication may be different from some current communication models. For example M2M communication may involve new or different market scenarios. M2M communications may also differ from some current technologies in that M2M communication may involve a large number of WTRUs and or may involve very little traffic per WTRU. Additionally relative to some current technologies M2M communication may involve lower costs and less effort to deploy.

M2M communications may take advantage of deployed wireless networks based on Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP technologies such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE and or other technologies such as those developed by the Institute for Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE and 3GPP2. M2M communications may use networks based on these technologies to deliver business solutions in a cost effective manner. In a circumstance involving ubiquitous deployment of wireless networks the availability of the wireless networks may facilitate and or encourage the deployment and use of M2M WTRUs. Additionally further enhancements to these technologies may provide additional opportunities for the deployment of M2M based solutions. Table 1 summarizes the above described implementations for MTC applications.

In addition one MTC device may perform registration for example an IMSI attachment procedure on behalf of the MTC device group. This MTC device may be referred to as an alpha MTC device. The alpha MTC device may be selected either by the network by polling each device separately or by sending a transmission sequence randomly each device selects a random number through a hashing algorithm to determine its transmission time by pre configurations during initial setup of the system and the devices or some combination thereof. The alpha MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like. In case of an alpha MTC device failure another MTC device may perform the alpha MTC device activities. Detection of an alpha MTC device failure may be performed by the network or by the MTC devices.

The periodic registration process is applicable once all MTC devices are powered up . Registration is done periodically based upon a wake up cycle sleep cycle . Once periodic registration has been initiated the MTC device determines if it is an alpha MTC device . If the MTC device is the alpha MTC device then radio resources may be obtained and the M2M x registration process may be initiated . Authorization and authentication of the alpha MTC device may then be performed .

The alpha MTC device then determines the success of the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes . If the M2M x registration process and or authorization and authentication process are not successful registration and authentication may be retried for a specified number of times . A new alpha MTC device may be designated after the specified number of retries has been exhausted . If the number of retries has been exhausted for the new alpha MTC device then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted. Alternatively if the number of retries for all designated alpha MTC devices has been exhausted then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted.

A group based P TMSI M2M x based IP addresses and user plane radio resource information may be obtained if the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes has been successful. The alpha MTC device may then use a URI to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . Control information updates are then obtained by the alpha MTC device . The control information may be any type of control information such as configuration data and the like.

In the case where the MTC device is the alpha MTC device the alpha MTC device waits for the last MTC device of the group to transmit its information to the M2M x server . After the last MTC device has transmitted or uploaded its information the alpha MTC device may release radio resources and release IP addresses . The alpha MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle .

If the MTC device is not the alpha MTC device then the MTC device may initiate the M2M state machine and listen to the control channel . Upon successful completion of the alpha MTC device registration each of the non alpha MTC devices may obtain the group based P TMSI M2M x based IP address and user plane radio resource information . As stated above each MTC device within the group of MTC devices may use the same radio resources and the same internet protocol IP addresses to transmit their data using the same packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI IMSI. Each non alpha MTC device then waits for its designated transmission time . The transmission time may be random pre configured polling function based on a hash function using its identifier and the like.

The non alpha MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non alpha MTC device to register with the M2M server . If registration may be needed then each non alpha MTC device may use a URI to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The non alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . If registration may not be needed then each non alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . Each non alpha MTC device may then update its control information and go into a sleep cycle . The sleep cycle may be followed by a wake up cycle after which the periodic registration process starts again. As described herein the wake up cycle may have control cycles and reporting cycles. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof.

In addition one MTC device may perform registration for example an IMSI attachment procedure on behalf of the MTC device group. This MTC device may be referred to as an alpha MTC device. The alpha MTC device may be selected either by the network randomly by pre configurations or some combination thereof. The alpha MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like. In case of an alpha MTC device failure another MTC device may perform the alpha MTC device activities. Detection of an alpha MTC device failure may be performed by the network or by the MTC devices.

The single registration process is applicable once all MTC devices are powered up . Once single registration has been initiated the MTC device determines if it is an alpha MTC device . If the MTC device is the alpha MTC device then radio resources may be obtained and the M2M x registration process may be initiated . Authorization and authentication of the alpha MTC device may then be performed .

The alpha MTC device then determines the success of the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes where x represents a counter. If the M2M x registration process and or authorization and authentication process are not successful registration and authentication may be retried for a specified number of times . A new alpha MTC device may be designated after the specified number of retries has been exhausted . If the number of retries has been exhausted for the new alpha MTC device then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted. Alternatively if the number of retries for all designated alpha MTC devices has been exhausted then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted.

A group based P TMSI M2M x based IP addresses and user plane radio resource information may be obtained if the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes has been successful. The alpha MTC device may then use a URI to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . Control information updates are then obtained by the alpha MTC device . The control information may be any type of control information such as configuration data and the like.

In the case where the MTC device is the alpha MTC device the alpha MTC device waits for the last MTC device of the group to transmit its information to the M2M x server . After the last MTC device has transmitted or uploaded its information the alpha MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but remains registered with the M2M operator . The alpha MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle .

If the MTC device is not the alpha MTC device then the MTC device may initiate the M2M state machine and listen to the control channel . Upon successful completion of the alpha MTC device registration each of the non alpha MTC devices may obtain the group based P TMSI M2M x based IP address and user plane radio resource information . As stated above each MTC device within the group of MTC devices may use the same radio resources and the same internet protocol IP addresses to transmit their data using the same packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI IMSI. Each non alpha MTC device then waits for its designated transmission time . The transmission time may be random pre configured polling function based on a hash function using its identifier and the like.

The non alpha MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non alpha MTC device to register with the M2M server . If registration may be needed then each non alpha MTC device may use a URI to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The non alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . If registration may not be needed then each non alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . Each non alpha MTC device may then update its control information and go into a sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a periodic wake up cycle . The MTC devices wake up during the periodic wake up cycle and may also listen to a control channel for system updates. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof. Polling by the network may be done using control channel signaling or using traffic channel in band signaling. The wake up cycle may have control cycles and reporting cycles. In control cycles where the MTC device groups wakes up the MTC devices may not have to register again with a 3GPP system control channel and may wait for any updates on the control channel. An IP address may or may not be allocated during the control cycle. Each individual MTC device may be updated using a paging broadcast message using IMSI P TMSI account numbers. If paged and instructed to connect an individual MTC device may perform system access requesting RRC connection and IP allocation to connect to the M2M Access Server M2M AS . In reporting cycles control may be performed using the traffic channel signaling on top of IP. For example if the system needs to perform maintenance operations software upgrades or download new information configuration then these operations may be done during the reporting period after or before the devices upload their data to the system. Individual MTC devices may be allocated different Local IP addresses within 3GPP for the duration of a reporting cycle. Additional IP addresses may be allocated in order to allow for multiple simultaneous accesses for the group to reduce the reporting time.

In particular each MTC device determines if the wake up cycle is a control cycle or a reporting cycle . If it is a control cycle the MTC device determines if a page broadcast message has been sent as discussed above . If a page broadcast message has not been sent then the MTC device goes back into the sleep cycle and waits for the next wake up cycle . If a page broadcast message has been sent the group identifier e.g. group MSISDN matches those of the group then the MTC device determines if it is a group page . If it is a group page broadcast then the MTC device is an alpha MTC device and if it is not a group page broadcast then the MTC device acts as an alpha MTC device . The information in the page broadcast may specify a single device or it may be addressed to the group. In the latter case the alpha device which may be previously configured would respond. Other devices not alpha would wait to start their transmission. This may depend on system setup configuration. In either case the alpha or acting alpha MTC device may then obtain radio resources obtain M2M x based IP address and obtain user plane radio resource information .

The alpha or acting alpha MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the alpha or acting alpha MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the alpha or acting alpha MTC device may use a URI to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the alpha or acting alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . The alpha or acting alpha MTC device waits for the last MTC device of the group to transmit . After the last MTC device has transmitted or uploaded its information the alpha or acting alpha MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but remains registered with the M2M operator . The alpha or acting alpha MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is an alpha MTC device then the alpha MTC device may then obtain radio resources obtain M2M x based IP address and obtain user plane radio resource information . The alpha MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the alpha MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the alpha MTC device may use a URI to perform M2M service registrations. The alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . The alpha MTC device then waits for the last MTC device of the group to transmit . After the last MTC device has transmitted or uploaded its information the alpha MTC device may then release radio resources and IP addresses but remains registered with the M2M operator . The alpha MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is a non alpha MTC device then the non alpha MTC device obtains user plane radio resource information . The non alpha MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non alpha MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then each non alpha MTC device may use a URI to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the non alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI . The non alpha MTC device may then go into a sleep cycle .

In addition a first MTC device may perform registration for example an IMSI attachment procedure on behalf of the MTC device group. The first MTC device may be selected either by the network randomly hash algorithms by pre configurations or some combination thereof. The first MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like. In case of first MTC device failure another MTC device may perform the first MTC device activities. Detection of first MTC device failure may be performed by the network or by the MTC devices. A last MTC device may be used to release radio resources and IP addresses maintain registration with the M2M operator and conclude the current cycle.

The registration process may be applicable once all MTC devices are powered up . Once registration has been initiated the MTC device determines if it is a first MTC device . If the MTC device is the first MTC device then radio resources may be obtained and the M2M x registration process may be initiated . Authorization and authentication of the first MTC device may then be performed . As described herein MTC devices may be separated into controlling master devices alpha and others. In this case there may be more than one master device one device to start the system access first MTC and another that acts to terminate the connections and release resources at the end of operation last device .

The first MTC device then determines the success of the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes . If the M2M x registration process and or authorization and authentication process are not successful registration and authentication may be retried for a specified number of times . A new first MTC device may be designated after the specified number of retries has been exhausted . If the number of retries has been exhausted for the new first MTC device then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted. Alternatively if the number of retries for all designated first MTC devices has been exhausted then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted.

A group based P TMSI M2M x based IP addresses and user plane radio resource information may be obtained if the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes has been successful. The first MTC device may then use a URI or uniform resource locator URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Control information updates are then obtained by the first MTC device . The control information may be any type of control information such as configuration data and the like. In this case since the first MTC device is not the last MTC device the first MTC device goes into a sleep cycle .

If the MTC device is not the first MTC device then the MTC device may initiate the M2M state machine and listen to the control channel . Upon successful completion of the first MTC device registration each of the non first MTC devices may obtain the group based P TMSI M2M x based IP address and user plane radio resource information . As stated above each MTC device within the group of MTC devices may use the same radio resources and the same internet protocol IP addresses to transmit their data using the same packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI IMSI. Each non first MTC device then waits for its designated transmission time . The transmission time may be random pre configured polling function based on a hash function using its identifier and the like. The non first MTC device may sleep until its designated transmission time.

The non first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non first MTC device to register with the M2M server . If registration may be needed then each non first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If registration may not be needed then each non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Each non first MTC device may then update its control information . If the non first MTC device is not last MTC device the non first MTC device may go into a sleep cycle . If the non first MTC device is the last MTC device then the last MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but remains registered with the M2M operator . The last MTC device may then go into a sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a periodic wake up cycle . The MTC devices wake up during the periodic wake up cycle and may also listen to a control channel for system updates. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof. Polling by the network may be done using control channel signaling or using traffic channel in band signaling. The wake up cycle may have control cycles and reporting cycles. In control cycles where the MTC device groups wakes up the MTC devices may not have to register again with a 3GPP system control channel and may wait for any updates on the control channel. An IP address may or may not be allocated during the control cycle. Each individual MTC device may be updated using a paging broadcast message using IMSI P TMSI account numbers. If paged and instructed to connect an individual MTC device may perform system access requesting RRC connection and IP allocation to connect to the M2M Access Server M2M AS . The M2M AS may also be referred to as a M2M gateway or MTC gateway. In reporting cycles control may be performed using the traffic channel signaling on top of IP. For example the MTC device may be connected to the server and reachable directly for any updates or maintenance operations. There may be no need to wait for another time to perform these operations. Individual MTC devices may be allocated different Local IP addresses within 3GPP for the duration of a reporting cycle.

In particular each MTC device determines if the wake up cycle is a control cycle or a reporting cycle . If it is a control cycle the MTC device determines if a page message has been sent as discussed above . If a page message has not been sent then the MTC device goes back into the sleep cycle and waits for the next wake up cycle . If a page message has been sent then the MTC device determines if it is a group page . If it is a group page then the MTC device is a first MTC device and if it is not a group page then the MTC device acts as a first MTC device . In either case the first or acting first MTC device may then obtain radio resources obtain M2M x based IP address and obtain user plane radio resource information .

The first or acting first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the first or acting first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the first or acting first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the first or acting first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The first or acting first MTC device may then go into the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is a first MTC device then the first MTC device may then obtain radio resources obtain M2M x based IP address and obtain user plane radio resource information . The first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. The first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The first MTC device may then go into the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is a non first MTC device then the non first MTC device obtains user plane radio resource information . The non first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then each non first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The non first MTC device may then go into a sleep cycle . If the non first MTC device is the last MTC device then the non first but last MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but remain registered with the M2M operator . If the non first MTC device is not the last MTC device then the non first MTC device may go into a sleep cycle.

In addition a first MTC device may perform registration for example an IMSI attachment procedure on behalf of the MTC device group. The first MTC device may be selected either by the network randomly hash algorithms by pre configurations or some combination thereof. The first MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like. In case of first MTC device failure another MTC device may perform the first MTC device activities. Detection of first MTC device failure may be performed by the network or by the MTC devices. A last MTC device may be used to release radio resources and maintain IP addresses and registration with the M2M operator.

The registration process may be applicable once all MTC devices are powered up . Once registration has been initiated the MTC device determines if it is a first MTC device . If the MTC device is the first MTC device then radio resources may be obtained and the M2M x registration process may be initiated . Authorization and authentication of the first MTC device may then be performed .

The first MTC device then determines the success of the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes . If the M2M x registration process and or authorization and authentication process are not successful registration and authentication may be retried for a specified number of times . A new first MTC device may be designated after the specified number of retries has been exhausted . If the number of retries has been exhausted for the new first MTC device then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted. Alternatively if the number of retries for all designated first MTC devices has been exhausted then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted.

A group based P TMSI M2M x based IP addresses and user plane radio resource information may be obtained if the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes has been successful. The first MTC device may then use a URI or uniform resource locator URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Control information updates are then obtained by the first MTC device . The control information may be any type of control information such as configuration data and the like. In this case since the first MTC device is not the last MTC device the first MTC device goes into a sleep cycle .

If the MTC device is not the first MTC device then the MTC device may initiate the M2M state machine and listen to the control channel . Upon successful completion of the first MTC device registration each of the non first MTC devices may obtain the group based P TMSI M2M x based IP address and user plane radio resource information . As stated above each MTC device within the group of MTC devices may use the same radio resources and the same internet protocol IP addresses to transmit their data using the same packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI IMSI. Each non first MTC device then waits for its designated transmission time . The transmission time may be random pre configured polling function based on a hash function using its identifier and the like. The non first MTC device may sleep until its designated transmission time.

The non first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non first MTC device to register with the M2M server . If registration may be needed then each non first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If registration may not be needed then each non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Each non first MTC device may then update its control information . If the non first MTC device is not last MTC device the non first MTC device may go into a sleep cycle . If the non first MTC device is the last MTC device then the last MTC device may release radio resources and maintain IP addresses and registration with the M2M operator . The last MTC device may then go into a sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a periodic wake up cycle . The MTC devices wake up during the periodic wake up cycle and may also listen to a control channel for system updates. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof. Polling by the network may be done using control channel signaling or using traffic channel in band signaling. The wake up cycle may have control cycles and reporting cycles. In control cycles where the MTC device groups wakes up the MTC devices may not have to register again with a 3GPP system control channel and may wait for any updates on the control channel. An IP address may or may not be allocated during the control cycle. Each individual MTC device may be updated using a paging broadcast message using IMSI P TMSI account numbers. If paged and instructed to connect an individual MTC device may perform system access requesting RRC connection and IP allocation to connect to the M2M Access Server M2M AS . The M2M AS may also be referred to as a M2M gateway or MTC gateway. In reporting cycles control may be performed using the traffic channel signaling on top of IP. Individual MTC devices may be allocated different Local IP addresses within 3GPP for the duration of a reporting cycle.

In particular each MTC device determines if the wake up cycle is a control cycle or a reporting cycle . If it is a control cycle the MTC device determines if a page message has been sent as discussed above . If a page message has not been sent then the MTC device goes back into the sleep cycle and waits for the next wake up cycle . If a page message has been sent then the MTC device determines if it is a group page . If it is a group page then the MTC device is a first MTC device and if it is not a group page then the MTC device acts as a first MTC device . In either case the first or acting first MTC device may then obtain radio resources and obtain user plane radio resource information .

The first or acting first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the first or acting first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the first or acting first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the first or acting first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The first or acting first MTC device may then go into the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is a first MTC device then the first MTC device may then obtain radio resources and obtain user plane radio resource information . The first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. The first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The first MTC device may then go into the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is a non first MTC device then the non first MTC device obtains user plane radio resource information . The non first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then each non first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The non first MTC device may then go into a sleep cycle . If the non first MTC device is the last MTC device then the non first but last MTC device may release radio resources and maintain IP addresses and registration with the M2M operator . If the non first MTC device is not the last MTC device then the non first MTC device may go into a sleep cycle.

In addition a first MTC device may perform a registration for example an IMSI attachment procedure on behalf of the MTC device group. The first MTC device may be selected either by the network randomly hash algorithms by pre configurations or some combination thereof. The first MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like. In case of first MTC device failure another MTC device may perform the first MTC device activities. Detection of first MTC device failure may be performed by the network or by the MTC devices. A last MTC device may be used to release radio resources and maintain IP addresses and registration with the M2M operator.

The registration process may be applicable once all MTC devices are powered up . Once registration has been initiated the MTC device determines if it is a first MTC device . If the MTC device is the first MTC device then radio resources may be obtained and the M2M x registration process may be initiated . Authorization and authentication of the first MTC device may then be performed .

The first MTC device then determines the success of the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes . If the M2M x registration process and or authorization and authentication process are not successful registration and authentication may be retried for a specified number of times . A new first MTC device may be designated after the specified number of retries has been exhausted . If the number of retries has been exhausted for the new first MTC device then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted. Alternatively if the number of retries for all designated first MTC devices has been exhausted then the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes may be aborted.

A group based P TMSI M2M x based IP addresses and user plane radio resource information may be obtained if the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes has been successful. The first MTC device may then use a URI or uniform resource locator URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Control information updates are then obtained by the first MTC device . The control information may be any type of control information such as configuration data and the like. In this case since the first MTC device is not the last MTC device the first MTC device goes into a sleep cycle .

If the MTC device is not the first MTC device then the MTC device may initiate the M2M state machine and listen to the control channel . Upon successful completion of the first MTC device registration each of the non first MTC devices may obtain the group based P TMSI M2M x based IP address and user plane radio resource information . As stated above each MTC device within the group of MTC devices may use the same radio resources and the same internet protocol IP addresses to transmit their data using the same packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI IMSI. Each non first MTC device then waits for its designated transmission time . The transmission time may be random pre configured polling function based on a hash function using its identifier and the like. The non first MTC device may sleep until its designated transmission time.

The non first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non first MTC device to register with the M2M server . If registration may be needed then each non first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If registration may not be needed then each non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Each non first MTC device may then update its control information . If the non first MTC device is not last MTC device the non first MTC device may go into a sleep cycle . If the non first MTC device is the last MTC device then the last MTC device may release radio resources and maintain IP addresses and registration with the M2M operator . The last MTC device may then go into a sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a periodic wake up cycle . The MTC devices wake up during the periodic wake up cycle and may also listen for MBMS or pre configured M2M IP broadcast or multicast channels for system updates. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof. Polling by the network may be done using control channel signaling or using traffic channel in band signaling. The wake up cycle may have control cycles and reporting cycles. In control cycles where the MTC device groups wakes up the MTC devices may not have to register again with a 3GPP system control channel and may wait for any updates on the control channel. An IP address may or may not be allocated during the control cycle. Each individual MTC device may be updated using a paging broadcast message using IMSI P TMSI account numbers. If paged and instructed to connect an individual MTC device may perform system access requesting RRC connection and IP allocation to connect to the M2M Access Server M2M AS . The M2M AS may also be referred to as a M2M gateway or MTC gateway. In reporting cycles control may be performed using the traffic channel signaling on top of IP. Individual MTC devices may be allocated different Local IP addresses within 3GPP for the duration of a reporting cycle.

In particular each MTC device determines if the wake up cycle is a control cycle or a reporting cycle . If it is a control cycle the MTC device determines if a page message has been sent as discussed above . If a page message has not been sent then the MTC device goes back into the sleep cycle and waits for the next wake up cycle . If a page message has been sent then the MTC device determines if it is a group page . If it is a group page then the MTC device is a first MTC device and if it is not a group page then the MTC device acts as a first MTC device . In either case the first or acting first MTC device may then obtain radio resources and obtain user plane radio resource information .

The first or acting first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the first or acting first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the first or acting first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the first or acting first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The first or acting first MTC device may then go into the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is a first MTC device then the first MTC device may then obtain radio resources and obtain user plane radio resource information . The first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. The first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The first MTC device may then go into the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle and the MTC device is a non first MTC device then the non first MTC device obtains user plane radio resource information . The non first MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each non first MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then each non first MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the non first MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . The non first MTC device may then go into a sleep cycle . If the non first MTC device is the last MTC device then the non first but last MTC device may release radio resources and maintain IP addresses and registration with the M2M operator . If the non first MTC device is not the last MTC device then the non first MTC device may go into a sleep cycle.

For illustration purposes four MTC device groups are shown and may be denoted as MTC device group MTC device group MTC device group and MTC device group . Each MTC device group may include multiple MTC devices. For example MTC device group may include MTC devices J MTC device group may include MTC devices K MTC device group may include MTC devices M and MTC device group may include MTC devices N. Each MTC device group may be associated with a cell identifier and a IMSI number. For example MTC device group may be associated with cell Y and IMSI s MTC device group may be associated with cell v and IMSI z MTC device group may be associated with cell q and IMSI p and MTC device group may be associated with cell 1 and IMSI x. also shows a M2M user that may be in communication with a M2M AS which in turn may be in communication with a core network . MTC device groups and may be in communication with CN .

Operationally the M2M user may send a request to the M2M AS for information from certain of the MTC devices . The request may be a periodic trigger event based trigger other like triggers or a combination thereof. In response to the M2M user the M2M AS may send a service request or trigger a time based event to the CN . The service request or trigger may include the list of cells or cell identifiers the list of IMSIs and a time window. For example the time window may be the time when the group wakes up and the transmission time is the time allocated to individual MTC for transmission after which it goes to sleep. The CN may then send a system page to individual cells with a group identifier such as the IMSI and may also include information to indicate which MTC device may be the master MTC device. As discussed herein the master MTC device may perform the IMSI attachment process on behalf of the MTC device group. The master MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like.

For illustration purposes four MTC device groups are shown and may be denoted as MTC device group MTC device group MTC device group and MTC device group . Each MTC device group may include multiple MTC devices. For example MTC device group may include MTC devices J MTC device group may include MTC devices K MTC device group may include MTC devices M and MTC device group may include MTC devices N. Each MTC device group may be associated with a cell identifier and a IMSI number. For example MTC device group may be associated with cell Y and IMSI s MTC device group may be associated with cell v and IMSI z MTC device group may be associated with cell q and IMSI p and MTC device group may be associated with cell 1 and IMSI x. also shows a M2M user that may be in communication with a M2M AS which in turn may be in communication with a core network . MTC device groups and may be in communication with CN .

Operationally the M2M user may send a request to the M2M AS to trigger control information updates . The request may be a periodic trigger event based trigger other like triggers or a combination thereof. In response to the M2M user the M2M AS may send a service request or trigger a time based event to the CN . The service request or trigger may include the list of cells or cell identifiers the list of IMSIs MTC device identifiers and a time window. The CN may then send a system page with a cell identifier a group identifier such as the IMSI and may also include the MTC device identifier.

In addition one MTC device may perform a registration for example an IMSI attachment procedure on behalf of the MTC device group. This MTC device may be referred to as a master MTC device. The master MTC device may be selected by the network. The master MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like. In case of a master MTC device failure another MTC device may perform the master MTC device activities. Detection of a master MTC device failure may be performed by the network by the master MTC device itself and or other MTC devices in or outside the group.

The registration process is applicable once all MTC devices are powered up . The network may send a system page that includes the identification of the master MTC device . Once registration has been initiated the MTC device determines if it is the master MTC device . If the MTC device is the master MTC device then radio resources may be obtained and the M2M x registration process may be initiated . Authorization and authentication of the master MTC device may then be performed .

The master MTC device then determines the success of the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes If the M2M x registration process and or authorization and authentication process are not successful registration and authentication may be retried for a specified number of times . The network may select another master MTC device by sending another system page with the new master MTC device .

A group based P TMSI M2M x based IP addresses and user plane radio resource information may be obtained if the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes has been successful. The master MTC device may then use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The master MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Control information updates are then obtained by the master MTC device . The control information may be any type of control information such as configuration data and the like.

In the event that the master MTC device is the last MTC device of the group to transmit its information to the M2M x server then the master MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but maintains its registration status with the M2M operator . The master MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle . In the event that the master MTC device is not the last MTC device then the master MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

If the MTC device is not the master MTC device then the MTC device may initiate the M2M state machine and listen to the control channel . Upon successful completion of the master MTC device registration each MTC device may obtain the group based P TMSI M2M x based IP address and user plane radio resource information . As stated above each MTC device within the group of MTC devices may use the same radio resources and the same internet protocol IP addresses to transmit their data using the same packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI IMSI. Each MTC device then waits for its designated transmission time . The transmission time may be random pre configured polling function based on a hash function using its identifier and the like. The MTC device may sleep until its transmission time.

The MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each MTC device to register with the M2M server . If registration may be needed then each MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If registration may not be needed then each non alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Each MTC device may then update its control information .

In the event that the MTC device is the last MTC device of the group to transmit its information to the M2M x server then the MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but maintains its registration status with the M2M operator . The MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle . In the event that the MTC device is not the last MTC device then the MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a periodic wake up cycle . The MTC devices wake up during the periodic wake up cycle and may also listen to a control channel for system updates. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof. Polling by the network may be done using control channel signaling or using traffic channel in band signaling. The wake up cycle may have control cycles and reporting cycles. In control cycles where the MTC device groups wakes up the MTC devices may not have to register again with a 3GPP system control channel and may wait for any updates on the control channel. An IP address may or may not be allocated during the control cycle. Each individual MTC device may be updated using a paging broadcast message using IMSI P TMSI account numbers. If paged and instructed to connect an individual MTC device may perform system access requesting RRC connection and IP allocation to connect to the M2M Access Server M2M AS . In reporting cycles control may be performed using the traffic channel signaling on top of IP. Individual MTC devices may be allocated different Local IP addresses within 3GPP for the duration of a reporting cycle.

In particular each MTC device determines if the wake up cycle is a control cycle or a reporting cycle . If it is a control cycle the MTC device determines if a page message has been sent as discussed above . If a page message has not been sent then the MTC device goes back into the sleep cycle and waits for the next wake up cycle . If a page message has been sent then the MTC device determines if it is a group page . If it is a group page then a master MTC device may be selected identified based on information in paging message or the MTC device may wait for a second page . If it is not a group page or a master MTC device has been selected then the MTC device which may be a master MTC device may then obtain radio resources M2M x based IP address and obtain user plane radio resource information .

The MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If the MTC device may be the last MTC device then the MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but maintains registration with the M2M operator . The MTC device may then enter the sleep cycle . If the MTC device is not the last MTC device then the MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle then a master MTC device may be selected identified based on information in paging message or the MTC device may wait for a second page . The MTC device which may be a master MTC device may then obtain radio resources M2M x based IP address and obtain user plane radio resource information .

The MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If the MTC device may be the last MTC device then the MTC device may release radio resources and IP addresses but maintains registration with the M2M operator . The MTC device may then enter the sleep cycle . If the MTC device is not the last MTC device then the MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

In addition one MTC device may perform a registration for example an IMSI attachment procedure on behalf of the MTC device group. This MTC device may be referred to as a master MTC device. The master MTC device may be selected by the network. The master MTC device may receive resources including radio resource controller RRC resources a packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI internet protocol IP addresses and the like. In case of a master MTC device failure another MTC device may perform the master MTC device activities. Detection of a master MTC device failure may be performed by the network by the master MTC device itself and or other MTC devices in or outside the group.

The registration process is applicable once all MTC devices are powered up . The network may send a system page that includes the identification of the master MTC device . Once registration has been initiated the MTC device determines if it is the master MTC device . If the MTC device is the master MTC device then radio resources may be obtained and the M2M x registration process may be initiated . Authorization and authentication of the master MTC device may then be performed .

The master MTC device then determines the success of the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes . If the M2M x registration process and or authorization and authentication process are not successful registration and authentication may be retried for a specified number of times . The network may select another master MTC device by sending another system page with the new master MTC device .

A group based P TMSI M2M x based IP addresses and user plane radio resource information may be obtained if the M2M x registration and or authorization and authentication processes has been successful. The master MTC device may then use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The master MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Control information updates are then obtained by the master MTC device . The control information may be any type of control information such as configuration data and the like.

In the event that the master MTC device is the last MTC device of the group to transmit its information to the M2M x server then the master MTC device may release radio resources but maintains IP addresses and its registration status with the M2M operator . The master MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle . In the event that the master MTC device is not the last MTC device then the master MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

If the MTC device is not the master MTC device then the MTC device may initiate the M2M state machine and listen to the control channel . Upon successful completion of the master MTC device registration each MTC device may obtain the group based P TMSI M2M x based IP address and user plane radio resource information . As stated above each MTC device within the group of MTC devices may use the same radio resources and the same internet protocol IP addresses to transmit their data using the same packet temporary mobile subscriber identity P TMSI IMSI. Each MTC device then waits for its designated transmission time . The transmission time may be random pre configured polling function based on a hash function using its identifier and the like. The MTC device may sleep until its transmission time.

The MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs each MTC device to register with the M2M server . If registration may be needed then each MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations . The URI may be based on M2M x account numbers. The MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If registration may not be needed then each non alpha MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . Each MTC device may then update its control information .

In the event that the MTC device is the last MTC device of the group to transmit its information to the M2M x server then the MTC device may release radio resources but maintains IP addresses and its registration status with the M2M operator . The MTC device then goes into a sleep cycle . In the event that the MTC device is not the last MTC device then the MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

The sleep cycle may then be followed by a periodic wake up cycle . The MTC devices wake up during the periodic wake up cycle and may also listen to a control channel or IP multicast for system updates. The wake up cycle may be scheduled by the network randomly by the MTC devices pre configured and combinations thereof. Polling by the network may be done using control channel signaling or using traffic channel in band signaling. The wake up cycle may have control cycles and reporting cycles. In control cycles where the MTC device groups wakes up the MTC devices may not have to register again with a 3GPP system control channel and may wait for any updates on the control channel. An IP address may or may not be allocated during the control cycle. Each individual MTC device may be updated using a paging broadcast message using IMSI P TMSI account numbers. If paged and instructed to connect an individual MTC device may perform system access requesting RRC connection and IP allocation to connect to the M2M Access Server M2M AS . In reporting cycles control may be performed using the traffic channel signaling on top of IP. Individual MTC devices may be allocated different Local IP addresses within 3GPP for the duration of a reporting cycle.

In particular each MTC device determines if the wake up cycle is a control cycle or a reporting cycle . If it is a control cycle the MTC device determines if a page message has been sent as discussed above . If a page message has not been sent then the MTC device goes back into the sleep cycle and waits for the next wake up cycle . If a page message has been sent then the MTC device determines if it is a group page . If it is a group page then a master MTC device may be selected identified based on information in paging message or the MTC device may wait for a second page . If it is not a group page or a master MTC device has been selected then the MTC device which may be a master MTC device may then obtain radio resources and user plane radio resource information .

The MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If the MTC device may be the last MTC device then the MTC device may release radio resources but maintains IP addresses and its registration with the M2M operator . The MTC device may then enter the sleep cycle . If the MTC device is not the last MTC device then the MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

If it is a reporting cycle then a master MTC device may be selected identified based on information in paging message or the MTC device may wait for a second page . The MTC device which may be a master MTC device may then obtain radio resources and obtain user plane radio resource information .

The MTC device may then check via its configuration data or the like if the M2M operator needs the MTC device to register with the M2M operator . If registration may be needed then the MTC device may use a URI or URL to perform M2M service registrations. In either case the MTC device may then access the M2M x server and upload data using the account based URI or URL . If the MTC device may be the last MTC device then the MTC device may release radio resources but maintain IP addresses and its registration with the M2M operator . The MTC device may then enter the sleep cycle . If the MTC device is not the last MTC device then the MTC device may enter the sleep cycle .

Although features and elements are described above in particular combinations one of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that each feature or element can be used alone or in any combination with the other features and elements. In addition the methods described herein may be implemented in a computer program software or firmware incorporated in a computer readable medium for execution by a computer or processor. Examples of computer readable media include electronic signals transmitted over wired or wireless connections and computer readable storage media. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM a register cache memory semiconductor memory devices magnetic media such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical media and optical media such as CD ROM disks and digital versatile disks DVDs . A processor in association with software may be used to implement a radio frequency transceiver for use in a WTRU UE terminal base station RNC or any host computer.

