---

title: Treating vascular events with statins by inhibiting PAR-1 and PAR-4
abstract: The present invention relates to new methods for treating and/or preventing vascular events by inhibiting G-coupled Protease Activating Receptor (PAR)-1 and/or PAR-4 with the administration of statins. In one embodiment, individuals who are at risk for vascular events, but have cholesterol levels (e.g., total cholesterol or Low Density Lipoprotein) in normal ranges, are treated with statins.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08232295&OS=08232295&RS=08232295
owner: Heartdrug Research, L.L.C.
number: 08232295
owner_city: West Friendship
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101129
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 811 563 filed on Mar. 29 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 842 716 entitled Treating Vascular Events with Statins by Inhibiting PAR 1 and PAR 4 by Victor L. Serebruany.

Coronary Heart Disease CHD is one of the most common diagnoses of hospital patients in the United States with over five million cases occurring yearly. High levels of bad cholesterol Low Density Lipoprotein LDL C total cholesterol Total C or triglycerides are often associated with increased incidence of CHD stroke and other vascular events. These patients are frequently treated with lipid lowering drugs such as statins. In certain aspects the biological mechanisms of these statins remain unclear.

However many individuals exist who have normal levels of bad cholesterol total cholesterol or triglycerides but still suffer from or are at risk for such vascular events. These vascular events pose serious problems to patients and the physicians who treat them. Physicians continue to search for better preventative and or curative treatments for vascular diseases.

Hence a need exists for new and improved treatment options for individuals who have vascular diseases particularly for those individuals having cholesterol levels in normal ranges. Additionally a need exists to determine the mechanisms underlying vascular disorders so that better therapies which target these patient types can be developed.

The present invention is based on the surprising discovery that statins a cholesterol lowering drug inhibit a G coupled Protease Activating Receptor PAR 1 and or PAR 4 e.g. platelet PAR 1 and or platelet PAR 4 . This newly discovered mechanism has led to new methods for treating individuals who have a vascular disease or who are at risk for developing such a disease.

Accordingly the present invention relates to methods for treating a vascular disorder in an individual by assessing the levels of PAR 1 PAR 4 or both. When the individual has an elevated level of PAR 1 PAR 4 or both then the method includes administering to the individual an effective amount of a statin to reduce the levels of PAR 1 PAR 4 or both.

The present invention also embodies methods for reducing a PAR 1 level a PAR 4 level or both in an individual by selecting an individual having an elevated PAR 1 level an elevated PAR 4 level or both and administering to the individual an effective amount of a statin to reduce the PAR 1 level the PAR 4 level or both. In one embodiment the present invention pertains to selecting individuals that also have total C levels LDL C levels or triglyceride levels that are not considered to be high e.g. in the normal or low ranges . More specifically the present invention includes individuals with a Total C level of less than about 200 mg dL e.g normal range is considered to be between about 60 mg dL and about 199 mg dL . Similarly the present invention further embodies individuals having LDL C levels that are less than about 130 mg dL e.g. normal range is between about 85 mg dL and about 129 mg dL . Yet the present invention can also be practiced on individuals having triglyceride levels of less than 150 mg dL e.g. a normal range is between about 30 mg dL and about 149 mg dL .

As described herein PAR 1 PAR 4 or both can be reduced by at least about 10 e.g. 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 as compared to a control. Examples of statins include but are not limited to atorvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin cerivastatin lovastatin simvastatin rosuvastatin pitavastatin and metabolites thereof. Effective amounts of statins include oral administration in an amount between about 5 mg and about 250 mg per day as further described herein.

The present invention in another embodiment relates to methods for treating an individual with a vascular disorder or preventing a vascular disorder in an individual who is as risk for developing one. This method is performed by selecting an individual that has a vascular disorder and a Total C level of less than 200 mg dL or a LDL C level of less than 130 mg dL or both and administering to the individual an effective amount of a statin to inhibit PAR 1 PAR 4 or both. Vascular disorders include but are not limited to myocardial infarction angina stroke pulmonary embolism transient ischemic attack deep vein thrombosis thrombotic re occlusion subsequent to a coronary intervention procedure heart surgery or vascular surgery peripheral vascular thrombosis Syndrome X heart failure and a disorder in which a narrowing of at least one coronary artery occurs. Statins are administered and PAR 1 and or PAR 4 are reduced as further described herein.

When statins inhibit PAR 1 and or PAR 4 statins in turn reduce or prevent thrombin generation. Consequently the present invention includes methods for reducing or preventing thrombin generation in an individual. The method involves selecting an individual that has elevated PAR 1 PAR 4 or both or selecting an individual that has a vascular disorder and a Total C level of less than 200 mg dL or a LDL C level of less than 130 mg dL or both. After the individual is selected the method includes administering to the individual an effective amount of a statin to inhibit PAR 1 PAR 4 or both. These steps reduce the amount of thrombin generation as compared to the amount of thrombin generation prior to administration.

Yet an additional embodiment includes methods for inhibiting PAR 1 PAR 4 or both in a cell by contacting the cell with an effective amount of a statin. This process can occur in vivo in vitro or ex vivo as further described herein.

The present invention relates to a new treatment for vascular disorders e.g. heart disease and stroke . In particular the present invention is based on the unexpected discovery that certain receptors known as G coupled Protease Activating Receptor PAR 1 and PAR 4 are inhibited by a statin a lipid lowering drug. Hence the present invention pertains to treating or preventing vascular disorders by administering a statin to inhibit PAR 1 PAR 4 or both.

Prior to the invention it had been understood that statins can be used to lower cholesterol levels by inhibiting HMG CoA 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase an enzyme thought to facilitate the synthesis cholesterol. However two surprising aspects of the invention exist. The first aspect is that statins in addition to inhibiting HMG CoA reductase also inhibit PAR 1 and or PAR 4 receptors. As such patients who have cholesterol levels in normal ranges but are at risk for heart disease or stroke e.g. vascular events can effectively be treated with statins. Second inhibiting PAR 1 PAR 4 or both with statins actually reduce the incidence of vascular events.

The present invention pertains to methods for preventing or treating an individual at risk for a e.g. one or more vascular event disease or disorder. The data described herein unexpectedly show that inhibiting PAR 1 and or PAR 4 reduce the severity of or prevent vascular events. Prevention of a vascular event condition disease or disorder e.g. thrombotic event condition disease or disorder refers to delaying or suppressing the onset of the vascular disorder or one or more of its symptoms. To treat an individual at risk for a vascular disorder means to alleviate ameliorate or reduce the severity of one or more of its symptoms.

Two phases of thrombotic events e.g. cardiovascular and or cerebrovascular events can exist an ischemic stage and a necrotic stage. A patient can suffer from ischemia in which a decrease of blood flow can occur. This decrease in blood flow causes a decrease in tissue oxygenation. After prolonged ischemia the tissue can undergo necrosis which is death of the tissue. Therefore patients who are at risk for a vascular event can exhibit elevated levels of ischemic markers and or necrosis markers.

An individual at risk for a vascular disorder refers to an individual with a history of vascular disease an individual experiencing at least one symptom of the disorder an individual having known risk factors e.g. gender weight associated with or caused by the vascular disorder an individual undergoing a vascular procedure or an individual who has tested positive for a vascular condition using a diagnostic test e.g. electrocardiogram cardiac catheterization stress test ultrasound techniques laboratory tests .

As described above an embodiment of the invention includes treating individuals who are at risk for vascular events because they manifest at least one symptom indicative of a vascular disorder event. Symptoms that are indicative of a coronary related vascular event for example include chest pain abnormal electrocardiograms elevated levels of ischemic markers necrosis markers or thrombin fibrin generation markers. Such markers include but are not limited to Creatine Kinase with Muscle and or Brain subunits CKMB D Dimer F1.2 thrombin anti thrombin TAT soluble fibrin monomer SFM fibrin peptide A FPA myoglobin thrombin precursor protein TPP platelet monocyte aggregate PMA and troponin. Individuals who are at risk also include those having a history of a vascular event e.g. disorder including Coronary Heart Disease CHD stroke or Transient Ischemic Attacks TIAs . A history of CHD can include for example a history of MI coronary revascularization procedure angina with ischemic changes or a positive coronary angiogram e.g. showing greater than about 50 stenosis of at least one major coronary artery .

The present invention also relates to methods for reducing the occurrence or severity of a vascular disorder in a patient who is at risk for such a disorder. Reducing the occurrence of a vascular disorder e.g. a cardiovascular and or cerebrovascular disorder refers to reducing the probability that a patient will develop the disorder or delaying the onset of the disorder. Reducing the severity of a vascular disorder refers to a reduction in the degree of at least one symptom of the disorder. The present invention embodies methods for preventing the onset of a vascular disorder in an individual having less than about a 130 mg dL LDL C level about a 200 mg dL of Total C or both by administering a statin.

A vascular disorder is an event disease or disorder that involves a thrombosis e.g. a thrombotic event or a narrowing of a blood vessel. A vascular disorder event occurs for example when a clot forms and lodges within a blood vessel. The blockage can fully block or partially block the blood vessel causing a vascular disorder. Thrombin generation refers to the activation expression or up regulation of thrombin which is involved in clot formation and an inductor of platelet activation. The amount of thrombin generation can be measured or assessed by certain markers known in the art. Examples of such thrombin generation markers include fibrinopeptide A prothrombin fragments 1 2 and thrombin antithrombin III complexes.

Thrombin is a potent serine protease that plays a central role in homeostasis following tissue injury by converting soluble plasma fibrinogen into an insoluble fibrin clot and by promoting platelet aggregation. In addition to these procoagulant effects thrombin also influences a number of cellular responses that play important roles in subsequent inflammatory and tissue repair processes. Thrombin influences the recruitment and trafficking of inflammatory cells and is a potent mitogen for a number of cell types including endothelial cells fibroblasts and smooth muscle cells. Thrombin also promotes the production and secretion of extracellular matrix proteins and influences connective tissue remodeling processes. There is increasing in vivo evidence that the pro inflammatory and pro fibrotic effects of thrombin play an important role in both normal tissue and vascular repair as well as in a number of pathological conditions associated with acute or persistent activation of the coagulation cascade including restenosis and neointima formation following vascular injury atherosclerosis pulmonary fibrosis and glomerulonephritis.

It has been determined that most of the cellular effects elicited by thrombin are mediated via a family of expressed PAR 1 receptors that are activated by limited proteolytic cleavage of the N terminal extracellular domain. The newly generated N terminus acts as a tethered ligand and interacts intramolecularly with the body of the receptor to initiate subsequent cell signaling events. When PAR 1 or PAR 4 is proteolytically cleaved the new amino terminus functions as a tethered ligand to initiate signal transduction and peptides derived from the new amino terminus thrombin receptor agonist peptides function as agonists for the uncleaved receptor. As defined herein thrombotic events include those involving thrombin formation. In one embodiment the present invention relates to methods of preventing or treating thrombin formation in individuals as described herein by administering a statin.

Vascular events diseases or disorders include cardiovascular diseases e.g. coronary heart disease myocardial infarction angina or a disease in which a narrowing of a blood vessel occurs in at least one major artery cerebrovascular diseases e.g. stroke or transient ischemic attacks vascular procedures e.g. thrombotic re occlusion subsequent to a coronary intervention procedure heart or vascular surgery or any other thrombotic event e.g. pulmonary embolism deep vein thrombosis or peripheral vascular thrombosis . Vascular disorders also include Syndrome X which is a disease that is associated with unidentified chest pain. Vascular disorders include those in which at least one major coronary artery exhibits greater than 50 stenosis.

Also administering a statin can result in a reduction of recurrent vascular events e.g. cardiovascular and or cerebrovascular events . Use of the methods described herein results in a reduction of at least about 10 e.g. 15 20 25 in the number of recurrent heart attacks cardiac deaths and or strokes.

In one aspect the present invention involves assessing the PAR 1 level the PAR 4 level or both to determine if the either or both levels are elevated. Individuals with elevated PAR 1 and or the PAR 4 levels can be at risk for vascular events. Individuals can have other risk factors for vascular events as further described herein. Administration of statins inhibits PAR 1 and or PAR 4 and levels of PAR 1 and or PAR 4 are reduced as compared to level s prior to administration of the statin. Controls and assessment of PAR 1 and or PAR 4 are further described herein. Statin administration prevents reduces or treats the vascular disorder.

A lipid profile is made up of a number of items including but not limited to High Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol HDL C Low Density Lipoprotein Cholesterol LDL C triglycerides and total Cholesterol Total C . Lipoproteins are complexes which contain both a lipid and protein. Most of the lipids in plasma are present as lipoproteins and are transported as such. Lipoproteins are characterized by their flotation constants e.g. densities . Various classes of lipoproteins exist and include HDLs and LDLs. LDLs are particularly rich in cholesterol esters.

Levels of cholesterol that are considered normal can vary and depend on factors such as the individual s health history the number of risk factors the individual has etc. The National Cholesterol Education Program NCEP Guidelines state that a Total C of greater than or equal to 200 mg dL and a LDL C of greater than or equal to 130 mg dL are considered borderline high. In one embodiment the present invention relates to administering a e.g. one or more statin to an individual with Total C and or LDL C level s that are not considered to be high or borderline high e.g. individuals with levels in normal ranges . For example a normal range of Total C is considered to be between about 60 mg dL and about 199 mg dL and LDL C is between about 85 mg dL and about 129 mg dL. As such the present invention embodies administering a statin to an individual having a Total C of less than about 200 mg dL e.g. between about 60 mg dL and about 199 mg dL and or a LDL C of less than about 130 mg dL e.g. between about 85 mg dL and 129 mg dL . Additionally the present invention embodies administering a statin to an individual with triglyceride levels in normal ranges e.g. administering a statin to an individual with a triglyceride level of less than 150 mg dL e.g. between about 30 mg dL and about 149 mg dL .

One embodiment of the invention includes administering a statin to an individual having a Total C and or a LDL C level in the upper end of the normal range. For example an individual having a LDL C level in the range of about 100 mg dL and about 129 mg dL is considered to be in the normal range but not optimal. Similarly an individual with a Total C in a range from about 170 mg dL to about 199 mg dL are also considered to be normal but not optimal. As such individuals at risk for a vascular event as described herein and have levels of LDL C or Total C in the upper portion of the normal range can benefit from the invention. Hence in one embodiment the present invention relates to administering a statin to an individual with a LDL C level of between about 100 mg dL and about 129 mg dL and or a Total C level of about 170 mg dL and about 199 mg dL. Similarly triglyceride levels that are on the upper end of the normal range include levels between about 100 mg dL and about 149 mg dL. The invention therefore embodies administering a statin to an individual at risk for a vascular event wherein the individual has a triglyceride level between about 100 mg dL and about 149 mg dL.

Lipoproteins levels and triglyceride levels are measured and assessed using routine methods known in the art. Commercially available kits and assays can be used to evaluate the levels of Total C HDL C LDL C and triglycerides.

The present invention relates to methods of reducing or preventing vascular events by administering to an individual an effective amount of a statin. The term statin refers to a e.g. one or more compound or metabolite thereof that inhibits HMG CoA 3 hydroxy 3 methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase an enzyme thought to facilitate the synthesis cholesterol. More particularly statins inhibit the conversion of HMG CoA reductase to mevalonate a precursor of sterols including cholesterol. Since the enzyme used to make cholesterol is blocked by the statin then less cholesterol is made. Cholesterol and triglycerides circulate in the bloodstream as part of lipoprotein complexes. Hence statins generally lower lipids in this way. Additionally and more importantly the data described herein demonstrate that statins also block or inhibit PAR 1 PAR 4 or both thereby reducing or preventing vascular events.

Examples of statins are atorvastatin e.g. Atorvastatin Calcium marketed under the trademark LIPITOR by Pfizer Inc. pravastatin e.g. Pravastatin Calcium marketed under the trademark PRAVACHOL by Bristol Myers Squibb fluvastatin e.g. Fluvastatin Sodium marketed under the trademark LESCOL by Novartis cerivastatin e.g. Cerivastatin Sodium marketed under the trademark BAYCOL by Bayer Corporation lovastatin e.g. Lovastatin marketed under the trademark MEVACOR by Merck Co. Inc. simvastatin e.g. Simvastatin marketed under the trademark ZOCOR by Merck Co. Inc. rosuvastatin e.g. Rosuvastatin Calcium marketed under the trademark CRESTOR by AstraZeneca Inc. pitavastatin Nissan Sankyo s nisvastatin NK 104 or itavastatin and metabolites thereof. The present invention encompasses statins that are currently used or those later discovered or formulated. Statins include biologically active portions groups or fragments of the statin that can inhibit PAR 1 or PAR 4.

Methods of making statins or isolating statins are known in the art. Statins can be made synthetically or isolated from a bacteria e.g. . Methods of making statins their chemical formulas and their properties are described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 3 983 140 e.g. mevastatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 231 938 e.g. lovastatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 346 227 e.g. pravastatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 448 784 e.g. simvastatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 450 171 e.g. simvastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 354 772 e.g. fluvastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 006 530 e.g. cerivastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 177 080 e.g. cerivastatin U.S. Pat. No. 4 681 893 e.g. atorvastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 273 995 e.g. atorvastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 385 929 e.g. atorvastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 686 104 e.g. atorvastatin U.S. Pat. No. 5 260 440 e.g. rosuvastatin and U.S. Pat. No. 5 011 930 e.g. pitavastatin .

One aspect of the invention as described herein includes administering a statin along with at least one other compound or composition that is used for treating the vascular condition a vascular treating compound . For an individual with a cardiovascular disease the statin can be administered together with aspirin heparin an ADP inhibitor or antagonist e.g. thienopyridine such as ticlopidine hydrochloride marketed under the trademark TICLID from Roche Laboratories or clopidogrel bisulfate marketed under the trademark PLAVIX from Bristol Myers Squibb and Sanofi GPIIb IIIa inhibitors marketed under the trademark REOPRO from Centocor Inc. INTEGRILIN from Millennium Pharmaceutical Inc. AGGRASTAT from Gilford Pharmaceutical or another statin. Individuals with cerebrovascular diseases for example can receive a statin together with TICLID PLAVIX or aspirin.

The present invention involves inhibiting PAR 1 PAR 4 or both. To determine if PAR 1 PAR 4 or both are inhibited one can assess or quantify these receptors. PAR 1 and or PAR 4 can be measured to determine whether an individual has elevated PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels which would indicate that treatment with a statin is needed. In some embodiments the present invention includes a specific step of assessing or measuring PAR 1 PAR 4 or both. Elevated PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels depend on the type of antibody used e.g. greater than about 20 for the WEDE 15 antibody and about 40 for the SPAN 12 antibody in log mean fluorescence .

The phrase PAR receptors refers to PAR 1 and or PAR 4 receptors. PAR receptor refers to PAR 1 or PAR 4. In certain embodiments the invention refers to PAR 1 and or PAR 4 receptors on the platelet.

A reduction in the PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels e.g. platelet PAR 1 and or platelet PAR 4 refers to a decrease in or an absence of one or both receptors as compared to levels prior to administration or as compared to a control as further described herein. Levels of one or both receptors can be decreased or reduced by at least about 10 e.g. 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 as compared to the level just prior to administration. Hence one can measure the presence absence or level of one or both of these receptors and compare the result against a control. For example one can obtain a suitable sample and compare the level of one or both of the receptors from previous time points e.g. prior to administration of the statin or during the onset of a vascular event disease or disorder . PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels decrease after administration of the statin as compared to the level during the onset of the vascular event. One can also measure PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels in an individual prior to the onset of a vascular event e.g. in a resting state or during a check up to determine the individual s baseline. Accordingly administration of a statin after the onset of a vascular disease decreases the levels of PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels as compared to those levels during the onset of the vascular disease to reduce the level s so that they are closer to baseline e.g. above at or below baseline but less than level s during the onset of the vascular disease .

The PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels assessed can also be compared to a standard or control obtained from normal individuals. In one example PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels can be assessed in a population of healthy individuals or individuals who have not had a vascular event disease or disorder. Such levels are referred to as a negative control. Conversely PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels can also be obtained from a pool of individuals who are undergoing a vascular event disease or disorder e.g. a positive control. After administration of a statin the level of PAR 1 PAR 4 or both decreases the level s get closer to the level of the negative control and farther from the positive control. The PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels decrease as compared to the levels during the onset of the vascular event disease or disorder. Hence the methods of the present invention include reducing or inhibiting PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels with administration of a statin wherein PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels are reduced or decreased as compared to those levels during the occurrence of the vascular event disease or disorder or immediately prior to the administration of a statin.

In another embodiment the present invention relates preventing the onset of a vascular event disease or disorder. An effective amount of at least one statin can be administered to prevent PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels from increasing or lessen PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels which would otherwise remain elevated without statin administration. For example an individual who is a risk for a vascular event disease or condition can take a statin on a daily basis or every other day to prevent PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels from increasing as compared to a control or baseline. Baseline levels of the activation state can be obtained prior to and or during the course of administration of a statin. The PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels can stay the same or can even decrease. Similarly PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels can be compared to a negative or positive control wherein upon administration of statin the levels are closer to the negative control than the positive control. However measured the PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels are prevented from increasing thereby preventing the occurrence of a vascular event disease or disorder.

The present invention also relates to reducing or inhibiting PAR 1 and or PAR 4 by contacting the platelets with a statin or metabolite thereof. This embodiment of the invention can be carried out in vivo in vitro or ex vivo. The method reduces PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels as compared to the level prior to contact of the statin or a metabolite thereof with the platelets.

Several suitable assays exist that measure the PAR receptors. Suitable assays encompass immunological methods such as radioimmunoassay flow cytometry enzyme linked immunosorbent assays ELISA chemiluminescence assays and assessment with a volumetric capillary cytometry system. Any method now known in the art or developed later can be used for measuring the PAR receptors.

The assays utilize antibodies reactive with the PAR receptors portions thereof or functional fragments thereof. The terms polyclonal and monoclonal refer to the degree of homogeneity of an antibody preparation and are not intended to be limited to particular methods of production.

In several of the embodiments immunological techniques detect PAR receptor levels by means of an anti PAR antibody i.e. one or more antibodies . The phrase anti PAR receptor antibody includes monoclonal MoAbs antibodies polyclonal antibodies and or mixtures thereof. For example these immunological techniques can utilize mixtures or a cocktail of polyclonal and or monoclonal antibodies.

Anti PAR antibodies can be raised against an appropriate immunogen such as isolated and or recombinant PAR receptors or portion thereof including synthetic molecules such as synthetic peptides . One can also raise antibodies against a host cell which expresses recombinant PAR receptors. Additionally cells expressing a recombinant PAR receptors such as transfected cells can be used as immunogens or in a screen for antibody which binds receptor. Examples of PAR receptor antibodies are WEDE 15 MoAbs PAR 1 and PAR 4 and SPAN 12 MoAbs PAR 1 and PAR 4 .

Techniques known in the art can be employed to prepare an immunizing antigen and to produce polyclonal or monoclonal antibodies. The art contains a variety of these methods see e.g. Kohler et al. 256 495 497 1975 and 6 511 519 1976 Milstein et al. 266 550 552 1977 Koprowski et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 172 124 Harlow E. and D. Lane 1988 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Cold Spring Harbor N.Y. 2 Supplement 27 Summer 94 Ausubel F. M. et al. Eds. John Wiley Sons New York N.Y. Chapter 11 1991 . Generally fusing a suitable immortal or myeloma cell line such as SP2 0 with antibody producing cells can produce a hybridoma. Animals immunized with the antigen of interest and preferably an adjuvant provides the antibody producing cell cells from the spleen or lymph nodes . Selective culture conditions isolate antibody producing hybridoma cells while limiting dilution techniques produce them. One can use suitable assays such as ELISA to select antibody producing cells with the desired specificity.

Other suitable methods can be employed to produce or isolate antibodies of the requisite specificity. Examples of other methods include selecting recombinant antibody from a library or relying upon immunization of transgenic animals such as mice which are capable of producing a full repertoire of human antibodies see e.g. Jakobovits et al. 90 2551 2555 1993 Jakobovits et al. 362 255 258 1993 Lonberg et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 545 806 Surani et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 545 807 .

Immunological assays or techniques can be employed to determine the presence absence or level of PAR receptors in a biological sample. In determining the amounts of a membrane bound and or soluble PAR receptors an assay generally includes combining the sample to be tested with an antibody having specificity for one or both of the PAR receptors under conditions suitable for formation of a complex between antibody and the PAR receptor s and detecting or measuring directly or indirectly the formation of a complex.

A sample can be obtained and prepared by a method suitable for the particular sample e.g. whole blood platelet rich plasma and select the assay format. For example suitable methods for whole blood collection are venipuncture or obtaining blood from an in dwelling arterial line. The container into which one deposits the blood can contain an anti coagulant such as CACD A heparin or EDTA.

One or more PAR receptors can be measured in a sample with or without platelets. To measure a soluble form of the PAR receptors the platelets are removed from the sample. A sample e.g. blood is collected and platelets are removed partially or completely from the sample for example by preparation of serum or plasma e.g. isolation of platelet poor plasma . Samples are processed to remove platelets within a time suitable to reduce artificial increases in soluble PAR receptors. Initiation of such processing within about one hour and preferably immediately is desirable. Samples can be further processed as appropriate e.g. by dilution with assay buffer . Additionally one can add a reagent which stabilizes and prevents in vitro platelet activation. Examples of these stabilizing reagents are apyrase and PGE.

Methods of combining sample and antibody and methods of detecting complex formation are also selected to be compatible with the assay format. Suitable labels can be detected directly such as radioactive fluorescent or chemiluminescent labels. They can also be indirectly detected using labels such as enzyme labels and other antigenic or specific binding partners like biotin. Examples of such labels include fluorescent labels such as fluorescein rhodamine CY5 APC chemiluminescent labels such as luciferase radioisotope labels such as P I I enzyme labels such as horseradish peroxidase and alkaline phosphatase galactosidase biotin avidin spin labels and the like. The detection of antibodies in a complex can also be done immunologically with a second antibody which is then detected.

One method for assessing PAR receptor levels is flow cytometry. Methods of flow cytometry for measuring platelets or PAR receptors are known in the art. Shattil Sanford J et al. Detection of Activated Platelets in Whole Blood using Activation Dependent Monoclonal Antibodies and Flow Cytometry Vol. 70 No 1 July 1987 pp 307 315 Scharf Rudiger E. et al. Activation of Platelets in Blood Perfusing Angioplasty damaged Coronary Arteries Flow Cytometric Detection Vol 12 No 12 December 1992 pp 1475 1487.

For example an assessment of one or more PAR receptors can be done. A sample comprising platelets is obtained from an individual. The sample is contacted with an antibody having specificity for one or both PAR receptors under conditions suitable for formation of a complex between an antibody and the PAR receptor s expressed. A fluorescent label is used to detect the complex formation either directly or indirectly. The in vivo affect of a statin is assessed by obtaining samples at particular time points e.g. a baseline during a vascular event after administration of a statin etc. as described herein and measuring the presence absence or level one or more PAR receptors.

For ex vivo assessment of the statins effect on a PAR receptor a level of a PAR receptor can be assessed by flow cytometry by first obtaining a sample that comprises platelets and then contacting the sample with a platelet activation agonist such as phorbol myristate acetate PMA ADP adenosine diphosphate thrombin collagen and or TRAP thrombin receptor activating peptide under conditions suitable for activation of platelets in the sample. The sample is in contact with the agonist preferably for a period of time effective to maximally activate the platelets. The sample is then subjected to a statin at particular concentrations. Then one contacts the samples with a composition that comprises an anti PAR antibody e.g. having a fluorescent label preferably in an amount in excess of that required to bind the PAR receptor expressed on the platelets under conditions suitable for the formation of labeled complexes between the anti PAR antibody and activated platelets. Then the formation of the complex in the sample is assessed e.g. detected or measured .

The sample can be divided to form controls. For example a portion of the sample can be maximally activated and not contacted with a statin. Also one can obtain a portion of the sample and not expose it to a platelet activation agonist nor the statin to determine a baseline level of the PAR receptors. See Exemplification for detailed description of the flow cytometry methods. This ex vivo method is not limited to flow cytometry but can also be used in other methods for assessing PAR receptor levels. Receptor expression is presented as Log mean fluorescence intensity.

In addition to using flow cytometry to measure a PAR receptor a radioimmunoassay can be employed. A PAR receptor can be assessed by a radioimmunoassay by first obtaining a suitable sample to be tested. The sample is contacted with an anti PAR antibody e.g. an anti PAR antibody comprising a radioactive label or an anti PAR antibody comprising a binding site for a second antibody that has a radioactive label preferably in an amount in excess of that required to bind the PAR receptors expressed on the platelets and under conditions suitable for the formation of labeled complexes between the anti PAR antibody and activated platelets. The formation of the complex in the samples is determined by detecting or measuring the radioactivity in the sample.

Detection of a PAR receptor in a suitable sample can also occur by employing ELISA methods. To determine a measurement of a PAR receptor using an ELISA assay in a suitable sample one contacts the sample with an anti PAR antibody and then measures the formation of a complex between the anti PAR antibody and the PAR receptor s in the sample. The PAR receptor s can be measured by direct indirect sandwich or competitive ELISA formats. An antibody can be conjugated with labels such as biotin and HRP streptavidin.

A solid support such as a microtiter plate dipstick bead or other suitable support can be coated directly or indirectly with an anti PAR antibody. For example an anti PAR antibody can coat a microtiter well or a biotinylated anti PAR MoAbs can be added to a streptavidin coated support. A variety of immobilizing or coating methods as well as a number of solid supports can be used and can be selected according to the desired format.

In one embodiment the sample or PAR receptor standard is combined with the solid support simultaneously with the detector antibody. Optionally this composition can be combined with one or more reagents by which detection is monitored. For example the sample such as PPP can be combined with the solid support simultaneously with a HRP conjugated anti PAR MoAbs or b a biotinylated anti PAR MoAbs and HRP streptavidin.

A known amount of the PAR receptor standard can be prepared and processed as described above for a suitable sample. This PAR receptor standard assists in quantifying the amount of PAR receptors detected by comparing the level of PAR receptors in the sample relative to that in the standard.

A physician technician apparatus or a qualified person can compare the amount of detected complex with a suitable control to determine if the levels are decreased. For example the level of a PAR receptor following a vascular intervention procedure can be compared with a basal level for the individual such as a level determined prior to or at the time of the procedure or with levels in normal individuals or suitable controls as described herein.

A variety of methods can determine the amount of PAR receptors in complexes. For example when HRP is used as a label a suitable substrate such as OPD can be added to produce color intensity directly proportional to the bound anti PAR MoAbs assessed e.g. by optical density and therefore to the PAR receptors in the sample. One can compare the results to a suitable control such as a standard levels of PAR receptors in normal individuals and baseline levels of PAR receptors in a sample from the same donor. For example the assay can be performed using a known amount of a PAR receptor standard in lieu of a sample and a standard curve established. One can relatively compare known amounts of the PAR receptor standard to the amount of complex formed or detected.

PAR 1 and or PAR 4 levels can be assessed using methods that are currently known in the art as well as those that are later discovered.

The statins used in the present invention can be administered with or without a carrier. The terms pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or a carrier refer to any generally acceptable excipient or drug delivery composition that is relatively inert and non toxic. Exemplary carriers include sterile water salt solutions such as Ringer s solution alcohols gelatin talc viscous paraffin fatty acid esters hydroxymethylcellulose polyvinyl pyrolidone calcium carbonate carbohydrates such as lactose sucrose dextrose mannose albumin starch cellulose silica gel polyethylene glycol PEG dried skim milk rice flour magnesium stearate and the like. Suitable formulations and additional carriers are described in Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences 17Ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. . Such preparations can be sterilized and if desired mixed with auxiliary agents e.g. lubricants preservatives stabilizers wetting agents emulsifiers salts for influencing osmotic pressure buffers coloring preservatives and or aromatic substances and the like which do not deleteriously react with the active compounds. Typical preservatives can include potassium sorbate sodium metabisulfite methyl paraben propyl paraben thimerosal etc. The compositions can also be combined where desired with other active substances e.g. enzyme inhibitors to reduce metabolic degradation. A carrier e.g. a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is preferred but not necessary to administer the compound.

The statin can be a liquid solution suspension emulsion tablet pill capsule sustained release formulation or powder. The method of administration can dictate how the composition will be formulated. For example the composition can be formulated as a suppository with traditional binders and carriers such as triglycerides. Oral formulation can include standard carriers such as pharmaceutical grades of mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine cellulose magnesium carbonate etc.

The statins used in the invention can be administered intravenously parenterally intramuscular subcutaneously orally nasally topically by inhalation by implant by injection or by suppository. The composition can be administered in a single dose or in more than one dose over a period of time to confer the desired effect. In one embodiment atorvastatin pravastatin fluvastatin cerivastatin lovastatin simvastatin rosuvastatin or pitavastatin can be administered orally in an amount between about 2 mg 100 mg daily e.g. 10 20 40 or 80 mg daily .

The actual effective amounts of compound or drug can vary according to the specific composition being utilized the mode of administration and the age weight and condition of the patient. For example as used herein an effective amount of the drug is an amount which reduces the platelet activation state. Dosages for a particular individual patient can be determined by one of ordinary skill in the art using conventional considerations e.g. by means of an appropriate conventional pharmacological protocol .

For enteral or mucosal application including via oral and nasal mucosa particularly suitable are tablets liquids drops suppositories or capsules. A syrup elixir or the like can be used wherein a sweetened vehicle is employed. Liposomes microspheres and microcapsules are available and can be used.

Pulmonary administration can be accomplished for example using any of various delivery devices known in the art such as an inhaler. See. e.g. S. P. Newman 1984 in Clarke and Davis eds. Butterworths London England pp. 197 224 PCT Publication No. WO 92 16192 PCT Publication No. WO 91 08760.

For parenteral application particularly suitable are injectable sterile solutions preferably oily or aqueous solutions as well as suspensions emulsions or implants including suppositories. In particular carriers for parenteral administration include aqueous solutions of dextrose saline pure water ethanol glycerol propylene glycol peanut oil sesame oil polyoxyethylene polyoxypropylene block polymers and the like. Ampules are convenient unit dosages.

The administration of the statin and the vascular treating compound can occur simultaneously or sequentially in time. The vascular treating compound can be administered before after or at the same time as the statin. Thus the term co administration is used herein to mean that the statin and the vascular treating compound will be administered at times to achieve a reduction or treatment of the vascular event or disease and inhibition of PAR 1 or PAR 4. The methods of the present invention are not limited to the sequence in which the statin and vascular treating compound are administered so long as the vascular treating compound is administered close enough in time to produce the desired effect of reducing the platelet activation state.

The study was designed as a prospective single blinded placebo controlled trial of 6 major statins currently available in the US. The study was approved by local institutional review boards. Written informed consent was obtained from all patients who were informed of the strict compliance rules and compensated for outpatient visits and blood draws. Patients aged 21 years were eligible if they had a documented evidence of coronary artery disease proved by coronary angiography .

Patients were excluded for a history of bleeding diathesis drug or alcohol abuse prothrombin time greater than 1.5 times control platelet count 

Blood samples were obtained with a 19 gauge needle by direct venipuncture and drawn into two 7 ml vacutainer tubes at room temperature containing 3.8 trisodium citrate. The vacutainer tube was filled to capacity and gently inverted 3 to 5 times to ensure complete mixing of the anticoagulant. The first 4 5 ml of blood were used for lipid profile analysis or discharged. All samples were labeled with coded number and analyzed by blinded technicians. Platelet studies were performed at baseline as well as at Week 4 and Week 6.

The blood citrate mixture 50 l was diluted with 450 l Tris buffered saline TBS 10 mmol l Tris 0.15 mol l sodium chloride and mixed by inverting an Eppendorf tube gently two times. The appropriate antibody was then added 5 l and incubated at 37 C. for 30 minutes after incubation 400 l of 2 buffered paraformaldehyde was added for fixation. The samples were analyzed on the FACScan flow cytometer Becton Dickinson San Diego Calif. calibrated to measure fluorescent light scatter. All parameters were collected using four decade logarithmic amplification. The data were collected in list mode files and then analyzed. The surface expression of platelet receptors was determined by flow cytometry using the following monoclonal antibodies cleaved WEDE15 and intact SPAN12 platelet thrombin PAR 1 PAR 4 receptors Beckman Coulter Brea Calif. and they were expressed as log mean fluorescence intensity.

The significance of differences between treatments arms was calculated by c2 and Fisher s exact tests for discrete variables and Wilcoxon rank sum test for continuous variables. The significance of differences between individual flow cytometric histograms was calculated using the Smirnov Kolgomorov test incorporated in the CELLQuest San Diego Calif. software. Statistical analyses were performed using SPSS E11.5 SPSS Inc. Chicago Ill. . To control for any baseline differences analysis of variance was used. All p values are 2 sided.

Seventy patients were screened in assigned and completed the six weeks study. There were no deaths serious adverse events or hospitalizations. Table 1 shows baseline pretreatment distribution of demographics risk factors clinical characteristics and concomitant medications in 6 statin and one control arms. There were no significant differences between the groups and concomitant medications were used fairly even.

Patients were assigned to 6 major statins or serve as a control group with no statin therapy. The brand and dose of statin was at physician discretion. Patients were assigned in each study arm until the cell is filled. Table 2 exhibit the frequency of different statin doses used in the index study

PAR 1 is a member of a novel gene family of G protein couples receptors. PAR 1 is a single polypeptide of 66 kDa with a thrombin cleavage site located near the extracellular N terminus. This receptor is expressed by human platelets and is responsible for attracting alpha thrombin to the platelet surface. The SPAN12 monoclonal antibody used in this study specifically reacts with PAR 1. It was found that a consistent and significant reduction of PAR 1 platelet expression in the statin treated patients independently of the brand of statin used.

More specifically the data on PAR 1 PAR 4 thrombin receptor expression in all groups are presented in Table 3. At baseline there was no difference in receptor expression. However 4 weeks of treatment with statins resulted in a significant inhibition of the activated epitope of PAR 1 PAR 4 platelet expression as measured by WEDE 15 monoclonal antibody. There was a slight rebound at week 6 but still significant inhibition was observed. The pattern of inhibition of non activated intact epitope measured with SPAN 12 antibody was delayed. For most groups it takes six weeks with the exception of simvastatin and pravastatin of therapy to develop the inhibition of the intact receptor.

The relevant teachings of all the references patents and or patent applications cited herein are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the scope of the invention encompassed by the appended claims.

