---

title: Touch input apparatus including image projection
abstract: A touch-based input system includes a screen and multiple projectors that project graphics onto the screen. A processor processes user interactions with the screen and generates touch data based upon the interactions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08816991&OS=08816991&RS=08816991
owner: Dedo Interactive, Inc.
number: 08816991
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100929
---
The present application is based on and claims the benefit of U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 247 964 filed Oct. 2 2009 the content of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In multitouch systems a user is able to provide input by touching or otherwise contacting multiple areas of a touch screen simultaneously. Multitouch systems provide for opportunities for new types of user interactions and experiences that have not been possible in single touch or non touch systems. Some multitouch systems have included frustrated total internal reflectance systems and capacitive systems.

Embodiments of the present invention pertain to a touch based input system that includes a screen and multiple projectors that project graphics onto the screen. A processor processes user interactions with the screen and generates touch data based upon the interactions.

These and various other features and advantages that characterize the claimed embodiments will become apparent upon reading the following detailed description and upon reviewing the associated drawings.

Embodiments of the present disclosure include systems and methods that may be utilized in multitouch environments. is a block diagram of one illustrative environment in which some embodiments may be incorporated. It should be noted however that is for illustration purposes only and that embodiments are not limited to any particular environment. Embodiments are illustratively incorporated in any multitouch environment.

A multitouch device driver communicates with multitouch device to obtain multitouch input information collected from a user. For instance multitouch device may collect input information that includes x axis coordinates and y axis coordinates for touch gestures. Device driver obtains that information from device . The input information is then passed along to a universal multitouch device driver . As those skilled in the art will recognize multitouch device drivers commonly have different types of outputs. For example the format or syntax of outputs may vary e.g. TUIO and HID . Also for example the outputs may have different types or amounts of information. For instance some multitouch devices only output x and y coordinates while other devices output x and y coordinates along with a change in x a change in y a width a height and an acceleration. Universal multitouch device driver is illustratively able to collect the outputs of many different types of device drivers and convert the outputs into a standardized or universal format. The output of universal driver is then transmitted or collected by one or more applications . Applications are illustratively multitouch applications. Several examples of multitouch applications are discussed later in this description. Embodiments are not however limited to only multitouch applications and also illustratively include single touch or no touch applications.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are illustratively practiced with any type of multitouch device. Several different types of systems and methods are able to collect multitouch information. Some common types of multitouch devices include those that detect touches utilizing capacitive screens and those that detect touches utilizing a vision based system. Some illustrative embodiments of multitouch devices are described below.

Device also includes a depth . Depth may be any value. In one embodiment for illustrative purposes only and not by limitation depth is twenty six inches. In at least certain embodiments of the present disclosure depths are able to be kept relatively short by utilizing multiple projectors and or low throw projectors to display graphics on screen . Embodiments may however have other configurations such as but not limited to systems that utilize only one projector and or those having longer depths .

Returning to shows that the light sources at the top of the screen and at the bottom of the screen are each spaced apart from each other by a distance and that the light sources at the top are offset from the light sources at the bottom by a distance . Distance is optionally one half of distance . This configuration along with the V shaped light beam shown in illustratively provides a uniform blanket of light in front of screen . In one particular embodiment for illustration purposes only and not by limitation distance is twelve and a half inches and distance is six and one quarter inches.

As is shown in device has several pairs of sensors . This illustrates that device supports multiple people interacting with the device simultaneously. In the specific example shown in device has four pairs of sensors . Embodiments may of course have more or fewer pairs of sensors including no sensors. shows that device has a height and a width . Height and width include any values and embodiments can be made to be any desired size to support the simultaneous use by any number of people. In one embodiment for illustration purposes only height is ninety inches and width is between nine and eighteen feet.

Device further optionally has multiple barcode scanners and multiple RFID readers . Scanners may be useful for certain applications . For instance in the case of application being a flight scheduling application barcode scanner can be used to scan a boarding pass a confirmation e mail etc. RFID readers can similarly be used along with applications . Readers could for example be used to read credit card information or to read user identification information. The user identification information could be used to log into an application .

In one embodiment the screen of device is surrounded on all four of its sides by light sources . is a simplified schematic drawing showing screen and light sources in more detail. Screen includes a transparent material e.g. glass or plexiglass and many small reflectors e.g. small pieces of aluminum or chrome embedded and disbursed throughout material . Reflectors illustratively have random orientations such that they reflect light in all directions. In one embodiment light source is a ribbon of light emitting diodes . In one specific example for illustration purposes only and not by limitation diodes are three quarter inch infrared LEDs. Embodiments are not however limited to any particular type of light source. Light source generates light e.g. IR light that is transmitted through transparent material and is reflected by reflectors . Light source is illustratively chosen such that light is transmitted throughout the entire volume of the screen i.e. throughout its entire width by height by thickness .

In device is shown as having only one projector and one imaging camera . In other embodiments device may have multiple projectors and or multiple imaging cameras as is needed. Additionally multiple devices are illustratively connected together and function as a single unit. For instance up to five devices are optionally connected together and function as a single unit.

The multitouch devices shown in the previous figures have been vision based multitouch systems in that they detect touches utilizing optical imaging. Embodiments of the present disclosure are not however limited to only vision based systems. Embodiments are illustratively incorporated in or practiced with any type of multitouch device. illustrates another type of multitouch system a capacitive system .

In the example shown in a multitouch capacitive screen overlay is positioned in front of a television or monitor . In another embodiment the multitouch capability and display device are not separate pieces and are illustratively integrated into one unit. A control system e.g. a computer is communicatively coupled to television monitor and to multitouch screen overlay . Control system generates graphical output that is transmitted to and displayed on television monitor . A user interacts with the graphics on television monitor by touching capacitive screen overlay . Overlay then sends multitouch output back to control system that indicates the user s touches. Control system then uses the multitouch output to update its graphics and sends the updated graphics back to television monitor .

It is also worth noting that any number of multiple multitouch systems are illustratively communicatively coupled together and work to run applications. illustrates one example of such an environment. The environment in has three multitouch devices a wall type device in a living room a table type device in the living room and a second wall type device in a bedroom. Devices are illustratively coupled to each other through an intranet router and are also coupled to the internet .

In one embodiment the screen of table device has multiple windows windows and window . Window illustratively includes television programming or guide information such as but not limited to a listing of television stations and an indication of what programs will be on the stations at different times and dates. Windows are illustratively television program windows. For example a user may select four different programs from guide window and each of the four programs is displayed in its own window . The user could then control what is being displayed on the screens of the wall type devices and . For instance a user could touch one of windows and push or flick it in the direction of one of the wall devices and the program being displayed in the window would then be displayed on the wall device. In another embodiment table device generates audio output for headphones and the selection of one or more of windows generates one or more channels of headphone audio output i.e. the audio corresponding to the television program being displayed in the selected windows . Additionally the environment shown in may have personal video recording capability and a user is able to control the recording and playing of video utilizing the multiple multitouch devices. For example for illustration purposes only and not by limitation a user could touch the screen of table device to pause or rewind the program being displayed on wall device .

The multiple multitouch device environment in is not however limited to running any particular application and is illustratively used in running any application. Other illustrative applications include making or placing phone calls making or placing video calls using optional cameras and controlling various aspects of the home e.g. temperature garage door making drawings or doodles doing homework shopping or ordering e.g. ordering a pizza surfing the internet and playing video games.

As was previously mentioned in reference to multitouch device drivers commonly output their touch information in different formats or syntax. Their various types of outputs may also have different kinds of information. For example one multitouch device driver may only output an x and a y coordinate of a touch and another device driver may have x and y coordinates as well as a change in x and a change in y i.e. dx dy . These varying forms of multitouch output can make implementing multitouch applications difficult and or costly. For example if an application developer wants to make a multitouch application that can be used on multiple different types of multitouch devices he may have to make and maintain several different versions of the same application with each of the versions being specially tailored to accommodate for a particular device driver.

In one aspect of the present disclosure a universal multitouch driver is provided that eliminates or reduces the need to specially tailor applications to multiple types of device drivers. The universal multitouch driver is able to receive and interpret the outputs of multiple different types of device drivers. The universal multitouch driver then converts the output it receives into a standardized format such that regardless of the format or type of information that it receives it consistently outputs multitouch information in the same format and having the same type of information. Consequently multitouch application developers do not have to make or maintain multiple versions of multitouch applications to implement an application across multiple types of multitouch devices. Instead developers only need to make applications that are able to use the multitouch information from the universal multitouch driver.

At block the universal multitouch driver obtains the touch data from the device driver. In one embodiment the device driver has an application programming interface and the universal driver communicates with that interface to retrieve the data. In another embodiment the device driver automatically sends the data to the universal driver. Embodiments are not limited to any specific manner of obtaining the data.

At block the universal multitouch driver optionally stores the data. For instance the universal multitouch driver optionally stores the data to a volatile e.g. DRAM or non volatile e.g. flash or hard disk drive memory.

At block the universal multitouch driver calculates any missing parameters. As was mentioned previously different device drivers do not always output the same types of information. One device driver may for example only output a touch identifier an x axis coordinate a y axis coordinate a width and a height. Universal multitouch driver optionally retrieves the data stored at block and uses the current information and the stored information to generate a full set of touch data parameters i.e. the touch identifier x y dx dy w h and m . Alternatively or in addition to calculating missing parameters the universal multitouch driver may fill in one or more missing parameters with a default value. For instance if the device driver does not provide a width or a height the universal driver illustratively uses a default value for those parameters e.g. 0 or 1 .

At block the universal multitouch driver formats or packages the touch data including any calculated or default values into a standardized format. In one embodiment the standardized format follows the User Datagram Protocol or UDP network protocol. In another embodiment the standardized format follows the Extensible Markup Language or XML rules. In yet another embodiment a universal multitouch driver formats the touch data and packages it using multiple different formats simultaneously e.g. it packages the same touch data in both UDP and XML simultaneously . Embodiments are not however limited to any particular standardized format.

At block the universal multitouch driver transfers the standardized touch data to one or more multitouch applications. Embodiments are not limited to any particular method of transferring the data. For instance the universal multitouch driver may send the data to the application or alternatively the application may retrieve the data from the universal multitouch driver. In one specific example for illustration purposes only and not by limitation universal multitouch driver sends UDP formatted data to the UDP port and XML formatted data to the TCP port . Also as was previously alluded to the universal multitouch driver may optionally transfer data in multiple ways simultaneously e.g. it sends data to both port and simultaneously .

At block the multitouch application utilizes the standardized user touch data that it received from universal multitouch driver. The process then illustratively repeats itself and returns to block where a user interacts with a multitouch screen.

The methods and the universal multitouch drivers described above illustratively help to reduce problems associated with implementing multitouch applications across multiple types of multitouch devices having various types of drivers. Instead of making and maintaining multiple versions of the same application developers only need to make and maintain one version of any given application. It should be noted however that embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to multitouch systems or environments having universal multitouch drivers. Embodiments are illustratively practiced without a universal multitouch driver and applications illustratively receive touch data directly from device drivers. It should also be noted that in systems having a universal multitouch driver the universal multitouch driver is optionally bypassable. For instance in a situation in which the data from the device driver is already in a suitable format for an application the data may bypass the universal multitouch driver and go directly to the application.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also illustratively include a number of multitouch applications. These applications may be practiced in environments such as those previously discussed. The applications are however not limited to any particular environment and may also be practiced in environments different than those previously discussed.

The first application that will be discussed is illustratively an Application Launcher application. As will become more clear shortly it is used to manage other applications on a multitouch device. and illustrate various states of Application Launcher and and illustrate multitouch gestures that may be used along with Application Launcher and the other applications disclosed herein.

Application menu illustratively has multiple icons that correspond to other applications that may be ran on the multitouch device. In the example shown in application menu includes icons corresponding to or representing six applications. They are a Chat and Group Collaboration application a Finger Painting application a Falling Debris Game application a Duck Shot Game application a Text Messaging application and a Flight Scheduler application . Each of applications are discussed in greater detail below. In the example shown in the figures the applications have text based icons. However in another embodiment the icons are graphical icons that provide some indication of the corresponding applications e.g. a picture of a plane for a flight scheduling application .

It is worth mentioning again that in an embodiment that the Chat and Group collaboration application as well as the rest of the applications described in this specification have multitouch capabilities. The applications illustratively support the use of multitouch gestures such as but not limited to those shown in and . This allows for windows backgrounds and any object within an application to be manipulated or controlled by the multitouch gestures. For instance windows can be increased or decreased in size or rotated utilizing multitouch gestures.

Window in further includes a drawing button that enables users to communicate by drawing images on their multitouch screens. Upon selection of button the user interface shown in is illustratively displayed. Interface includes a drawing window . Window has a multitouch shared drawing area . Drawing area is a shared object in that the same image of area is displayed on the multitouch screens of each of the users logged into the application i.e. users can see what other users draw . Window further optionally has multiple buttons that provide additional features. Buttons may include features that are useful in drawing in area . For instance buttons may include a button to draw in area in a pencil or pen format a button to draw in area with a paint brush format and or a button to draw in area with a spray paint format.

Interfaces and include a plurality of color selection buttons . A user illustratively selects one or more of the colors. The selected color is then activated and when a user touches painting area it paints with the selected color. Interfaces and may also have additional buttons such as but not limited to a clear button to erase the painting drawing in area and or a closing button to terminate the application.

The second window in user interface is a user input window . In the example shown in the figure the user input window is a QWERTY keyboard that has multitouch capability e.g. a user could touch the Shift key and a letter key to type the capitalized version of the letter . A user illustratively utilizes the multitouch QWERTY keyboard displayed on the screen to fill out fields and in the text messaging window . User input window is not however limited to only QWERTY keyboards and illustratively includes any other type of input mechanism that can collect the required information from a user.

As was previously mentioned all of the windows in all of the multitouch applications discussed in this specification have multitouch capabilities such as but not limited to resizing and rotating windows. In the case of the Text Message application for example both the user input window and the text messaging window are able to be resized rotated moved etc. utilizing multitouch gestures.

In addition to showing a graphical representation of the user s flight information interface may also include a window that shows the user s flight information in text form. Window is shown in the figure as including the user s departure location destination location flight number gate number and date and time of the flight s departure. Window optionally includes any flight information e.g. meal information layover locations flight duration arrival time etc. .

Interface also includes several buttons a search for alternative flights button a weather button an information button and a customer service agent button . shows a window that is illustratively generated upon a user selecting the information button . Information window reports information about the user s flight. For instance in the example shown in the figure window states that the user s flight has been delayed because of weather traffic and mechanical issues. If the user s flight was on time with no issues window could illustratively state that the flight was on schedule or on time. Window optionally includes an additional flight search button and customer service agent button .

Finally a user is illustratively given weather information about his departure location his destination location or both upon selection of weather button labeled in . In one embodiment a new window is generated and the information is given in text form. In another embodiment the information is given in graphical form. For instance the map shown in the user interface is illustratively updated to include graphics that indicate the weather e.g. a sun a snow flake a rain drop a dark cloud etc. .

As has been described above embodiments of the present disclosure include multitouch devices drivers and applications that may have improved or useful features over existing multitouch devices drivers and applications. These various embodiments are illustratively practiced individually or in combination with each other. Also it is to be understood that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of various embodiments have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of various embodiments this detailed description is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail especially in matters of structure and arrangements of parts within the principles of the present disclosure to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.

