---

title: Predicting likelihood of a successful connection between unconnected users within a social network using a learning network
abstract: A system and method for suggesting love interests and friendships based on inferred information to users within a social network is disclosed. Data is retrieved from a database. The database includes data from users that achieved relationships. The data also includes a list of each user's connections, the user's activities on the social network and the user's interests. The data is input into a network and the network is trained to predict a likelihood of a successful connection. Data from unconnected users is retrieved and put into the trained network to predict a possible relationship. A connection suggestion is sent to the two unconnected users.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08595167&OS=08595167&RS=08595167
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08595167
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101130
---
The present invention relates to social networks. In particular the present invention relates to suggesting connections to users within a social network. Still more particularly the present invention relates to suggesting love interests and friendships based on inferred information to users within a social network.

Social networks are becoming an increasingly popular way for people to stay connected and develop new friendships. This increasing popularity of social networks has given rise to many social network services that have developed various ways users of the social network can communicate and stay connected. Users within a social network can send each other messages monitor other users activities on a daily basis share interests and discuss common topics. Social networking services have provided a great forum for users to remain in close contact despite geographic distance or uncoordinated schedules.

Some social networking services attempt to provide the ability to make new connections based on existing connections and mutual connections. For example if two users are connected to the same person a suggestion might be sent to the two users to connect with each other. The suggestions sent to the users in this example are the result of a direct comparison of the users social graphs. Thus if two users have a common friend or many common friends then perhaps those two users know each other or would like to know each other.

Other social networking services attempt to provide the ability to make new connections by connecting users who have similar interests. For example on line dating and match making services provide ways for users to connect with each other based on common and or similar interests. For example if one person likes horseback riding and going to the movies they may be interested in meeting another person who also likes horseback riding a going to the movies. In this example connection suggestions are the result of a comparison of the explicitly declared interests input by users.

Existing social network services therefore provide ways users can connect with each other through a comparison of users social graphs connections or users information. However absent the mutual connection or common interests correlations mentioned above two users who might end up forming a successful connection may never be connected.

The present invention overcomes the deficiencies and limitations of the prior art at least in part by providing a system and method for suggesting loves interests or friends based on inferred information.

The present invention provides a system for suggesting love interests and friendships based on inferred information to users within a social network. The system includes an inferred interest module and a storage device that stores information related to users of the social network. The inferred interest module retrieves data from a database. The database includes data of users that achieved relationships. The data also includes a list of each user s connections the user s activities on the social network and the user s interests. The system inputs the data into a network and trains the network to predict a likelihood of a successful connection. The system retrieves data from unconnected users and inputs the data into the trained network to predict a possible relationship. The system sends a connection suggestion to unconnected users based on the predictions.

In one embodiment data is retrieved from a database. The database includes data of users that achieved relationships. The data also includes a list of each user s connections the user s activities on the social network and the user s interests. The data is put into a network and the network is trained to predict a likelihood of a successful connection. Data from unconnected users is retrieved and put into the trained network to predict a possible relationship. A second set of data is input into the system in order to validate the accuracy of the trained network. A connection suggestion is sent to unconnected users based on the prediction.

A system and method for suggesting love interests or friends based on signals is described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention can be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention. For example the present invention is described in one embodiment below with reference to user interfaces and particular hardware. However the present invention applies to any type of computing device that can receive data and commands and any peripheral devices providing services.

Reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions that follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as processing or computing or calculating or determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards flash memories including USB keys with non volatile memory or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus. Additional details illustrating the components of such an apparatus are explained in further detail below in the descriptions of .

The invention can take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment containing both hardware and software elements. In a preferred embodiment the invention is implemented in software which includes but is not limited to firmware resident software microcode etc.

Furthermore the invention can take the form of a computer program product accessible from a computer usable or computer readable medium providing program code for use by or in connection with a computer or any instruction execution system. For the purposes of this description a computer usable or computer readable medium can be any apparatus that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The medium can be an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system or apparatus or device or a propagation medium. Examples of a computer readable medium include a semiconductor or solid state memory magnetic tape a removable computer diskette a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a rigid magnetic disk and an optical disk. Current examples of optical disks include compact disk read only memory CD ROM compact disk read write CD R W and DVD.

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code will include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus. The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboards displays pointing devices etc. can be coupled to the system either directly or through intervening I O controllers.

Network adapters may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

Finally the algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear from the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

The illustrated invention of a social network system includes user devices that are accessed by users a social network server and a third party application server . In some embodiments the social network system includes a separate data storage that is coupled to the social network server via signal line . In the illustrated embodiment these entities are communicatively coupled via a network . The user devices in are used by way of example. While illustrates two devices the present invention applies to any system architecture having one or more user devices. For example the system may include millions of users and user devices and users may share user devices. Furthermore while only one network is coupled to the user devices the social network server and the third party application in practice any number of networks can be connected to the entities. Additionally for the purposes of illustration shows one social network server and one third party application server . However in other embodiments there may exist a plurality of social network servers and third party application servers .

The network enables communications between user devices the social network server and the third part application . Thus the network can include links using technologies such as Wi Fi Wi Max 2G Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS 3G Ethernet 802.11 integrated services digital network ISDN digital subscriber line DSL asynchronous transfer mode ATM InfiniBand PCI Express Advanced Switching etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP multi protocol label switching MPLS the User Datagram Protocol UDP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA Global System for Mobile communications GSM High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML etc. In addition all or some of links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as the secure sockets layer SSL Secure HTTP and or virtual private networks VPNs or Internet Protocol security IPsec . In another embodiment the entities can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above. Depending upon the embodiment the network can also include links to other networks.

In one embodiment of the present invention the network is a partially public or a wholly public network such as the Internet. The network can also be a private network or include one or more distinct or logical private networks e.g. virtual private networks Wide Area Networks WAN and or Local Area Networks LAN . Additionally the communication links to and from the network can be wireline or wireless i.e. terrestrial or satellite based transceivers . In one embodiment of the present invention the network is an IP based wide or metropolitan area network.

In some embodiments the network helps to form a set of online relationships between users such as provided by one or more social networking systems such as social network system including explicitly defined relationships and relationships implied by social connections with other online users where the relationships form a social graph. In some examples the social graph can reflect a mapping of these users and how they are related.

In one embodiment the inferred interest module is operable on the social network server . In another embodiment the inferred interest module is operable on a third party application server . Persons of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the inferred interest module can be stored in any combination on the devices and servers. In some embodiments the inferred interest module includes multiple distributed modules that cooperate with each other to perform the functions described below. Details describing the functionality and components of the inferred interest module will be explained in further detail below with regard to .

In the illustrated embodiment the user device is coupled to the network via signal line . The user is communicatively coupled to the user device via signal line . Similarly the user device is coupled to the network via signal line . The user is communicatively coupled to the user device via signal line . The third party application is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . The social network server is communicatively coupled to the network via signal line . In one embodiment the social network server is communicatively coupled to data storage via signal line .

In one embodiment data storage stores data and information of users of the social network system . Such stored information includes user profiles and other information identifying the users of the social network system . Examples of information identifying users includes but is not limited to the user s name contact information sex relationship status likes interests links education and employment history location political views and religion. In one embodiment the information stored in data storage also includes the user s list of current and past friends and the user s activities within the social network system such as anything the user posts within the social network system and any messages that the user sends to other users. In another embodiment which will be discussed below a storage device see is included in the social network server .

In one embodiment the user device is an electronic device having a web browser for interacting with the social network server via the network and is used by user to access information in the social network system . The user device can be for example a laptop computer a desktop computer a tablet computer a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile email device a portable game player a portable music player a portable music player or any other electronic device capable of accessing a network.

The processor may be any general purpose processor. The processor comprises an arithmetic logic unit a microprocessor a general purpose controller or some other processor array to perform computations provide electronic display signals to display . The processor is coupled to the bus for communication with the other components of the social network server . Processor processes data signals and may comprise various computing architectures including a complex instruction set computer CISC architecture a reduced instruction set computer RISC architecture or an architecture implementing a combination of instruction sets. Although only a single processor is shown in multiple processors may be included. The social network server also includes an operating system executable by the processor such as but not limited to WINDOWS MacOS X Android or UNIX based operating systems.

The memory holds instructions and data used by the processor . The instructions and or data comprise code for performing any and or all of the techniques described herein. The memory may be a dynamic random access memory DRAM device a static random access memory SRAM device flash memory or some other memory device known in the art. In one embodiment the memory also includes a non volatile memory such as a hard disk drive or flash drive for storing log information on a more permanent basis. The memory is coupled by the bus for communication with the other components of the social network server . In one embodiment the inferred interest module is stored in memory and executable by the processor .

The social network module is software and routines executable by the processor to control the interaction between the social network system storage device and the user device . An embodiment of the social network module allows users of user devices to perform social functions between other users of user devices within the social network system .

The storage device is any device capable of holding data like a hard drive compact disk read only memory CD ROM DVD or a solid state memory device. The storage device is a non volatile memory device or similar permanent storage device and media. The storage device stores data and instructions for processor and comprises one or more devices including a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a CD ROM device a DVD ROM device a DVD RAM device a DVD RW device a flash memory device or some other mass storage device known in the art. In one embodiment the storage device is used to store user profiles and other information identifying users of the social network system . In some embodiments such user data is stored in storage device . In other embodiments such user data is stored in data storage . In yet other embodiments the user data is stored both is storage device and data storage .

The input device may include a mouse track ball or other type of pointing device to input data into the social network server . The input device may also include a keyboard such as a QWERTY keyboard. The input device may also include a microphone a web camera or similar audio or video capture device. The graphics adapter displays images and other information on the display . The display is a conventional type such as a liquid crystal display LCD or any other similarly equipped display device screen or monitor. The display represents any device equipped to display electronic images and data as described herein. The network adapter couples the social network server to a local or wide area network.

The inferred interest module is software and routines executable by the processor to control the interaction between the social network system storage device and the user device . An embodiment of the inferred interest module retrieves data from storage device of the social network sever and uses that data to train a network to predict future relationships. The inferred interest module uses trained network predict future relationships and output connection suggestions to user device and users of the social network system . Details describing the functionality and components of the inferred interest module will be explained in further detail below with regard to .

As is known in the art a social network server can have different and or other components than those shown in . In addition the social network server can lack certain illustrated components. In one embodiment a social network server lacks an input device graphics adapter and or display . Moreover the storage device can be local and or remote from the social network server such as embodied within a storage area network SAN .

As is known in the art the social network server is adapted to execute computer program modules for providing functionality described herein. As used herein the term module refers to computer program logic utilized to provide the specified functionality. Thus a module can be implemented in hardware firmware and or software. In one embodiment program modules are stored on the storage device loaded into the memory and executed by the processor .

Embodiments of the entities described herein can include other and or different modules than the ones described here. In addition the functionality attributed to the modules can be performed by other or different modules in other embodiments. Moreover this description occasionally omits the term module for purposes of clarity and convenience.

An embodiment of the inferred interest module retrieves data from storage device of the social network server and uses that data to train a network to predict future relationships. Furthermore the inferred interest module uses a trained network to predict future relationships and output connection suggestions to users of the social network system . Some embodiments have different and or additional modules than those shown in . Moreover the functionalities can be distributed among the modules in a different manner.

The data retrieval module is software and routines executable by the processor to control the interaction between the inferred interest module and storage device . The data retrieval module of the inferred interest module is communicatively coupled to storage device via signal line and retrieves data contained in storage device via signal line . The data that is retrieved from storage device includes information about users of the social network system . Such information includes but is not limited to the user s identifying information relationship status likes interests links education and employment history location political views religion and other information related to the user. The information also includes the user s list of friends and the user s activities within the social network system . Such activities may include messages that the user sends to other users or comments that the user has posted in the social network system . In one embodiment the data retrieval module retrieves data from users who have achieved relationships in other words users who are directly connected within the social network system . According to an alternate embodiment the data retrieval module retrieves data from social network application or a user social network application programming interface API .

In one embodiment the data of the data retrieval module is sent to the data selection module via signal line . The data selection module is software and routines executable by the processor to perform data selection of the data within the inferred interest module . The data selection module selects data from connected users and pre processes the data into data sets examples of which are illustrated in . This data represents historical data and includes data of users who have achieved relationship in other words users who have a direct connection within the social network system .

Marriage and statuses indicating specific non platonic relationships would be used to predict possible love interests. According to one embodiment for the purposes of training the network a successful love connection is defined as a relationship status of married in a committed relationship engaged or other similar relationship. In some embodiments the duration of the relationship status is known. In such embodiments the duration of the relationship status is one parameter that effects a relationship score which will be discussed in more detail below.

In one embodiment the data set includes a relationship score. In some embodiments the relationship score is based on the interaction between the users. For example the relationship score increases as the number of messages a user sends to another user increases. As another example the relationship score also increases as the frequency of comments one user posts on another user s profile increases. Conversely the score decreases if the two users have no activity of interaction or if the two users are no longer connected.

According to one embodiment the duration of the relationship status is known and the score increases as the duration of the relationship increases. According to another embodiment the relationship score increases as the number of the same events attended increases. According to yet another embodiment the number of mutual friends between two users effects the relationship score the higher the number of mutual friends the higher the relationship score. According to one embodiment if two users have the same address the relationship score is increased. In another embodiment changes in the relationship status between two users effect the relationship score. For example if two users were previously in a relationship then no longer in that relationship and then subsequently in a relationship again the relationship score would decrease.

The training module is software and routines to train a network to predict future relationships based on historical data. The training module takes a collection of input data from the data selection module and estimates a relationship. The estimate is then compared to the actual relationship generating a training signal. That training signal is then used by an algorithm to strengthen or weaken input connections in the network . The network and its algorithms may include but is not limited to a Bayesian network a genetic algorithm decision tree learning association rule learning artificial neural networks inductive logic programming support vector machines clustering and reinforcement learning. In one embodiment for example the training signal would be used to predict edges in the current graph that should exist but do not.

In one embodiment in order to be adequately and effectively trained the network analyzes the data sets and takes into consideration both the comparison of the users attributes and the relationship score. For example successful and closer friendships have higher relationship scores. In one embodiment the attributes are the input signals and the relationship score is a success indicator.

The suggestion output module is software and routines to control the interaction between the social network server and inferred interest module and utilize information from unconnected users to predict possible connections. The suggestion output module retrieves data from users who are not yet connected within the social network system via signal line from storage device . In one embodiment the suggestion output module applies the trained network created by the training module to predict possible connections and is connected to the training module via signal line .

In one embodiment if the network predicts that two users should connect a suggestion is sent to one user. In such embodiments in order to determine which user should receive the suggestion the suggestion output module looks at the users activity. In some embodiments the user who is more active shows more posts or sends more messages is sent the connection suggestion. In other embodiments if the network predicts that two users should connect a suggestion is sent to both users.

According to one embodiment the data retrieval selection and division steps mentioned above are performed by one module. For example according to such embodiments the data retrieval module selectively retrieves data from users who are already connected and pre processes the data into the data sets as illustrated in . According to this embodiment the data retrieval module divides the data into two sets to be input to the training module and validation module respectively. According to these embodiments the data selection module is therefore not needed.

The validation module is software and routines to validate the trained network created by the training module in order to confirm the prediction accuracy and generalization performance of the network . The validation module utilizes the data sets originally from storage device that has not been seen by the training module . For example in the embodiment where the data selection module divides the data into two sets the training module utilizes the first set of data while the validation module utilizes the second set of data. Based on its performance on the input data a criterion determines whether or not that model should be used i.e. the error generated as the output of the network is below a certain threshold. A small error would ensure a more accurate trained network . The suggestion output module applies the validated model created by the training module and validated by the validation module to predict possible connections.

Referring now to an embodiment of the method of the present invention will be described. Turning to a flow chart illustrating an embodiment of a method for suggesting connections in a social network system in accordance with the present invention is shown. In addition reference will be made to the various user interfaces generated by different components of the system as depicted in .

The method is performed by the inferred interest module and begins when data is retrieved from storage device by the data retrieval module . In one embodiment the data selection module performs data selection. The data selection module selects data from connected users and pre processes the data into data sets which include historical data of users who have achieved relationship in other words users who have a direct connection within the social network system . In one embodiment the selected data is divided into two sets one to be input into the training module and one to be input into validation module .

Subsequently selected data is input into the training module that trains a network to predict possible relationships based on inferred signals. The network and its algorithms may include but is not limited to a Bayesian network a genetic algorithm decision tree learning association rule learning artificial neural networks inductive logic programming support vector machines clustering and reinforcement learning.

In some embodiments where the data is divided into two sets a second set is optionally input into a validation module . The validation module uses the second set of data to validate the accuracy of the trained network . An inquiry is made as to whether the network has been properly trained. If the network has not yet been properly trained No addition data is input into the training module in order to continue training the network.

If the network has been successfully trained Yes additional data from users of the social network who are not yet connected is retrieved by the output suggestion module . The selected data is input into the trained network to predict relationships. If a possible relationship is found a connection suggestion is sent to a user device of the social network system .

The foregoing data information can be collected upon user consent for generating e.g. prediction models. In some implementations a user can be prompted to explicitly allow data collection. Further the user may opt in out of participating in such data collection activities. Furthermore the collected data can be anonymized prior to performing the analysis to obtain the various statistical patterns described above.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the present invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the present invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims of this application. As will be understood by those familiar with the art the present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. Likewise the particular naming and division of the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects are not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the present invention or its features may have different names divisions and or formats. Furthermore as will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the relevant art the modules routines features attributes methodologies and other aspects of the present invention can be implemented as software hardware firmware or any combination of the three. Also wherever a component an example of which is a module of the present invention is implemented as software the component can be implemented as a standalone program as part of a larger program as a plurality of separate programs as a statically or dynamically linked library as a kernel loadable module as a device driver and or in every and any other way known now or in the future to those of ordinary skill in the art of computer programming. Additionally the present invention is in no way limited to implementation in any specific programming language or for any specific operating system or environment. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the present invention which is set forth in the following claims.

