---

title: Seal assembly with anti-rotation pin for high pressure supercritical fluids
abstract: A seal assembly for sealing a machine with a first chamber and a second chamber is provided. A rotating shaft extends through the first and second chambers, and rotates therein. The seal assembly has a seal housing, a seal ring and a seal pin. The seal housing is positionable in the machine housing. The seal housing has a seal pocket extending into a fluid side thereof, and a housing receptacle extending into an inner diameter thereof at the seal pocket. The seal ring is positionable in the seal pocket of the seal housing for forming a seal therewith. The seal ring has a ring receptacle extending into an outer diameter thereof. The ring receptacle is positionable adjacent to the housing receptacle for defining a pin hole therebetween. The seal pin is loosely positionable in the pin hole whereby movement about the seal ring is accommodated while preventing rotation thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08794634&OS=08794634&RS=08794634
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08794634
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100915
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates generally to the field of machinery. More particularly the invention relates to techniques for sealing machinery.

Turbomachinery such as a turbine centrifugal pump compressor and or other machine is typically used to transfer energy between a rotating shaft and a fluid e.g. liquid or gas . Seals such as lip brush lift off floating labyrinth or other seals are often positioned about the rotating shaft to restrict the passage of fluid through the turbomachinery. Seals are often made of elastomeric abradable or other materials and may be subject to leakage wear vibration over heating etc. Moreover some turbomachinery is used in extreme operating conditions e.g. high vibration extreme contact e.g. involving high contact speeds or high density fluids such as supercritical CO2 or other supercritical fluids extreme environmental conditions e.g. high pressure high temperature high density etc. and or other extreme conditions. Such extreme conditions may increase machine malfunctions such as the instance of leakage about the seals seal failure and or vibrations resulting in bearing failure.

Various seals and or leakage properties have been described for example in Adolph Egli American Society of Mechanical Engineers Vol. 57 pp. 115 22 1935 Robert J. Bruckner Proceedings of ASME Turbo Expo 2009 Power for Land Sea and Air Orlando Fla. Jun. 8 12 2009 and Geza Vermes 1959 Series A pp. 161 69 April 1961 . Attempts have been made to address seal performance and or leakage as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 029 876 and in H.M. Martin Labyrinth Packing Engineering pp. 35 36 January 1908 and M. Selvaraji et al. 2007 ASME JSME Thermal Engineering. Summer Heat Transfer Conference Vancouver British Columbia Jul. 8 12 2007 .

Despite the previous advancements in seal technology there remains a need to provide techniques for effectively sealing machinery. It is desirable that such techniques assist in controlling leakage in even extreme conditions. It is further desirable that such seals may be usable in a variety of tolerances configurations and or applications. Preferably such techniques are capable of high durability flexible operation strength and or wear resistance and or otherwise enhanced operation. The present invention is directed at achieving such capabilities.

Presently preferred embodiments of the invention are shown in the above identified Figures and described in detail below.

The rotating shaft extends through the housing and the seal assembly . The rotating shaft rotates in both the high low pressure chambers . One or both ends of the rotating shaft may be provided with a rotating member . The rotating member may be for example a propeller fan turbine or other rotating mechanism not shown . One or both of the rotating members may be used to allow power to be transferred through housing from the high pressure chamber to the low pressure chamber or from the low pressure chamber to the high pressure chamber .

An end of the rotating shaft may be linked to other driven devices not shown such as an engine motor gear box compressor pump generator or other rotary driven device for activation thereof. In this manner the machine may transfer energy from the fluid in the high pressure chamber to such driven device using the rotating shaft . Alternatively the machine may transfer power via the rotating shaft through the housing and to a fluid device not shown located for example in high pressure chamber .

The seal system is configured to reduce and control the leakage of fluid through the machine and to accommodate movement within the machine caused by for example misalignment and shaft oscillation. The seal system may be positioned in the machine housing between or near the high low pressure chambers . The seal system also may be positioned with the rotating shaft extending therethrough. The seal system is preferably configured to reduce or control leakage between the high low pressure chambers as will be described more fully herein.

The seal assembly may be for example a floating self adjusting seal assembly. The seal assembly is secured about the rotating shaft but is configured to have sufficient movement within the housing to drift or float about the rotating shaft . This floating movement allows the seal assembly to self adjust or move about the rotating shaft in response to vibration wobble offset or other movement about the machine as will be described further herein.

The seal assembly is preferably usable in even extreme conditions. For example an extreme fluid such as a supercritical CO2 may be passed through the housing adjacent the seal assembly as indicated by the arrow. The machine may be operating in for example high pressure high density e.g. approaching or exceeding the density of water high shaft speed low leakage or other extreme conditions. The seal assembly may be configured for example to provide for low leakage in high pressure high density systems operating at high differential pressure of about 500 3000 psi 3 400 20 000 KPa or more across the seal and or in high temperature fluids on a high speed rotating shaft. The seal assembly may be operable for example with supercritical CO2 at pressures of up to 3000 psia 30 000 KPa with differential pressures of up to about 2800 psia 19 000 KPa and or at shaft speeds of up to about 75 000 rpm. Preferably the seal assembly may be configured with independent selection of clearances and or gaps to enhance operation in even the harshest conditions as will be described more fully herein.

As shown in the seal assembly includes a seal package . The seal package includes a seal housing a seal ring and a seal face plate . The seal housing is positionable in the housing of a machine such as the housing of the machine of . The seal package may be configured as a floating self adjusting shaft seal assembly that can accommodate extreme conditions such as misalignments off center rotation and vibrations. The seal package may also accommodate for example movement of the rotating shaft resulting from shaft vibrations or out of balance forces.

The seal housing may be a circular member made of steel or other inflexible metal or material with a high pressure side and a low pressure side . The seal housing is preferably made of a size and thickness to fit within the housing and to withstand the pressure forces generated by a differential pressure P difference between pressure P of the high pressure side and a pressure P of the low pressure side thereacross. The seal housing may also be provided with a hole therein for passage of the rotating shaft therethrough. A pocket may extend through the high pressure side and into the seal housing .

The seal ring is shown as being positioned in the pocket of the seal housing . The pocket is considered an oversized pocket larger than the seal ring positioned therein. The seal ring is preferably movable within the oversized pocket such that the seal ring floats therein. The seal ring may be a circular member made of a flexible material e.g. rubber or plastic abradable material e.g. graphite metallic and ceramic composite materials e.g. as FLUORSINT VESPEL TEFLON polyimide etc. and or other suitable material s . The selected material preferably enables the seal ring to deform within the oversized pocket and provide the desired seal capabilities. The seal ring may be made of for example graphite or other abrasion material that can withstand temperatures greater than 1000 degrees F. 810.78 degrees K and may act as a lubricant which does not melt or clog under extreme conditions. The seal ring may have a thickness and strength selected to withstand a differential pressure P thereacross. The seal ring has a hole therein for passage of the rotating shaft therethrough.

The rotating shaft may be provided with teeth that engage the seal ring about the hole . The rotating shaft can have any number of teeth on an outer surface thereof to provide a small contact area between the rotating shaft and the seal ring . The teeth may be configured to reduce contact loads and or heating through the machine and or seal assembly . Multiple teeth may be used to abrade into the seal ring a small amount and to reduce the leakage flow rate.

The seal face plate is positionable adjacent the high pressure side of the seal housing . The seal face plate may be a circular member made of steel or other inflexible metal or material . The seal face plate is depicted in as having a diameter less than the diameter of the seal housing but may optionally have a larger perimeter than that of the seal housing . Like the seal housing the seal face plate is preferably made of a size and thickness to fit within the machine housing and to withstand the pressure forces generated by a differential pressure P thereacross. The seal face plate has a hole therein for passage of the rotating shaft therethrough. The seal face plate is preferably positionable adjacent the seal housing to provide support to the seal ring and or to retain the seal ring within the oversized seal pocket .

The seal ring is positioned in the seal pocket of the seal housing with the rotating shaft extending therethrough. A back surface of the seal ring is pressed against a back wall of the pocket of the seal housing by the pressure differential P across the seal package . The urging of the seal ring against the seal housing preferably prevents bypass leakage between the seal ring and the oversized pocket of the seal housing as indicated by the radial arrow . The urging of the seal ring against the seal housing also preferably prevents seal leakage between the seal ring and the rotating shaft as indicated by the longitudinal arrow . In low pressure applications the seal ring may be an o ring seal. An o ring may optionally be provided in between seal housing and seal face plate to provide further sealing capability.

A shaft or vibrational or diametrical clearance c is preferably provided between the seal ring and the rotating shaft . The shaft clearance c is the space between an outer diameter OD of the rotating shaft and an inner diameter ID of the seal ring as provided in the following equation ID OD Equation 1 A gap g between the rotating shaft and the seal ring is one half of the shaft diametrical clearance as provided by the following equation 2 Equation 2

The shaft clearance defines a flow path for leakage of fluid from the high pressure chamber to the low pressure chamber of the housing . The shaft clearance is preferably small enough to minimize and control the leakage flow but large enough to accommodate radial motion vibrations off center spinning and other movement of the rotating shaft . This shaft clearance may be selected to define the effective flow area and or flow rate for leakage through the seal package . Typically this shaft clearance is preferably selected to be small. For example the shaft clearance may be set at about 0.0015 inches 0.0381 mm for a 0.5 inch 12.7 mm outer diameter OD the rotating shaft . The total leakage may be essentially controlled by defining the shaft clearance between the rotating shaft and the seal ring .

A seal or radial or leakage clearance c is preferably provided between the seal ring and the seal housing in the oversized pocket . The seal clearance is the space between an outer diameter OD of the seal ring and an inner diameter ID of the housing at the oversized pocket as provided in the following equation ID OD Equation 3

A seal gap g between the seal ring and the housing is one half of the shaft diametrical clearance as provided by the following equation 2 Equation 4

The seal clearance defines a space to permit movement of the seal ring within oversized pocket as vibration or other movement occurs in the seal package . The seal clearance is preferably sufficiently large to accommodate vibrations through the machine housing and the seal package . This seal clearance c between the seal ring and the housing is typically selected to be sufficiently large to avoid the magnitude of vibrations caused by out of balance forces through the machine and by the fundamental modes of the rotating shaft . The seal clearance defines a magnitude of vibration that may be tolerated. The seal clearance in the oversized pocket of the housing may be set at for example about 0.010 inches 0.254 mm .

The shaft clearance c and the seal clearance c may be independently adjusted to achieve the desired operability. For example the clearances may be selected to allow the seal package to vibrate while keeping the shaft clearance c very tight. In this manner the seal and shaft clearances may be selected to achieve the desired leakage and or vibrational clearances. The selected clearances preferably optimize the operation of the machine . Selected components of the seal package and related clearances may be operational for example for sealing spinning shafts in supercritical fluids or gas or liquid systems at high pressure. In some cases the selected configuration may be used to create low pressure regions in the machine to reduce windage losses and increase efficiency. The seal package may be especially useful in applications that require shaft seal systems with bearings that may accommodate relatively large radial displacements or vibrations.

Bearings may be provided to support the rotating shaft during operation. Bearing may be placed in the low pressure chamber to minimize windage friction losses. Bearing may also be placed in the high pressure chamber . One or more bearings may be positioned about the rotating shaft to provide support thereto. The bearings may be for example gas foil magnetic soft mounted tilt pad hydrodynamic or hydrostatic gas bearings.

The operation of the seal package in the machine may be affected by movement of the components of the seal package . A pin may optionally be positioned between the seal ring and the seal housing to prevent rotation thereof. As shown in pin is positioned in the shaft clearance between the seal ring and the seal housing and between the seal face plate and the oversized pocket of the seal housing . The seal ring and the seal housing may each be provided with a pin receptacle respectively for receiving the pin . The pin receptacle may be an inlet extending into the outer diameter of the seal ring . The pin receptacle may be an inlet extending into the inner diameter of the seal housing . The pin receptacles are preferably arcuate shaped inlets e.g. a semi circular cut out that conform to the shape of the pin .

The two pin receptacles in combination define an oversized pin hole for loosely receiving the pin . Preferably the pin receptacles are large enough to allow movement of the pin therein while still preventing rotation of the seal ring about the housing . The pin receptacle may extend over the width of the seal ring . The pin receptacle may extend over the width of the seal housing at the seal pocket. This configuration allows the seal pin to move between the seal housing and the seal face plate .

The seal pin may be used to loosely pin seal ring within the housing . Like the pocket the pin and housing receptacles may optionally be oversized to permit some room for movement of the pin therein. The pin is preferably positioned between the seal ring and the seal housing such that the seal ring is prevented from rotating in the seal housing while permitting the rotating shaft to move e.g. vibrate in two dimensions. This loosely pinned configuration is preferably capable of accommodating various movement of the system while maintaining the position and operation of the components of the seal package . While a pin is depicted a keyway or other locking mechanism that provides a loose configuration to prevent seal ring rotation during shaft rotation may be used.

As also schematically shown in the seal ring is positioned in the pocket of the seal housing and is movable therein. In this configuration the inner diameter ID of the housing is larger than the maximum effective diameter max OD to accommodate movement of the seal ring within the pocket . A safety factor of some dimension may be provided to the inner diameter ID of the housing to assure that the maximum effective diameter max OD is movable therein as set forth in the following equation ID max OD SF Equation 5 The safety factor SF may be provided to prevent contact between the outer diameter OD of the seal ring and the inner diameter ID of the housing .

As shown in a minimum gap min g remains between the outer diameter of seal ring and the inner diameter of housing such that no contact occurs therebetween. This configuration demonstrates that the oversize pocket is larger than the seal ring to permit the seal ring to float therein. The seal ring is positioned about the rotating shaft but movable within the oversized pocket . Because the minimum gap min g exists between the seal ring and the housing the seal ring is permitted to drift or float therein. The seal ring moves from a centered position within pocket as shown in to an offset position within pocket as shown in FIG. D. As also shown in the minimum gap min g remains between the seal ring and the housing to prevent contact therebetween.

The seal ring is permitted to float freely and self adjust to a desired position within the pocket . The seal ring and rotating shaft moves in response to vibration offset wobble or other movement about the machine . For example the seal ring is permitted to move within the pocket in response to wobble as depicted in . The seal ring may also shift in response to dynamic center offset as depicted in . The flexibility of the seal ring allows for further self adjustment. The seal ring may flex around the rotating shaft and within the pocket to create a seal therebetween to restrict the fluid flow. As the rotating shaft moves the seal ring repositions therewith thereby remaining in position to seal about the rotating shaft . This configuration is provided to enable components of the seal assembly to self adjust to operating conditions as they occur.

The method may further involve preventing rotation of the seal package as the rotating shaft rotates therein by loosely pinning at least a portion of the seal package. The pinning may involve positioning a pin loosely e.g. in a receptacle of the seal ring e.g. and a receptacle of the seal housing e.g. after aligning the two receptacles to be adjacent across from each other.

The method may further involve grippingly engaging the seal ring with teeth e.g. on an outer surface of the rotating shaft absorbing radial motion of the rotating shaft with the seal package absorbing vibration of the rotating shaft with the seal package and replacing at least a portion of the seal package. The steps may be performed in any order and one or more of the steps may be repeated as desired.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. For example the system may be provided one or more seal housings seal face plates and or seal rings in the machine housing and about the rotating shaft.

This description is intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of this invention should be determined only by the language of the claims that follow. The term comprising within the claims is intended to mean including at least such that the recited listing of elements in a claim are an open group. A an and other singular terms are intended to include the plural forms thereof unless specifically excluded.

