---

title: Methods and compositions to reduce scattering of light during therapeutic and diagnostic imaging procedures
abstract: Disclosed are improved methods and compositions for use in light-based in vivo imaging and treatment. The techniques described involve the use of low-scattering, oxygen-carrying blood substitutes in imaging and treatment methods, including OCT imaging. The invention has particular advantages in imaging within the cardiovascular system and highly vascularized or oxygen-dependent tissues.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07983736&OS=07983736&RS=07983736
owner: Board of Regents, The University of Texas System
number: 07983736
owner_city: Austin
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
The present application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 500 577 filed Jun. 25 2004 which is a U.S. National Phase application of PCT US2003 01135 filed Jan. 15 2003 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 348 604 filed Jan. 15 2002 all incorporated by reference in their entirety herein.

The U.S. Government owns rights in the present invention pursuant to grant numbers HL 59472 from the National Institutes of Health.

The present invention relates most substantially to the field of in vivo imaging. The invention provides methods and compositions for use in improved light based imaging and treatment modalities based upon the use of low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes. The use of hemoglobin solutions in combination with OCT imaging is a particular example within the invention. The compositions methods and uses of the invention have important advantages in imaging tissues that are intolerant of ischemia.

Non invasive diagnostic imaging is now widely used in clinical practice. One of the commonly employed techniques is imaging with ultrasound which measures the intensity of backscattered sound waves. However ultrasound technology is limited both in the rate at which images can be generated and in the structural detail that can be provided. Thus ultrasound is not best suited to in vivo imaging on a precise scale or in connection with rapidly moving biological tissues. Such drawbacks reduce the applications of ultrasound e.g. limiting its use in cardiovascular imaging.

A promising new technique optical coherence tomography OCT has been developed and proposed for use in certain aspects of in vivo imaging. OCT is analogous to ultrasound but measures the intensity of backscattered light rather than sound waves. Since light travels faster than sound and has a substantially shorter wavelength the use of OCT provides micron scale resolution Huang et al. 1991 and faster than video imaging speeds Rollins et al. 1998 . The relative simplicity of the instrumentation also allows for inexpensive construction.

Early biomedical applications of OCT focused on imaging stationary and transparent tissues such as the eye where imaging depths can be deeper than 2 cm Hee et al. 1995 . Further developments have been applied to non transparent tissues such as skin where structures as deep as 1 2 mm have been visualized Schmitt et al. 1995 . Dynamic but nearly transparent structures such as the developing in vivo tadpole heart have also been studied using OCT Boppart et al. 1997 .

OCT has now been proposed for use in imaging other biological tissues and there has recently been increasing interest in applying OCT to the cardiovascular system. In vivo intravascular imaging has been reported in rabbit aorta Fujimoto et al. 1999 and in vitro studies with coronary arteries have suggested a method of determining fibrous cap thickness of atherosclerotic plaques Brezinksi et al. 1996 Patwari et al. 2000 . However despite such proposals the use of OCT has yet to prove satisfactory in many biological imaging applications.

The limitations of applying OCT to dynamic non transparent biological structures are particularly evident in attempts at cardiovascular imaging. Although optical Doppler tomography ODT which combines Doppler velocimetry with OCT has been used to assess blood flow in the chick chorioallantoic membrane and in rodent skin problems with signal attenuation were noted Chen et al. 1997 . Other reports have also indicated that potential in vivo applications of OCT imaging are complicated by the presence of blood in the imaging field which results in substantial signal attenuation Brezinski et al. 2001 . Therefore although cardiovascular imaging with light seemed to offer a solution to the drawbacks of ultrasound practical applications have proven problematical due to significant optical attenuation.

In preliminary attempts at OCT intravascular imaging in the rabbit aorta saline infusions were required to obtain adequately defined images Fujimoto et al. 1999 . Others have commented that the use of such saline flushes will likely need to be eliminated in order for intravascular OCT imaging to advance Brezinski et al. 2001 . The alternative approach proposed was to modify plasma to match the index of refraction to that of red blood cells i.e. increasing the serum refractive index closer to that of the erythrocyte cytoplasm Brezinski et al. 2001 . However whilst such index matching techniques have been pursued in relatively crude in vitro experiments using dextran and intravenous contrast agents the in vitro tests have been less than convincing and the proposal has not been validated in acceptable in vivo models.

Therefore despite attempts to refine or optimize existing imaging technology there remains in the art a need for improved in vivo imaging techniques particularly rapid techniques that provide high resolution. The development of improved techniques that can be effectively applied to imaging in the cardiovascular system heart brain and other blood rich tissues is particularly desirable. In trying to expand the use of in vivo OCT imaging into such important fields it would be important to overcome the existing need for saline flushes which currently limits OCT applications in such areas. Accordingly the ability to rapidly provide high resolution images of blood rich tissues without causing ischemic tissue damage would represent a particularly significant advance.

The embodiments disclosed herein solve such needs in the art by providing a range of improved imaging methods with important applications in imaging through blood rich structures. The embodiments disclosed herein particularly provide improved light based imaging and treatment methods including OCT imaging using low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes such as hemoglobin solutions. The embodiments disclosed herein significantly reduce signal attenuation due to scattering from blood without resorting to the limitations of saline flushes. The embodiments disclosed herein thus simultaneously reduce scattering and significantly improves image quality whilst maintaining tissue oxygenation avoiding ischemia and related tissue damage. The methods compositions kits and uses of the embodiments are therefore ideal for rapid and high resolution imaging of cardiovascular brain and other highly vascularized tissues.

The inventors appreciated that the significant optical attenuation observed in light imaging techniques to date was mainly due to the scattering properties of erythrocytes. Initial proposals to limit signal attenuation concerned diluting blood with saline. More recent approaches suggested index matching such as by diluting plasma with dextran or intravenous contrast agents. Whether using saline dextran or another contrast agent the inventors realized that the attendant reduction in oxygen carrying ability would severely limit any clinical imaging applications and would essentially prevent imaging in organs and tissues that are largely intolerant to ischemia such as the heart and brain.

Therefore the inventors intended to develop an alternative approach leading to the embodiments disclosed herein use of oxygen carrying blood substitutes to lower the hematocrit and minimize scattering. In turning from the field of imaging technology to that blood substitutes the inventors realized that despite the extensive volume of documentation on the chemical biological and physiological properties of various blood substitutes there was no meaningful information on the optical properties any of these materials.

From their own analyses and studies the inventors were able to select blood substitutes with appropriate low scattering optical properties and sufficient oxygen carrying biological and physiological properties thus arriving at the embodiments disclosed herein. The preferred low scattering blood substitutes for use in the embodiments disclosed herein are hemoglobin solutions. The inventors also determined that the perfluorocarbon PFC blood substitutes prominent in the literature were essentially unsuitable for use in the embodiments disclosed herein as rather than having low scattering optical properties they would exhibit essentially the same problematical scattering as whole blood.

The embodiments disclosed herein thus provide a range of improved methods for performing optical imaging and light based treatment procedures in which the blood associated with the tissue is perfused with a biologically effective amount of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute. The surprising use of low scattering blood substitutes such as non particulate hemoglobin based solutions provides dual benefits both from the biochemical properties of oxygen carriage and the advantageous optical transparency at far red and near infrared wavelengths. By sufficiently reducing the hematocrit with such a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute in vivo imaging can now be conducted in heart brain and other blood rich structures.

Proof of principle of the embodiments disclosed herein is provided by the present data quantifying the regional right ventricular function in the intact beating murine heart using OCT imaging in combination with an artificial hemoglobin solution. From this validation the embodiments disclosed herein now provide for the advantageous use of low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes in various therapeutic and diagnostic imaging embodiments where reduced light scattering is beneficial.

In overcoming the limitations and prejudices in the prior art in the successful development of blood substitutes for use in improved imaging the inventors discovered a window of properties for effective blood substitutes within which scattering is substantially reduced but oxygen carrying capacity is not substantially impaired. Compositions and methods that operate within the window defined by the embodiments disclosed herein can now be successfully applied in a range of therapeutic and diagnostic embodiments as will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the present disclosure.

As used throughout the entire application the terms a and an are used in the sense that they mean at least one at least a first one or more or a plurality of the referenced components except in instances wherein an upper limit is thereafter specifically stated or would be clearly understood by those of ordinary skill in the art. The operable limits and parameters of combinations as with the amounts of any single agent will be known to those of ordinary skill in the art in light of the present disclosure. The a and an terms are also used to mean at least one at least a first one or more or a plurality of steps in the recited methods except where specifically stated.

Throughout the present specification and claims the term or is used in the sense that it means and or in reference to the disclosed and claimed components and steps except in instances wherein a different meaning is thereafter specifically stated or would be clearly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Thus unless otherwise expressly stated or clearly known by those of ordinary skill in the art the term or is simply used as a succinct reference term to cover each recited component or step and all combinations thereof.

In a general and overall sense the embodiments disclosed herein provide methods for performing optical imaging or treatment of at least a first tissue or a tissue in an animal or human comprising providing into the blood associated with at least a first tissue or a tissue a biologically effective amount of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute and applying an optical imaging or treatment step to the at least a first tissue or tissue.

The embodiments disclosed herein may thus also be described as providing a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute for use in an optical imaging or treatment method i.e. for use in a clinical or veterinary optical imaging or treatment method.

Further the embodiments disclosed herein provide the use of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute in the manufacture of a medicament for use in an optical imaging or treatment method i.e. for use in a clinical or veterinary optical imaging or treatment method.

Advantageous methods and uses of the embodiments disclosed herein therefore provide means for performing optical imaging or treatment of a tissue in an animal or human that comprises a substantial blood fraction which methods and uses comprise a introducing into the blood fraction of the tissue an amount of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute effective to substantially or significantly reduce optical scattering from the blood fraction whilst substantially or effectively maintaining oxygenation in the tissue and b applying an optical imaging or treatment step to the tissue.

The present embodiments disclosed herein may also be described as methods and uses for performing optical imaging and treatment of blood containing or blood rich tissues in animals and humans in the absence of a saline flush. Further the embodiments disclosed herein may be described as methods and uses for performing optical imaging and treatment of blood containing or blood rich tissues in animals and humans in the absence of a perfluorocarbon blood substitute. Accordingly the embodiments disclosed herein provide methods and uses for optical imaging and treatment of blood containing or blood rich tissues in animals and humans using oxygen carrying blood substitutes that both substantially maintain tissue oxygenation and substantially reduce scattering.

In terms of imaging the embodiments disclosed herein provide methods and uses for performing optical imaging of at least a first tissue or a tissue in an animal or human comprising providing into the blood associated with the at least a first tissue or a tissue a biologically effective amount of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute and applying an optical imaging step to the at least a first tissue or tissue.

The imaging methods and uses of the embodiments disclosed herein may further be described as those for generating an image of at least a first vascularized tissue by in vivo diagnostic light imaging comprising providing into the blood perfusing the vascularized tissue a biologically effective amount of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute and executing a diagnostic light imaging technique to generate an image of the vascularized tissue.

In therapeutic embodiments the embodiments disclosed herein provide methods and uses for executing a therapeutic or treatment step in at least a first tissue or a tissue in an animal or human comprising providing into the blood associated with the at least a first tissue or a tissue a biologically effective amount of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute and applying an optical therapeutic or treatment step to the at least a first tissue or tissue.

Whether in imaging or therapy the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute is typically a solution comprising at least a first oxygen carrier. A solution comprising at least a first oxygen carrier as used herein is an oxygen carrying solution effective to reduce and preferably to substantially reduce optical scattering when mixed with blood or whole blood. Such properties can be effectively determined in vitro as disclosed herein. However in the practice of the embodiments disclosed herein the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes are preferably defined as solutions comprising at least a first oxygen carrier that are effective to reduce and preferably to substantially reduce optical scattering from a blood fraction during in vivo imaging or therapy.

Low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute solutions comprising at least a first oxygen carrier will preferably not contain substantial amounts of particles approximating to the size of an erythrocyte. Preferably the largest particles or species in the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute solutions will have a size of less than about 800 nanometers nm and more preferably a size of less than about 80 nm. In certain preferred embodiments the largest particles or species in the low scattering oxygen carrying solutions for use in the embodiments disclosed herein will have a size of less than about 70 nm 60 nm 50 nm 40 nm 30 nm or 20 nm and more preferably a size of between about 10 nm and about 5 nm.

The low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute is also preferably a solution comprising at least a first oxygen carrier in which the refractive index of the at least a first oxygen carrier is substantially equal to other molecular species in the solution.

Preferred low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes are substantially non particulate hemoglobin solutions more preferably substantially non particulate homogeneous acellular hemoglobin solutions. The preferred use of acellular hemoglobin solutions avoids particle sizes in the 8 m range of the erythrocyte. Preferably the largest species in the solution is hemoglobin with a size of about 6 nanometers.

Such hemoglobin solutions may comprise bovine porcine ovine or primate hemoglobin with primate hemoglobin being preferred and human hemoglobin being more preferred. Mixtures of hemoglobins may be included. The substantially non particulate hemoglobin solutions and substantially non particulate homogeneous acellular hemoglobin solutions may comprise recombinantly produced hemoglobin. Suitable hemoglobin solutions may also or alternatively comprise crosslinked hemoglobin or polymerized hemoglobin. Particular examples for use in the embodiments disclosed herein are hemoglobin solutions comprising glutaraldehyde crosslinked polymerized hemoglobins. Surface modified hemoglobins may also be employed in the methods and uses of the embodiments disclosed herein.

The low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute is selected so that it is effective to substantially reduce optical scattering from the blood fraction whilst substantially or effectively maintaining tissue oxygenation . The blood substitute should thus have a sufficient or effective oxygen carrying capacity i.e. an oxygen carrying capacity sufficient or effective to substantially maintain tissue function during the imaging or therapeutic method and or sufficient or effective to permit substantial restoration of tissue function after cessation of the imaging or therapeutic method. The blood substitute should thus have an oxygen carrying capacity sufficient to substantially maintain or restore tissue function for the chosen imaging or therapeutic procedure .

An oxygen carrying capacity sufficient for the selected imaging or therapeutic embodiment means that the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute preferably the substantially non particulate hemoglobin solution should maintain sufficient tissue oxygenation to substantially or significantly reduce ischemia and related tissue damage in comparison to the use of the same imaging or therapeutic embodiment when used in conjunction with a saline flush. Preferably the sufficient oxygen carrying capacity will be effective to maintain tissue oxygenation at levels sufficient to substantially avoid ischemia and related tissue damage.

Low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes with low oxygen carrying capacities as compared to whole blood will be more suitable for use in imaging and therapeutic embodiments of lesser duration and or in connection with tissues that are more tolerant to ischemia. Low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes with moderate or high oxygen carrying capacities are preferred and those with high oxygen carrying capacities are more preferred particularly for use in imaging and therapeutic embodiments of longer duration and or for use in tissues that are less tolerant to ischemia and more prone to resultant tissue damage such as heart and brain. A low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute with a high oxygen carrying capacity as defined herein is a blood substitute that has at least about 70 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood.

Accounting for the tissue and the nature and duration of the chosen imaging or therapeutic procedure the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute has an oxygen carrying capacity prior to administration of at least about 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 91 or about 90 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood preferably has an oxygen carrying capacity prior to administration of at least about 89 88 87 86 85 84 83 82 81 or about 80 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood and more preferably has an oxygen carrying capacity prior to administration of about 79 78 77 76 75 74 73 72 71 or about 70 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood.

However such values are not limiting on the embodiments disclosed herein in which the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute may have an oxygen carrying capacity prior to administration of about 69 68 67 66 65 64 63 62 61 or about 60 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood or of about 59 58 57 56 55 54 53 52 51 or about 50 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood or of about 49 48 47 46 45 44 43 42 41 or about 40 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood or of about 39 38 37 36 35 34 33 32 31 or about 30 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood or of about 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 or about 20 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood or even of about 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 or about 10 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood or less so long as the oxygen carrying capacity is sufficient for the chosen embodiment.

Any ranges between any of the foregoing values are included such as oxygen carrying capacities prior to administration of between about 60 and about 99 preferably between about 65 and about 90 and more preferably between about 70 and about 80 of the oxygen carrying capacity of whole blood.

Where hemoglobin solutions are used the hemoglobin solution should be selected so that it is also effective to substantially reduce optical scattering from the blood fraction whilst substantially or effectively maintaining tissue oxygenation. Again depending on the tissue nature and duration of the procedure the hemoglobin solution prior to administration may have a hemoglobin concentration of at least about 99 98 97 96 95 94 93 92 91 or about 90 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood preferably will have a hemoglobin concentration of at least about 89 88 87 86 85 84 83 82 81 or about 80 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood and more preferably will have a hemoglobin concentration of about 79 78 77 76 75 74 73 72 71 or about 70 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood.

However such values are not limiting on the embodiments disclosed herein in which the hemoglobin solutions as measured prior to administration may have a hemoglobin concentration of about 69 68 67 66 65 64 63 62 61 or about 60 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood or of about 59 58 57 56 55 54 53 52 51 or about 50 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood or of about 49 48 47 46 45 44 43 42 41 or about 40 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood or of about 39 38 37 36 35 34 33 32 31 or about 30 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood or of about 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 or about 20 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood or even of about 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 or about 10 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood or less given that the oxygen carrying capacity is sufficient for the chosen embodiment.

Any ranges between any of the foregoing values are included such as hemoglobin concentrations prior to administration of between about 60 and about 99 preferably between about 65 and about 90 and more preferably between about 70 and about 80 of the hemoglobin concentration of whole blood.

In the practice of the embodiments disclosed herein the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute preferably the substantially non particulate hemoglobin solution will be selected so that the provision of the blood substitute reduces the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue at least to about 35 or about 30 or less as opposed to the hematocrit of whole blood which is about 45 . Although more significant reductions in hematocrit are preferred these moderate reductions in hematocrit are useful aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein particularly in selected imaging and therapeutic embodiments such as imaging through thinner barriers and in tissues with moderate or low blood content.

Preferably however the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute or substantially non particulate hemoglobin solution will be chosen so that the provision of the blood substitute reduces the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue at least to about 25 24 23 22 21 or about 20 or preferably reduces the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue at least to about 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 or about 10 or more preferably reduces the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue at least to about 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or about 1 or even to 0 . Any ranges between any of the foregoing values are included such as between about 0 and about 10 preferably between about 1 and about 10 and more preferably between about 1 and about 5 .

The low scattering or low optical scattering properties of the oxygen carrying blood substitute or substantially non particulate hemoglobin solution for use in the embodiments disclosed herein are such that the blood substitute is effective to reduce and preferably to substantially reduce optical scattering from blood i.e. in admixture with blood or whole blood. During in vivo imaging or therapy the selected blood substitute or hemoglobin solution will reduce and preferably substantially or significantly reduce optical scattering from the blood fraction associated with the tissue.

The ability to reduce substantially reduce or significantly reduce optical scattering from a blood fraction associated with a tissue means that the use of the blood substitute or hemoglobin solution according to the embodiments disclosed herein reduces substantially reduces or significantly reduces optical scattering during optical imaging or treatment in comparison to the optical scattering that occurs when the same imaging or therapeutic method is performed in conjunction with whole blood i.e. when the blood of the animal or human is not substantially altered or perfused with another substance prior to or during the imaging or therapeutic method.

Depending on the quality of image or effectiveness of therapy prior to the embodiments disclosed herein a minimal or moderate reduction in optical scattering may still provide a beneficial or even significant improvement in the overall effectiveness of the imaging or therapeutic method. Any reduction in optical scattering that results in a reproducible improvement in the effectiveness of the imaging or therapeutic method is an effective reduction in optical scattering as used herein. Preferably use of the embodiments disclosed herein will reduce substantially reduce or significantly reduce optical scattering such that there is a moderate or preferably a significant improvement in the effectiveness of the imaging or therapeutic method in comparison to the effectiveness when the same imaging or therapeutic method is performed in conjunction with whole blood.

Effective in vitro means to determine or confirm the ability of an oxygen carrying blood substitute or substantially non particulate hemoglobin solution to reduce and preferably to substantially reduce optical scattering from blood are available. Following in vitro studies the in vivo low scattering properties of the chosen blood substitute or hemoglobin solution can be quantitated during imaging or therapy in accepted animal models prior to clinical or veterinary use.

In a similar manner to the hematocrit reductions although substantial reductions in scattering coefficient are preferred moderate reductions in scattering coefficient are also useful in certain embodiments disclosed herein particularly in imaging and therapeutic embodiments with thinner biological barriers and in tissues with moderate or low blood content. Suitable blood substitutes or hemoglobin solutions therefore include those that when provided to an animal or human reduce the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue to an amount effective to result in a scattering coefficient of about two thirds the scattering coefficient for whole blood or less.

In certain preferred embodiments the blood substitute or hemoglobin solution is selected such that the provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute reduces the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue to an amount effective to result in a scattering coefficient of about one half the scattering coefficient for whole blood or less. The provision of the preferred low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes may be defined as reducing the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue to an amount effective to result in a half maximal or lower scattering coefficient as shown in .

In other preferred embodiments the blood substitute or hemoglobin solution is selected such that the provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute reduces the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue to an amount effective to result in a scattering coefficient of about one tenth the scattering coefficient for whole blood or less.

The decrease in scattering coefficient may also be defined using any particular value in this range. Accordingly provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute can reduce the hematocrit of the blood associated with the tissue to an amount effective to result in a scattering coefficient of about 66 65 64 63 62 61 60 59 58 57 56 55 54 53 52 51 or about 50 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood or preferably of about 49 48 47 46 45 44 43 42 41 or about 40 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood or more preferably of about 39 38 37 36 35 34 33 32 31 or about 30 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood or yet more preferably of about 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 or about 20 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood or most preferably of about 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 7 6 or about 5 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood.

In terms of the decrease in scattering coefficient this should preferably be assessed in the context of a particular wavelength. Accordingly provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute is effective to reduce the scattering coefficient of the blood associated with the tissue to about two thirds preferably to about one half and more preferably to about one tenth of the scattering coefficient of whole blood or less at a sample wavelength of between about 600 nm and about 1500 nm.

More preferably provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute is effective to reduce the scattering coefficient of the blood associated with the tissue to about two thirds preferably to about one half and more preferably to about one tenth of the scattering coefficient of whole blood or less at a sample wavelength of about 600 nm.

Provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute is thus effective to reduce the scattering coefficient of the blood associated with the tissue to about 50 49 48 47 46 45 44 43 42 41 or about 40 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood or more preferably to about 39 38 37 36 35 34 33 32 31 or about 30 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood or yet more preferably to about 29 28 27 26 25 24 23 22 21 or about 20 of the scattering coefficient for whole blood or most preferably to about 19 18 17 16 15 14 13 12 11 or about 10 of the scattering coefficient of whole blood or less at a sample wavelength of between about 600 nm and about 1500 nm and more preferably at a sample wavelength of about 600 nm.

In other preferred embodiments provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute is defined as decreasing the scattering coefficient of the blood associated with the tissue to a scattering coefficient of about 0.4 mmor about 0.3 mmor less at about 1310 nm. More preferably provision of the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute decreases the scattering coefficient of the blood associated with the tissue to a scattering coefficient of about 0.2 mmat about 1310 nm.

The methods and uses of the embodiments disclosed herein are widely applicable to a range of optical imaging and treatment methods preferably those wherein the optical imaging or treatment step applies light of a wavelength of between about 600 nm and about 1500 nm.

Within the optical imaging field the embodiments disclosed herein are suitable for use with one or more optical imaging steps that generate an image by light transmitting through at least a first tissue and by light reflected by at least a first tissue. The optical imaging may also comprise a light refraction step.

The one or more optical imaging steps that can be improved by use of the embodiments disclosed herein thus include spectroscopic imaging steps such as reflectance spectroscopy fluorescence spectroscopy resonance spectroscopy and Raman spectroscopy.

The embodiments disclosed herein may also be used with one or more photoacoustic imaging steps non linear harmonic imaging steps and photothermal imaging steps.

The one or more optical imaging steps can provide a spatial image of the tissue or a temporal image of the tissue.

One of the preferred uses of the embodiments disclosed herein is in connection with an optical coherence tomography OCT imaging step. In certain preferred embodiments the embodiments disclosed herein provide methods and uses for optical coherence tomography imaging of at least a first tissue in an animal or human comprising providing into the blood associated with the at least a first tissue a biologically effective amount of a substantially non particulate hemoglobin solution and performing optical coherence tomography imaging of the at least a first tissue.

Other preferred embodiments provide methods and uses for optical coherence tomography imaging of a tissue in an animal or human that comprises a substantial blood fraction i.e. a blood rich tissue . These methods and uses preferably comprise a introducing into the blood fraction of the tissue an amount of an essentially non particulate hemoglobin solution effective to substantially reduce optical scattering from the blood fraction whilst substantially maintaining oxygenation in the tissue and b performing optical coherence tomography imaging of the tissue.

Subsequent to or in conjunction with one or more imaging steps the embodiments disclosed herein further provide for the execution of at least a first treatment or treatment step. The treatment or treatment step can be better selected from a number of candidate treatments or treatment steps based upon the improved image provided by the optical imaging step of the embodiments disclosed herein. The imaging and treatment steps may each performed on the same tissue or the treatment step may be performed on a distinct tissue that is functionally connected with the imaged tissue.

The one or more treatment or treatment steps may be performed shortly after the imaging step of the embodiments disclosed herein such that treatment can be performed in the same general clinical procedure. Alternatively the one or more treatment or treatment steps may be designed and subsequently performed in a different clinical procedure.

The at least a first treatment or treatment step selected after the one or more imaging steps of the embodiments disclosed herein may also be an optical treatment step but it need not be. The one or more treatments or treatment steps may thus comprises surgical treatment steps or the provision of therapeutic agents or combinations thereof.

Aside from any imaging the embodiments disclosed herein also provide for improved optical treatments and treatment steps. Exemplary optical treatment steps for use with the embodiments disclosed herein include laser ablation treatment laser angioplasty treatment and laser photothermolysis treatment. The optical treatment step may also be a photoacoustic treatment step. The optical treatment step may comprise a light refraction step.

Whether imaging treatment or combinations thereof the embodiments disclosed herein are suitable for use with procedures to be performed in a variety of tissues and organs. For example neural tissue brain tissue and cardiac tissue. The embodiments disclosed herein may be used in connection with one or more tissues located within the kidney lung liver spleen brain heart or one of the great vessels. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be used with imaging and or treatment of an animal or human that has or is at risk for developing a vascularized tumor.

In both imaging and treatment the at least a first tissue subject to the procedure may comprise at least two tissue layers wherein at least a first of the tissue layers is associated with a substantial blood fraction. In many embodiments the at least a first tissue subject to the procedure will comprise a plurality of tissue layers wherein at least a first of the tissue layers is associated with a substantial blood fraction.

Although by no means limited to such embodiments the embodiments disclosed herein have particular advantages in the imaging and or treatment of highly perfused tissues and organs such as cardiovascular tissue cardiac tissue and blood vessels. The optical imaging or treatment step may be applied from the lumen of a blood vessel.

The embodiments disclosed herein are particularly suitable for imaging and or treatment in embodiments wherein a blood vessel has or is suspected to have an atherosclerotic plaque or lesion. In related embodiments the embodiments disclosed herein are also particularly suitable for imaging and or treatment in connection with an animal or human that has or is at risk for developing a cardiac tissue or cardiac valve defect or has suffered or is at risk for developing a heart attack.

Further advantageous methods and uses of the embodiments disclosed herein are in connection with imaging and or treatment in an animal or human that has or is at risk for developing an ischemic tissue particularly a life or limb threatening ischemia particularly an animal or human that has suffered or is at risk for developing a stroke.

The embodiments disclosed herein are widely applicable for use in any of a wide range of animals including all mammals particularly humans valuable or valued animals such as racehorses and domestic pets animals used to directly e.g. meat or indirectly e.g. milk and eggs produce food for human consumption and animals preferred as models for pre clinical studies. Imaging and treatment in humans are preferred embodiments which may be effectively accomplished due to the oxygen carrying capacity and lack of toxicity and side effects of the administered solutions.

In addition to imaging and treatment in human adults and children other exemplary embodiments include imaging and treatment in other primates in horses cows pigs boar sheep goat buffalo bison llama deer elk and other large animals in dogs and cats and in smaller animals particularly those used as models for pre clinical studies such as mice rats guinea pigs rabbits and the like including genetically modified experimental animals.

Given that the low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes for use in the embodiments disclosed herein provide notable advantages in tissue oxygenation the embodiments disclosed herein may be used for longer times than the prior art methods. In any event the embodiments disclosed herein are evidently suitable for use in imaging and or treatment protocols performed for a time at least as long as the standard times required in the art. The low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute may be provided to a blood vessel feeding the tissue from between about one or two minutes or five or ten minutes prior to applying the optical imaging or treatment step up to a matter of hours before performing the optical imaging or treatment step.

The embodiments disclosed herein also further provide a number of kits comprising a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute such as those described above and herein and instructions for using the blood substitute in an optical imaging or treatment method. The instructions may be written instructions or computerized instructions such as software associated with computer hardware.

Techniques are needed to improve the resolution of imaging in biological tissues. Although OCT would have certain advantages clinical applications of OCT appear limited due to substantial signal attenuation believed to be due in large part to the presence of blood in the imaging field. In attempts to overcome such significant optical attenuation researchers have diluted the blood in the imaging field with saline Fujimoto et al. 1999 .

Others have instead attempted to use index matching techniques wherein dextran or an intravenous contrast agent is used. Using an in vitro system in which blood is pumped through transparent tubing dilution with dextran or an intravenous contrast agent has been reported to reduce scattering somewhat Brezinski et al. 2001 . However these authors indicated that neither of the compounds tested increased penetration sufficiently such that they could be used in vivo or at practical volumes Brezinski et al. 2001 .

U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 575 to Nemati also concerns the objective of enhancing the optical transparency of a first biological tissue that is covered by a surface permeability barrier of a second tissue. The mechanism involves bypassing the barrier of the second tissue and delivering a clarifying agent to alter the attenuation characteristics of the biological tissue. U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 575 thus approaches the optical scattering problem very differently to the embodiments disclosed herein. Nemati s use of clarifying agents hypo or hyper osmotic agents again signifies an index matching technique as generally described in the foregoing Brezinski et al. 2001 article although U.S. Pat. No. 6 219 575 also involves structural modification of the target tissue.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 159 445 to Klaveness et al. describes light imaging contrast agents and methods reported to increase light scattering by controlling particulate size and refractive index. U.S. Pat. No. 6 159 445 however represents the opposite of the embodiments disclosed herein in that it concerns the use of solutions with increased scattering properties. In contrast the embodiments disclosed herein are based upon decreased scattering which improves the penetration depth of light in the desired target.

In the context of the use of saline dextran or other agents the inventors realized that all such techniques were limited by a failure to address the oxygenation problem. Prior to the embodiments disclosed herein there had been no suggestion of how to reduce scattering during imaging techniques and yet compensate for the lack of oxygenation that results from dilution of the subject s blood. The inventors therefore realized that a new approach was needed so that imaging could be achieved without ischemia thus opening up the imaging modalities to blood filled and highly oxygen dependent tissues.

In studying the existing problems with a view to developing improved in vivo imaging techniques particularly those applicable to imaging in the cardiovascular system blood rich and or more oxygen dependent tissues the inventors had to bridge various fields including medical physiological biochemical and optical. Moreover after studying the available literature the inventors had to both apply existing knowledge in new and surprising ways and had to extend the field of knowledge beyond what formerly existed e.g. by analyzing particular physical properties of biological components for the first time.

In searching for a possible solution to the problem the inventors first focused on the precise nature of the signal attenuation. Light attenuation in blood can originate from two sources absorption by hemoglobin and scattering by red blood cells Kramer et al. 1951 Twersky 1970 Roggan et al. 1999 Steinke and Sheppard 1986 . As the significant source of light attenuation in whole blood is likely due to scattering the inventors hypothesized that by diminishing the scattering properties of blood the visualization of blood containing structures such as coronary arteries and ventricular myocardium using optical imaging techniques would become feasible.

Although the scattering properties of blood could likely be reduced by removing or diluting the red blood cells the inventors further realized that this would lead to oxygenation problems ischemia and the associated and significant limitations. The inventors therefore decided to approach this problem by diluting the problematic red blood cells not with saline but with an oxygen carrying blood substitute which was still able to reduce scattering. Despite the lack of previous information on the optical properties of blood substitutes the inventors further discovered that substitutes based on acellular hemoglobin had the desired low scattering optical properties whilst substantially retaining the oxygen carrying capacity of natural blood. PFC based blood substitutes on the other hand were determined to be unsuitable as these emulsions do not have reduced scattering properties.

Although elegantly simple in hindsight the embodiments disclosed herein surprising use of a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute allows both problems in the prior art to be solved simultaneously. The methods devised whereby blood is diluted with a substantially non particulate oxygen carrying blood substitute such as a hemoglobin solution reduce scattering and maintain oxygenation.

The present examples report the reduced scattering observed when replacing murine blood with a hemoglobin based blood substitute. The scattering and absorption properties of in vitro preparations of whole blood and dilutions of blood with a blood substitute were determined with a spectrophotometer and an inverse adding doubling algorithm. OCT imaging of the same dilutions demonstrated a significant reduction in scattering at a hematocrit less than about 5 .

A fiber optic OCT imaging system was used to image the murine right ventricular mid free wall before and after isovolumic replacement with blood substitute. Strong light attenuation prevented full thickness imaging before replacement while visualization of the full ventricular thickness was possible after replacement. Baseline and imaging hematocrits were 52.4 3.8 and 3.7 1.2 respectively. End systolic and diastolic thickness values were 0.458 0.051 mm and 0.352 0.047 mm. Percent thickening fraction was 30.8 7.5 .

The present data therefore show that optical imaging of the intact beating murine right ventricle was substantially improved by isovolumic blood replacement with a hemoglobin based blood substitute. By sufficiently reducing the hematocrit with a blood substitute to obtain significantly improved imaging whilst maintaining oxygenation in the manner demonstrated herein the present application therefore supports analogous applications of the embodiments disclosed herein in a range of optical diagnostic and therapeutic techniques particularly those in cardiovascular medicine.

In an imaging device that uses light light travels from a source to tissue then from the tissue to a detector. The more signal that reaches the detector the better the image. Signal can be prevented from reaching the detector thus making a poorer image by two mechanisms absorption and scattering. If one considers light as numerous photons then absorption can be thought of as a photon hitting a particle in the tissue and stopping there dissipating its energy as heat. Scattering can be thought of as a photon bouncing off a particle in the tissue. When scattering and absorption are taken together the result is attenuation or extinction where is the total attenuation coefficient is the absorption coefficient and is the scattering coefficient .

The scattering phenomenon has a directional component whereas absorption does not because when a photon is scattered it can travel in many different directions . Discounting the directional component of scattering provides the reduced scattering coefficient or . The reduced scattering coefficient can be easier to measure in certain practical embodiments as described herein in Example 1.

The scattering properties of blood and blood substitutes are important in the embodiments disclosed herein. Whole blood can be considered as a suspension of particles i.e. cells in plasma. Red blood cells erythrocytes predominate although white blood cells of numerous types leukocytes are also present. Important properties that affect the scattering coefficient are index of refraction of the particle e.g. red blood cell the index of refraction of the suspending medium e.g. plasma the wavelength of light the size of the particle and the concentration of the particle.

A particularly important consideration for the embodiments disclosed herein is the comparison between the wavelength of light and the particle size. To see a small particle for example in a microscope light must be scattered off the particle so that the light does not enter the eye of the observer. In the embodiments disclosed herein the objective is to avoid scattering of light. The closer the wavelength is to the diameter of the particle the more likely the light will scatter. In the case of blood the particle the red blood cell if spherical is about 8 m in diameter. At the relevant wavelengths of 600 to 1500 m a light wave will encounter the particle several times on its path and the light will likely scatter.

To overcome the existing scattering problems in the art the present inventors realized that oxygen carrying substitutes needed to be used in which any particles were either much smaller or much bigger than the red blood cell. The optical properties of acellular hemoglobin solutions were then determined experimentally by the inventors for the first time wherein they were found to be suitable to both reduce scattering and maintain oxygenation.

The largest particle in such artificial bloods is the hemoglobin molecule which has a particle size of about 6 nm in diameter as opposed to 8 m for the red blood cell . As shown in Example 1 the inventors determined the reduced scattering coefficient of an acellular hemoglobin solution to be about 0.2 mmat a sample wavelength 1310 nm whilst whole blood had a reduced scattering coefficient of about 1.8 mmat the same wavelength. This indicated to the inventors that such hemoglobin solutions had the properties required to reduce scattering sufficiently to provide meaningful benefit in imaging and light based treatment modalities.

Within the field of artificial bloods there has been substantial work in the area perfluorocarbons PFCs . Indeed several PFC products are available and have been used in humans. U.S. Pat. No. 5 403 575 No. 5 785 950 and No. 5 567 765 each generally concern PFC blood substitutes. Although computed tomography is mentioned in these patents this relates to the use of multiple projections of X rays to generate an image and does not pertain to light imaging or OCT techniques.

In addition there are preliminary scientific publications pertaining to the use of perfluorocarbon and fluorinated artificial blood emulsions. Joseph et al. 1995 and Fishman et al. 1999 each concern the use of perfluorocarbon emulsions in conjunction with MRI whereas Saito et al. 1984 relates to myocardial contrast echocardiography using a fluorinated blood substitute Fluosol DA as a contrast agent.

PFCs are characterized by a linear or cyclic carbon backbone that is highly substituted with fluorine and occasionally other halogens Stowell et al. 2001 Spahn Pasch 2001 . Pure PFCs are not miscible in water and are prepared for intravenous administration as suspensions or emulsions of the perfluorocarbon with a surfactant. These suspensions contain particles of about 200 nanometers in size. The inventors deduced that this was sufficiently close to the wavelengths of light contemplated for use in imaging and therapy 600 1500 nm that PFCs would likely also cause significant light scattering. Indeed this was validated by the inventors experimental studies showing that the scattering properties of PFC blood substitutes are unsuitable for use in the embodiments disclosed herein.

Therefore in selecting a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute for use in the embodiments disclosed herein those of ordinary skill in the art will now understand that a perfluorocarbon or PFC blood substitute should not be used. In contrast the preferred compounds for use in the embodiments disclosed herein are cell free hemoglobins. Although a range of suitable substantially non particulate homogeneous acellular hemoglobin solutions can be prepared either by purification or by recombinant expression a number of commercial products are already available which can be readily employed.

Exemplary products include PEG Hb a PEG surface modified bovine hemoglobin Enzon Piscataway N.J. and PHP pyridoxyl Hb polyoxyethylene a pyridoxylated human hemoglobin to which polyoxyethylene is attached Apex Bioscience Research Triangle Park N.C. .

 Crosslinked hemoglobins are also available in which the hemoglobin subunits are covalently attached to form stabilized tetramers. Examples include HemAssist a chemically cross linked human hemoglobin Baxter Healthcare Deerfield Ill. and Optro a recombinantly expressed tetramer Somatogen Boulder Colo. now Baxter .

Preferred hemoglobin solutions are those comprising polymerized hemoglobins. One suitable product is a glutaraldehyde linked human hemoglobin available as PolyHeme Northfield Evanston Ill. . Hemolink may also be used which is a human hemoglobin crosslinked with open ring raffinose Hemosol Toronto .

One preferred example is the blood substitute termed Oxyglobin . Oxyglobin Hemopure has already been approved for human use in various countries e.g. in the treatment of anemia. It has also been approved for veterinary use in the United States e.g. for administration to anemic dogs.

Oxyglobin is a glutaraldehyde linked bovine hemoglobin and is available from Biopure Corporation 11 Hurley Street Cambridge Mass. 02141 U.S.A. Oxyglobin is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 691 452 No. 5 753 616 No. 5 955 581 No. 5 905 141 No. 5 618 919 No. 5 296 465 and No. 5 084 558. Aside from the commercial availability of Oxyglobin each of the foregoing U.S. patents are specifically incorporated herein by reference for the purposes of even further describing and enabling the preparation of Oxyglobin .

In using any of such low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes tissue oxygenation during the procedure will not be a problem. Many of the blood substitutes have an oxygen carrying capacity that is substantially unreduced in comparison to whole blood. However some reduction in oxygen carrying capacity can also be tolerated in certain circumstances as monitored by a physician. For example it is known in the art that some tissues can tolerate ischemia better than others. Moreover the duration of the procedure can be monitored so any potential reduction in oxygen carrying capacity will not cause an adverse effect. In this regard it is known that certain angioplasty techniques are already conducted in conjunction with a saline flush.

In regard to Oxyglobin this has a hemoglobin concentration of 13 g dl whereas normal hemoglobin has a concentration of 15 g dl. Any potential reduction in oxygen carrying capacity of Oxyglobin is shown in the present examples not to be problematic in myocardial imaging as the inventors were able to image the full thickness of the ventricle.

Irrespective of the particular product or formulation chosen the embodiments disclosed herein provide for the use of low scattering blood substitutes to effectively deliver oxygen while allowing optical imaging and therapy in the red and near infrared spectral range. The embodiments disclosed herein may be used in conjunction with a range of therapeutic and diagnostic procedures in which the interrogation of the target tissue would otherwise be obscured by blood.

This includes applications wherein the target tissue e.g. to be imaged is obscured by a whole blood barrier. For example for an OCT probe inside the coronary artery the target tissue to be imaged is the intima and other parts of the artery and the barrier is whole blood. The embodiments disclosed herein remove the scattering barrier by whole blood but still allows delivery of oxygen. In general one may be imaging through a sequence of tissue layers to a target layer. One or more of the intervening layers in the sequence may have a substantial blood fraction 1 100 that effectively blocks imaging of the target layer due to attenuation by scattering. By perfusing those layers with a low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute as in the embodiments disclosed herein such layers are kept oxygenated during the imaging of the targeted layer through the intervening layers. In some cases the targeted layer may also contain blood as in the ventricular imaging of the demonstration in which case the addition of the low scattering material allows imaging of that layer.

The embodiments disclosed herein thus provide for improvements in image quality or therapeutic effectiveness due to a reduction in scattering when replacing blood with a low scattering substitute. In the imaging embodiments it will now be possible to record depth resolved images of atherosclerotic plaques. The embodiments disclosed herein are particularly suitable for use in OCT imaging.

OCT is an interferometric technique based on a broadband light source and coherent cross correlation detection of light. The principles of OCT have been previously described Huang et al. 1991 . Although the embodiments disclosed herein provide many advantages over the prior art in performing OCT the following U.S. patents are specifically incorporated herein by reference for the purposes of even further describing and enabling OCT instrumentation the use of OCT in scattering media U.S. Pat. No. 5 991 697 No. 6 037 579 No. 6 252 666 No. 6 201 608 and No. 6 233 055 and for the purposes of even further describing and enabling OCT instrumentation and optical imaging techniques in general U.S. Pat. No. 6 191 862 No. 6 160 826 No. 6 134 003 No. 6 111 645 No. 6 053 613 No. 6 004 314 No. 5 795 295 No. 5 501 226 No. 5 493 109 No. 5 465 147 and No. 5 549 114.

Exemplary applications besides imaging include e.g. passing a guide wire through a coronary occlusion in interventional procedures such as angioplasty. The embodiments disclosed herein also have applications in combination with photodynamic therapy and spectroscopic methods such as Raman and reflectance spectroscopy and in far red and near infrared laser ablation. Although the embodiments disclosed herein provide numerous advantages the use of near infrared near IR or NIR in cardiovascular imaging is well established Cassis and Lodder 1993 Moreno et al. 2002 .

Naturally the embodiments disclosed herein can also be used in connection with therapeutic or diagnostic imaging procedures in animals particularly mammals. Other than humans exemplary animals include valuable or valued animals such as racehorses domestic pets and endangered species. Further examples include animals used to directly produce e.g. meat or indirectly produce e.g. milk food for human consumption.

In addition to humans another group of animals that the embodiments disclosed herein can be applied to is experimental animals such as mice rats rabbits and such like and also cats dogs sheep pigs etc. The use of the embodiments disclosed herein in such experimental animals is not limited to optimization in particular animal species before widespread application but extends to testing in an experimental setting.

For example the use of a genetically altered murine model for cardiovascular research has many advantages. First murine heart function is similar to that in humans. Second modest resource requirements make the model attractive for studies that require large sample sizes. Third maturation is readily attained over a short period of time. Finally because the murine genome is well characterized and can be easily modified cardiovascular molecular mechanisms can be investigated through gene alterations.

A reliable imaging technique to determine regional wall thickening in intact beating mouse hearts had not been realized prior to the embodiments disclosed herein. Conventional methods such as ultrasound and MRI are either too slow for murine heart rates too expensive for everyday lab use or do not provide sufficient spatial resolution for the small dimensions of the murine heart. The inventors reasoned that OCT as a promising new technique may be an appropriate imaging modality for murine cardiovascular studies. However prior to the embodiments disclosed herein the application of OCT to imaging through blood filled structures was severely limited. Through the embodiments disclosed herein however methods are now provided by which OCT can be applied to a dynamic non transparent biological structure such as the murine cardiovascular system.

The following examples are included to demonstrate preferred embodiments of the invention. It should be appreciated by those of skill in the art that the techniques disclosed in the examples which follow represent techniques discovered by the inventors to function well in the practice of the invention and thus can be considered to constitute preferred modes for its practice. However those of skill in the art should in light of the present disclosure appreciate that many changes can be made in the specific embodiments which are disclosed and still obtain a like or similar result without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The present example describes the criteria for designing or selecting low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes for use in improved imaging and related light based techniques and the validation of the selection criteria in in vitro studies.

In vitro measurements were performed to determine the scattering and absorption properties of murine blood blood substitute Oxyglobin and dilutions of murine blood with Oxyglobin . Oxyglobin is isotonic to blood prepared in a modified lactated Ringer s solution and should not result in any hemolysis. An additional study was performed to specify the hematocrit reduction required for adequate visualization of the full RV thickness. For both studies dilutions of fresh murine blood with Oxyglobin Biopure Corporation Cambridge Mass. www.biopure.com were prepared to a hematocrit of 40 30 20 10 8 5 and 3 . Pure blood hematocrit 40 and pure Oxyglobin hematocrit 0 samples were also prepared.

A Cary 5E UV Vis NIR spectrophotometer Varian Australia www.varianinc.com with a single integrating sphere was used for scattering and absorption measurements. Cuvettes holding 0.4 ml with an average path length of 0.72 mm were constructed using two microscope slides and cover slips. Cuvettes containing the dilutions were placed in the spectrophotometer.

Spectral dependent transmittance and reflectance values were obtained from the spectrophotometer. An inverse adding doubling program Prahl et al. 1993 specifically incorporated herein by reference was used to determine absorption and reduced scattering coefficients. The total attenuation coefficient of blood can be represented as 1 

While and differ by a directional factor Wilson 1995 is equivalent to the reciprocal distance between successive scattering events. Scattering is due to the presence of higher refractive index red blood cells in plasma while absorption is due to the presence of the chromophore hemoglobin Twersky 1970 Steinke and Sheppard 1986 . Blood from one or two pooled mice was used for each sample n 4 . Measurements were recorded at 20 C.

To determine the effect of OCT signal attenuation due to blood in the murine RV dilutions were placed between two glass slides separated by a 0.15 mm air space. The 0.15 mm distance was selected as a compromise between obtaining sufficient signal amplitude from the lower surface at high hematocrit e.g. 45 and a measurable attenuation at low hematocrit e.g. 5 . OCT images through the sample dilutions were recorded. Images were recorded for sample dilutions prepared at the same hematocrits as above i.e. 40 30 20 10 8 5 and 3 .

The results of scattering and absorption measurements using whole murine blood and dilutions with Oxyglobin are shown in . Optical properties were determined at the OCT source wavelength 1310 nm. The scattering properties of whole murine blood decreased from 1.801 0.245 to 0.253 0.176 l mm p

The results of in vitro determination of the effect of OCT signal attenuation due to blood in the murine RV were determined using a slide assembly to record OCT images of blood dilutions. In the design of the study two microscope slides separated by a 150 m air gap were assembled and contained various blood Oxyglobin mixtures. The imaging beam was incident on the top microscope slide. Signal attenuation at the lower interface relative to the upper surface was calculated as a ratio and in decibels. The slides appear further apart when light propagates through Oxyglobin compared to air. The greater apparent separation is due to the higher index of refraction of Oxyglobin necessitating a longer time to traverse the same physical distance.

The results from studies using the microscope slides are used to estimate the effect of OCT signal attenuation due to blood in the murine RV. Light attenuation in the intact murine RV with a fractional blood volume of 12.8 Kahler et al. 1999 and a hematocrit of 45 is nearly equivalent to that in a 5 image i.e. 0.12.times.0.45 5.4 in the microscope slide study. From the 5 image the inventors measured an attenuation of 0.214 13.4 dB over a 150 m thickness. For a 450 m thick RV murine myocardium Scherrer Crosbie et al. 1998 expected attenuation by blood is 40.2 dB 13.4 dB.times.450 m 150 m . The result indicates a substantial portion of the signal to noise ratio in the murine RV may be lost to scattering by blood.

Based on the foregoing calculations the inventors reasoned that in vivo therapeutic and diagnostic imaging methods would be significantly improved by reducing the hematocrit to about 5 or less whilst the oxygenation of the tissues should not be significantly reduced.

The present example in turns describes the successful in vivo imaging of cardiovascular tissues using low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes prepared according to the selection criteria in Example 1.

The OCT system employed in the present example is based on a single mode optical fiber Michelson interferometer and a semiconductor amplifier light source. The source has a center wavelength of 1310 nm and a spectral bandwidth of 60 nm. To visualize light incident on the murine myocardium with the unaided eye a wavelength division multiplexer was used to combine 630 nm red light with 1310 nm source. A rapid scan optical delay line Tearney et al. 1997 enables an image of a dynamic tissue such as a beating murine heart to be acquired at video rate. The axial and lateral resolutions were 16 m and 12 m respectively. One A scan a depth scan corresponded to 2 mm in air and comprised 5000 two byte data samples corresponding to a time of 2.5 ms at 2 MS s sampling rate. Labview software National Instruments Austin Tex. was used to process acquired signals. A band pass filter removed unwanted low and high frequency noise and an incoherent demodulation method was used to compensate for non linearities in the galvanometer scanning.

The protocol was approved by the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee at The University of Texas at Austin and San Antonio and conforms to Guidelines for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals NIH publication No. 86 23 revised in 1985 and Principles of Laboratory Animal Care published by the National Society for Medical Research .

Female C57 B6 mice n 6 weighing 19 to 22 g were anesthetized by administering urethane 1000 mg kg i.p. and etomidate 25 mg kg i.p. . Respiration was controlled through a tracheotomy cannula and the animals were mechanically ventilated with 100 Oat 95 breaths per min using a rodent ventilator Harvard Apparatus Model 683 South Natck Mass. . Needle electrodes were applied subcutaneously and connected to a Microelectrode AC amplifier Model 1800 A M Systems Carlsborg Wash. for ECG recording. The chest was entered by an anterior thoracotomy. An apical stab was made in the left ventricle with a 27 G needle through which Oxyglobin was introduced into the bloodstream. A right neck cutdown was performed and the right jugular vein exposed. The right jugular vein was nicked for blood removal or compressed for hemostasis. Separate sites to infuse Oxyglobin and bleed the mouse were chosen so the intravascular exchange could be performed simultaneously. In this fashion any potential hemodynamic instability was minimized.

The OCT light source was aimed at the right ventricular mid free wall with the red aiming beam. Baseline images were recorded at the native hematocrit. Hematocrit was determined by centrifugation followed by comparison to a calibration chart. Oxyglobin was used to replace whole blood in a 1 1 fashion in amounts of approximately 300 l at a time. This process was continued until a hematocrit of less than 5 was obtained as indicated in the design studies of Example 1. Images were recorded as described above and processed offline.

To determine the epicardial and endocardial boundaries gray scaled images were converted to binary images. Application of two dimensional median closed and open filters was necessary to avoid speckling effects present in the binary image. Subtracting depth positions of the two boundaries yielded an instantaneous thickening fraction that was then low pass filtered to derive a thickening vs. time curve.

As OCT measures optical path length thickness was scaled according to a weighted average of the indices of refraction for myocardium and Oxyglobin . An average index of refraction of 1.343 for Oxyglobin was measured by comparing measured OCT thickness to the actual thickness Tearney et al. 1995 Wang et al. 1996 . A published refractive index value of human LV myocardium 1.382 at 1300 nm was used for murine myocardium Tearney et al. 1995 . End diastolic thickness EDT was determined by noting the time of the R wave peak on the surface ECG. End systolic thickness EST was determined at the point of maximal thickness. Both EST and EDT values were averaged over 4 6 beats.

A two tailed Student s paired t test was used to compare the EDT and EST baseline and Oxyglobin hematocrit and baseline and Oxyglobin heart rates. Level of significance was taken as p

After reduction of hematocrit to below 5 thickness measurements of the right ventricles in the intact beating murine heart became possible using OCT imaging. The resultant thickness measurements from OCT imaging at less than 5 hematocrit are shown in Table 1. The HR in the presence of whole blood was 288 40 bpm at baseline and 312 42 bpm p NS after Oxyglobin reduced the hematocrit to less than 5 . At the reduced hematocrit the preparation was viable for several hours. The whole blood hematocrit was 52.4 3.8 at baseline and was reduced to 3.7 1.2 after replacement with Oxyglobin . The end diastolic thickness of the RV free wall was 0.352 0.047 m and the end systolic thickness was 0.458 0.051 m p

OCT images of the RV wall were determined at baseline in the presence of whole blood and after reduction of the hematocrit to less than 5 with Oxyglobin . In these studies the epicardial boundary was easily delineated in both baseline and low hematocrit images. However the endocardial boundary is only visible in the low hematocrit images. Epicardial motion was observed to increase at low hematocrit in several of the images.

A comparison of thickening versus time was determined in these studies. Wall thickness measurements and surface ECGs were determined from all six mice. Thickness measurements were only available after hematocrit reduction with Oxyglobin . Each measurement was recorded over one second. Instantaneous right ventricular wall thickening and surface ECG were possible after reducing the hematocrit to less than 5 with Oxyglobin . The peak of the R wave of the ECG occurs at the thinnest portion of the thickening curve in every image as expected. The percent thickening for the group was 30.8 7.5 Table 1 .

The data in the present example demonstrates for the first time that OCT can be used in conjunction with a blood substitute to measure instantaneous murine RV myocardial thickening. Two distinct approaches to reduce scattering by blood have been tested earlier. However prior to the embodiments disclosed herein the problem of light scattering due to blood was not overcome.

One previous study attempted to increase the refractive index of plasma to approach that of red blood cells Brezinski et al. 2001 . However even using a simple in vitro system in which blood is pumped through transparent tubing neither of the compounds tested were able to reduce scattering sufficiently such that they could be used in vivo or at practical volumes Brezinski et al. 2001 . The other earlier approach was to attempt to reduce attenuation due to scattering in the optical path using a saline bolus injection Fujimoto et al. 1999 . Since a saline bolus reduces oxygenation and only allows imaging for a short time duration the present inventors realized that a different approach was needed to prevent ischemia.

The inventors decided to replace red blood cells with a low or non scattering oxygen carrying blood substitute thereby removing the scattering objects red blood cells yet maintaining oxygenation. The modified hemoglobin based blood substitutes used in the present example were chosen because they are already approved for veterinary use and are expected to soon be approved for clinical use by the FDA Lok 2001 . Therefore regular use of such substances for many surgical and diagnostic procedures is feasible. Though total volume replacement was not expected during the development of blood substitutes Spahn and Pasch 2001 the physiological impact of such an exchange transfusion down to .about.2 Hct has been determined in sheep Vlahakes et al. 1990 . Post replacement hemodynamics were stable and animals survived with eventual regeneration of erythrocytes.

In OCT imaging light must penetrate the structure being studied. Light attenuation derives from both scattering and absorption. Results presented in indicate that red blood cells are a significant source of scattering and a marked reduction in hematocrit is required for light to penetrate the distance needed to image the intact murine RV. The data confirmed the inventors hypothesis showing that reduced light attenuation due to scattering could be accomplished by Oxyglobin blood substitution. The use of such artificial hemoglobins therefore allows the maintenance of physiological properties of the heart and other tissues during OCT imaging.

Although an understanding is not necessary to the practice of the embodiments disclosed herein the inventors choose to comment on the slight but non significant decrease observed in absorption as a function of hematocrit. The inventors working hypothesis is that the effect is due to a decrease in hemoglobin concentration. Typical physiological values for hemoglobin concentration are from 134 173 g L Roggan et al. 1999 . According to manufacturer specifications Oxyglobin has a hemoglobin concentration of 130 g L indicating a concentration decrease in the replacement process. Clearly however decreased absorption was a much smaller factor in signal improvement than was scattering over the range of hematocrit examined.

Table 1 presents RV thickening measurements after the incorporation of the blood substitute. Previously published results Scherrer Crosbie et al. 1998 of mean RV thickness measured with transesophageal echocardiography and MRI 0.41 0.11 mm and 0.46 0.10 mm respectively agree closely with the values in the present example. Attempts to quantify RV thickening fraction TF in other mammals yielded 25 in humans Bolli et al. 1990 and 14.1 in the canine RV Meier et al. 1980 . These results are also similar to those found for the murine RV in the current study.

Possible sources of error in thickness measurements include an imprecise geometry between the beam and myocardium. During a heartbeat some solid body rotation occurs so the instantaneous measured thickness will be different from the true thickness by the cosine of the angle between the normal of the heart surface and the beam e.g. 0.4 for a 5 deviation . In addition the thickness value depends on the average index of refraction used to convert measured optical path length to physical thickness. The inventors used a weighted average of refractive index between myocardium and the blood substitute Duck 1990 . In addition to the aforementioned errors RV thickness varies along the axis of the chamber. Measurements made at the canine conus and apex differ significantly from those made at the mid ventricular free wall Meier et al. 1980 . The inventors attempted to visibly align the beam at the mid ventricular level but the exact position may have deviated.

Imaging depths for OCT have been demonstrated at 1 2 mm in highly scattering tissues such as skin Schmitt et al. 1995 . Consequently one might expect a penetration depth greater than the thickness of the RV which is near 0.45 mm Scherrer Crosbie et al. 1998 . Because the computed signal attenuation by blood in the murine RV is substantial 40.2 dB expected signal attenuation double pass from the endocardium is severe and identification of the boundary difficult. This was demonstrated experimentally.

In the OCT images of the RV wall determined at baseline a clear epicardial boundary was observed in whole blood images. Since the change in the refractive index of air n 1 to myocardium n.apprxeq.1.38 is large the inventors expected and observed a well delineated epicardial boundary. OCT measures the intensity of back scattered light that occurs at such a change in index of refraction. The contrast at the endocardial boundary however is substantially reduced. First as the inventors calculation indicates severe light attenuation 40.2 dB occurs with a double pass through the myocardium so the back reflected signal amplitude is substantially reduced. Second the index of refraction change at the endocardium blood boundary is small compared to the air epicardium boundary. The refractive index of myocardium is much closer to blood than air. Only after hemodilution with Oxyglobin to 5 hematocrit was light attenuation reduced sufficiently so that the full thickness of the RV could be imaged.

Since blood does not account for the majority of myocardial volume 12.8 Kahler et al. 1999 it is a further surprising aspect of the embodiments disclosed herein that diminishing only the scattering coefficient of the blood would result in such a dramatic improvement in RV imaging depth. However the inventors estimated an expected attenuation due to scattering of OCT light by blood from the results obtained in the microscope slide studies. As described above the expected attenuation from blood alone in a 450 m thick murine RV Scherrer Crosbie et al. 1998 is approximately 100 times 40.2 dB . Because the reflection amplitude from the inner myocardial wall of the right ventricle will be less than that from the glass liquid boundary in the microscope slide studies the inventors expect the signal amplitude from the endocardium will be reduced more than 100 times relative to the air myocardial interface. Taken together these results indicate that substantial attenuation due to scattering by blood may be neutralized by reducing the hematocrit. With this technique one can increase signal amplitude sufficiently to reveal the full thickness of the murine RV myocardium in OCT images.

Many investigators have recognized the potential advantages of applying optical techniques to diagnose and treat cardiovascular diseases. For example optical techniques have been applied to assist in passing a guide wire through total coronary occlusions in interventional procedures Neet et al. 2000 . Photodynamic therapy is being investigated as a potential approach to affect a cytotoxic response in atherosclerotic plaque Rockson et al. 2000 . Inasmuch as spectroscopic methods are capable of providing biochemical specific information on tissue composition reflectance and Raman techniques have been applied to cardiovascular diagnostics with various degrees of success Naghavi et al. 2000 Romer et al. 1998 Brennan et al. 1997 . More recently OCT has been used in attempts to record depth resolved images of fibrous lesions on the surface of coronary arteries Brezinksi et al. 1996 Patwari et al. 2000 .

A limitation of such optical techniques is the strong attenuation due to scattering by blood that is frequently positioned between the probe and targeted tissue structure. Based on the results of the embodiments disclosed herein the application of these techniques can now be better facilitated by the use of a blood substitute with a scattering attenuation coefficient less than that of blood. An alternative class of agents perfluorocarbon emulsions has been proposed as a blood substitute Spahn and Pasch 2001 . Because the emulsions contain particles however light attenuation due to Rayleigh scattering will reduce the back reflected signal amplitude making perfluorocarbon emulsions in their current form unsuitable for such uses.

In conclusion low scattering oxygen carrying blood substitutes as exemplified by hemoglobin solutions can now be used to substantially improve optical imaging conditions in blood filled tissues. Improved imaging is possible because the light attenuation due to blood scattering is significantly diminished. The use of such blood substitutes provides a solution to the light scattering problems due to blood in light based in vivo therapeutic and imaging methods including OCT imaging and further solves the problem of reduced oxygenation such that such techniques can be applied to the cardiovascular system brain and other blood rich tissues.

All of the compositions and or methods disclosed and claimed herein can be made and executed without undue experimentation in light of the present disclosure. While the compositions and methods of this invention have been described in terms of preferred embodiments it will be apparent to those of skill in the art that variations may be applied to the compositions and or methods and in the steps or in the sequence of steps of the methods described herein without departing from the concept spirit and scope of the invention. More specifically it will be apparent that certain agents that are both chemically and physiologically related may be substituted for the agents described herein while the same or similar results would be achieved. All such similar substitutes and modifications apparent to those skilled in the art are deemed to be within the spirit scope and concept of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

The following references to the extent that they provide exemplary procedural or other details supplementary to those set forth herein are specifically incorporated herein by reference.

