---

title: Secure transaction card using biometrical validation
abstract: A validation scheme for use with a transaction card such as a calling card, et cetera, using personalized biometric profile data that is inherently coupled to the card owner/user. A configuration process is used for populating a profile database with sample voice or other biometric responses elicited from the owner/user in response to a plurality of questions relating to information uniquely linked to the user such as, e.g., name, age, hobbies, et cetera, or biometric responses such as fingerprints, retinal scans, and palm prints, or implanted ID chips. When a transaction is attempted using the transaction card, a determination is made if a voice profile validation is required for authentication. If so, a question from the plurality of questions used in the configuration process is randomly selected and directed to the user for a response. Access is provided only if a match between the response and corresponding sample is found. In a passive mode, the validation scheme may be utilized as an auxiliary fraud prevention scheme in addition to existing authentication systems.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047604&OS=09047604&RS=09047604
owner: VERIZON PATENT AND LICENSING INC.
number: 09047604
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100310
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 627 558 filed Jul. 28 2000 the contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to access control systems and methods and more particularly to a secure transaction card e.g. a calling card that uses biometric profiling for validation and access control.

Access control schemes are a key component in today s fraud detection systems used with respect to transactions that involve a transaction card and the like. For example as is well known calling or phone cards credit cards Automated Teller Machine ATM cards or debit cards et cetera typically require entering a correct Personal Identification Number PIN as an access control mechanism. To further increase security some transaction cards have an integrated circuit e.g. Smart Cards which facilitates encryption of a legitimate cardholder s personal identity information and other data.

Although there have been impressive advances in the existing access control schemes designed to reduce costs to a card issuing entity and its customers current solutions are not entirely satisfactory. First there is no sure way that any current system can guard against all forms of fraud and there is no tangible means of determining what the actual fraud costs are. Moreover the same technological advances that have increased security by means of encryption are also making it possible for illegitimately deciphering access codes etc.

In addition current access control schemes are typically static i.e. the same access code is used for each and every transaction by a user and accordingly the same verification scheme is also employed by the fraud detection system associated therewith. Thus the probability of a successful attack by an unauthorized party to decipher an access code or password increases thereby rendering the system vulnerable.

Those skilled in the art should appreciate that despite various improvements transaction card related fraud is still possible primarily because of two factors. First cards and their PINs can still be easily stolen or misplaced. And second any access control scheme used in connection with a card can be reverse engineered with luck and perseverance because the devices used as access control gatekeepers are typically alphanumeric codes passwords and the like which lend themselves to reproduction by somebody who does not own them.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to a method of validating a user for a transaction based on biometric profiling that is inherently and uniquely coupled to the user such that reproducing a correct response required for access control by an unauthorized party is virtually impossible. Initially a biometric profile is configured for the user which includes a plurality of biometric samples relating to the user such as e.g. voice responses to personalized questions et cetera. The biometric profile is associated with an indicium e.g. Personal Identification Number card number user name etc. assigned to the transaction card. When a transaction is attempted by the user at a terminal the user is biometrically interrogated by the system which directs a question that is randomly selected from the plurality of questions used in the configuration process. Thereafter the biometric response e.g. voiceprint generated with respect to the user in response to the step of biometrical interrogation is monitored in order to determine if the biometric response matches a biometric sample in the biometric profile of the user. If so the user is approved for the transaction and access is accordingly provided.

In another aspect the present invention is directed to a method of validating a user for a call to be effectuated over a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN using a calling card. The validation method commences by configuring a personalized profile for the user wherein the personalized profile includes a plurality of voice samples elicited from the user in response to a plurality of personalized questions directed to the user. Thereafter the personalized profile is associated with an indicium assigned to the calling card. When a calling card transaction is attempted by the user a determination is made if a voice verification is needed with respect to the user. If so the user is queried by an Automated Audio Response Unit ARU for a voice response to a question that is randomly selected from the plurality of personalized questions used in the configuration process. Thereafter the voice response is verified to determine if it matches a corresponding voice sample in the voice profile of the user. If so the user is approved for the calling card transaction.

In yet another aspect the present invention is directed to a fraud prevention method for use in a transaction card based system having a conventional authentication process. The method involves first determining by utilizing the conventional authentication process if a fraudulent transaction is being attempted in the transaction card based system by a user using a transaction card. If so the user is then biometrically interrogated in order to obtain a biometric sample from the user. The biometric sample is monitored whereby the user is denied access for the transaction in the transaction card based system if the biometric sample does not match an entry stored in a biometric profile database having information that is inherently associated with the transaction card s owner.

In yet further aspect the present invention is directed to an access control system for use with a transaction card based scheme. The access control system comprises a network operable with a terminal used for interacting with a user in association with a transaction card. A controller is disposed in the network to query the user when the user attempts a transaction using the transaction card. A secure access server is disposed in the network which responds to messages from the controller with respect to querying the user. A profile database is coupled to the server which includes a plurality of biometric samples inherently coupled to the user. The biometric samples are associated with an indicium assigned to the transaction card such that when the user attempts the transaction the controller queries the user for a response thereto. If the response does not match a corresponding entry in the profile database the user is denied access for the transaction.

In the drawings like or similar elements are designated with identical reference numerals throughout the several views and the various elements depicted are not necessarily drawn to scale. Referring now to depicted therein is a functional block diagram of an exemplary communications system provided in accordance with the teachings of the present invention for biometrically validating a user with respect to an on line transaction to be effectuated using a transaction card such as for example a calling card or phone card etc. A network is included in the system to exemplify a heterogeneous internetworking environment which may include any combination of the following network portions a wireline telecommunications network i.e. the Public Switched Telephone Network or PSTN one or several wireless telecommunications networks operating with known protocols e.g. Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Multi point Microwave Distribution System MMDS etc. and may also comprise an Internet Protocol IP based packet switched network PSN portion for providing Voice over IP VoIP telephony e.g. an H.323 network or a Session Initiation Protocol SIP network or the Internet. Those skilled in the art should further appreciate that the network is also illustrative and inclusive of any proprietary or customized operator networks used for data transport e.g. Local Area Networks LANs Wide Area Networks WANs Metropolitan Area Networks MANs Ethernet portions Token Ring portions etc. which interconnect the various nodes and equipment used for effectuating the biometrical validation scheme of the present invention as will be described in greater detail hereinbelow.

A plurality of telecommunications devices e.g. Internet phones SIP phones H.323 terminals Information Appliances POTS wireline phones mobile stations computers having suitable Telephony Application Programming Interfaces TAPIs etc. collectively referred to as terminals hereinafter are provided in the network system such that a user subscriber may place a call engage in a transaction or otherwise interact with the network system using an appropriate terminal and the transaction card issued to the user. Furthermore in accordance with the teachings of the present invention the terminals are provided with the capability to capture the user s biometric responses e.g. voice ocular or other biometric patterns etc. in addition to keypad inputs such as Dual Tone Multi Frequency DTMF codes. Four terminals T A T D are exemplified in wherein the user interacts with T B with respect to an on line transaction. A controller interacts with a secure card server provided in the network system which is coupled to a biometric profile database for the purpose of validating the user when the user attempts to engage in the on line transaction using the transaction card.

Similarly other biometric parameters or patterns may be profiled for the user in the configuration process step . Fingerprinting facial pattern recognition retinal signatures etc. may be used for populating the biometric profile database in conjunction with voice and DTMF key inputs.

Thereafter as indicated in step an association is made in the network system shown in between the user profile data DTMF and non DTMF and the transaction card issued to the user by an authorized entity e.g. Government agencies access cards telephone companies Telcos calling cards credit card companies credit bureaus access to credit reports financial institutions such as banks credit unions account access cards Internet businesses or e commerce entities secure access companies providing employee access to corporate or personal information or services and the like. It should be realized by those skilled in the art that by making the association between the personalized responses i.e. profiles and samples therein and the transaction card in accordance with the teachings of the present invention an inherent and intimate bonding is achieved between the card and the user such that it thwarts fraudulent unauthorized use of the transaction card. Accordingly the user does not have to worry about losing a card remembering a PIN or having to conceal a card number and the PIN associated therewith.

When a card related transaction is attempted by the user using a suitable terminal such as T B illustrated in decision block a determination is made in the network system e.g. controller whether a profile based validation is required for the transaction card decision block . If the profile based validation is not required the biometrical validation scheme of the present scheme may terminate step or in some exemplary embodiments may continue with other authentication schemes using PINs DTMF inputs etc. Also it should be apparent that such non biometric authentication procedures may be used in conjunction with the biometrical validation process provided in accordance herewith.

Continuing to refer to after determining that a profile based validation is required for the transaction card an appropriate network entity queries the user for a biometric printing step . For example for a voice based profile validation a question may be randomly selected from the questions that were used in the profile configuration process and be directed to the user for a response. By speaking the answer into the terminal a unique voiceprint response is obtained which is subsequently matched with the corresponding sample in the profile database decision block . Those skilled in the art should realize that more than one sample may be provided in the profile database for a particular question such that a range may be provided therewith and any normal variations in the response may be accounted for accordingly.

If there is no match found between the response and the sample access may be denied to the user for that transaction step . On the other access is provided where there is a match step so that the user may proceed with the transaction. Thereafter the biometrical validation scheme may cease step unless further transaction sessions are engaged. That is once authorized for a session re validation is not required. Once again a non biometric authentication procedure may be employed in conjunction with the present scheme whether or not access is provided based on the profile validation process.

Referring now to depicted therein is a functional block diagram of a presently preferred exemplary embodiment of a voice based validation scheme for use in a hybrid telecommunications network having a PSTN portion and a PSN portion . A plurality of wireline phones e.g. PH A PH C are conventionally provided with respect to the PSTN portion . A bridging switch is connected to the PSTN which sends calls to an Automated Call Distributor ACD based upon call association. The ACD routes the calls based upon its configuration information and in conjunction with an Intelligent Services Network Adjunct Processor ISNAP acting as a signaling gateway e.g. ISNAP A and ISNAP B to a suitable application platform which comprises an Automated Audio Response Unit ARU or a Manual Telecom Operator Console MTOC . It should be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that ARU and MTOC which may be co located or placed separately form a Call Center of a service provider. One or more corporate private Ethernet portions e.g. Ethernet A and Ethernet B may typically be provided at the Call Center also referred to as the Operator Center sometimes for furnishing connectivity between the ISNAP elements and the application platforms i.e. ARU and MTOC . It is also possible that these application platforms may be located on different LAN segments at the same site or may be located at different sites and a WAN may be suitably provided therebetween for data link connectivity.

Continuing to refer to the ACD operates as a switching system designed to queue and or distribute a large volume of incoming calls to the next available answering position whereby calls are categorized by the calling number and are directed to the appropriate processing entity. The ARU functions as a type of automated operator console comprising an Automated Call Processor ACP and a Network Information Distributed Services NIDS Audio Server NAS . ACP processes the calls and works in cooperation with NAS which provides voice scripting. NAS is attached to a phone tower where each call is received. Preferably the ARU includes several ports for processing the individual calls and uses the NAS for voice services. Accordingly it is NAS that plays and stores all audio files used by the ACP application to provide automated call processing. The NAS also provides audio detection for the ARU through DTMF tone and voice recognition. Thus whereas the NAS provides the audio interface the ACP furnishes the data interface. It should be appreciated that in general calling card calls are typically routed to the ARU via the ISNAP.

As has been briefly alluded to in the foregoing the ISNAP operates as a signaling gateway between the application platforms and ACD by utilizing appropriate algorithms to determine the call distribution among the operator positions for the ACD. This process is typically referred to as group selection and upon completion of the process the resulting operator work group is returned to the ACD. The work group specifies the operator group that is to treat the call and the call is subsequently forwarded to the next available console within the selected group to process the call.

In the presently preferred exemplary embodiment the MTOC the manual application platform runs operator console applications that support the Intelligent Services Network ISN products. A plurality of T1 Audio channels are provided between an Audio Channel Bank ACB and ACD the phone tower and MTOC respectively. The operator console applications use audio interface hardware not shown in this FIG. to receive audio via the ACB and get call data from the ISNAP via an Ethernet network connection. The console identifies incoming calls and through interaction with ISN databases provides the necessary scripting and call flow for the operator.

Still continuing to refer to the ARU is coupled to a Token Ring network which interconnects various telecommunications and processing equipment e.g. a mainframe computer MF a Web server and a NIDS server which may also be connected to one of the Ethernet portions provided at the Operator Network Center ONC . Preferably the NIDS system is designed to maintain dynamic connections between remote applications and services residing on an ONC LAN. NIDS server provides access to databases and validation service applications via a client server relationship. Typically billing data customer information service data such as call restriction data are included in these databases.

In accordance with the teachings of the present invention a Secure Voice Card SVC server is preferably provided as a NIDS node on the Ethernet portion A to which the ARU is also connected. Those skilled in the art should understand upon reference hereto that the SVC server is analogous to the secure card server provided in the network system of and runs an SVC service application which provides access to an SVC customer profile database for configuration and biometrical validation purposes. The ARU accordingly operates as a client to the SVC server with respect to the presently preferred exemplary embodiment of the voice based validation scheme of the present invention.

The Web server provided in the network operates as a gateway towards the PSN portion e.g. the Internet . A plurality of IP compatible devices e.g. T A T C are available for the user to place calls engage in e commerce transactions etc. using his transaction card. Appropriate means such as e.g. headsets microphones are also included with the terminals to facilitate interrogation of the user and user voice sampling with respect to the voice based validation scheme.

The general operation of the voice based validation scheme for use in the network system described above may now be set forth at this juncture. First the card user places a calling card based call in a conventional manner i.e. the user listens for chime and enters the card number. Thereafter the user may press the key to bypass the PIN number to enter a voice profile system. Even if the PIN is entered which is optional the scheme may be aware that the user has a voice profile and could optionally require voice based validation for the transaction being attempted. The system generates a random query from the user s personal profile i.e. select a single entry among the plurality of entries in the SVC database prompting the user for input. The user is then required to speak the response or enter appropriate DTMF keys. Card access may be granted for the matching voiceprint DTMF response or both. During or after the validation process the terminating number or its speed dial number may be entered and upon subsequent transaction authorization the call may be connected to the terminating number whereby upon answering pick up a conversation takes place over the voice trunk. Once the system is accessed following authorization subsequent calls may be made or mis dialed numbers could be re dialed without requiring further authentication. That is only one validation event may be required for a single session which may include several different calls.

If a voice profile for the user is found decision block the ARU selects a question or item from the profile randomly and queries the user for a response step . On the other hand if a voice profile for the user is not available a further determination is made by the system as to whether a voice profile is required decision block . If so the ARU informs the user that voice profile is needed and preferably may prompt the user to access the voice profile configuration subsystem step .

Referring back to the decision block if the PIN is entered by the user another determination is made decision block as to whether a voice profile is required for validation. If YES the flow control of the validation scheme passes to step wherein a voice profile look up is performed for the card based on card indicia as explained hereinabove. On the other hand if no voice profile based validation is required the ARU simply proceeds to validate the card based on the PIN entry step . If the card is determined to be an invalid card decision block the flow control returns to step whereby the user is informed that the card is invalid and subsequently the ARU prompts the user for another card number or a correct card number.

Referring again to the decision block if the voice profile is not required however another determination is made decision block as to whether a PIN entry is required from the user that is whether or not the user previously entered a PIN as determined by the decision block . If not the flow control returns to the path where the ARU proceeds to validate the card based on the PIN entry as determined by the decision block . If no PIN has been entered on the other hand the decision block determines that a PIN is required and subsequently the ARU prompts the user for PIN entry step . If the PIN is entered at this point decision block the flow control of the validation scheme again passes to step whereby the ARU proceeds to validate the card and its PIN. If for some reason the PIN is not entered at this point the ARU preferably informs the user that a PIN is required step and the flow control accordingly goes back to step where by the user is prompted for a new card number entry.

Returning to step wherein the ARU selects a question or item from the profile randomly and queries the user for a response the user accordingly responds by speaking an answer step . Those skilled in the art should realized that the voice profile database may be augmented with DTMF data also and accordingly a DTMF response may be entered by the user at this juncture.

Upon receiving the voice sample response from the user the ARU proceeds to validate the voice sample response by matching it to a corresponding voiceprint associated with the question selected for query in the SVC database step . If a match is found the user is determined to be a valid user decision block and the flow control preferably passes to the decision block wherein a determination is made if a PIN is also required. It should be apparent that in some implementations only voice based validation may be required thereby bypassing the PIN entry at this juncture and proceeding directly to the transaction i.e. calling card based call.

If the user is determined to be an invalid user per decision block the ARU informs the user that access is denied step and the flow control preferably passes to step for prompting the user for another card number or a correct card number.

Returning to block upon validating the user based on voiceprinting and or PIN entry as described in the foregoing the flow control passes to the decision block wherein a determination is made as to whether a terminating number i.e. B number is dialed during the validation process. If so the call is connected to the device terminal identified by the terminating number step . Otherwise the ARU issues a double dial tone so that the user may enter the terminating number at this point step . Subsequently the user dials the complete terminating number or an abbreviated speed dial number step . The call is then connected to that number as set forth in step .

Thereafter the phone conversation bearer traffic takes place over the voice trunk step until disconnected decision block . After getting disconnected intentionally or otherwise a billing process is effectuated for computing the toll charge associated with the call step . If the user presses a redial key e.g. a key decision block or a next call key e.g. a key decision block the flow control returns to step whereby an appropriate terminating number is provided and the call is subsequently connected thereto. This process may take place until the user hangs up the phone. Accordingly it should be realized that once the user is validated by the voice profile system for a session the user may continue to redial or enter other terminating numbers without having to be re validated for the session.

Referring now to depicted therein is a flow chart of the voice profile configuration subsystem process for use in the voice based validation method described hereinabove. It should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the voice profile configuration access process may preferably be comprised of a manual access method A user directed method wherein the user enters a pre defined key which interfaces with an automated access method B which is directed based on the lack of a user profile as described hereinbelow.

In a presently preferred exemplary embodiment of the present invention it is preferably required that a user voice profile database and service node be available along with a card configuration item that specifies the required use of the database. The user database record definition could be present in the database or could be built dynamically upon initial entry into the configuration subsystem .

In the manual access method A a user profile lookup is performed per card entry key step . If a profile is found decision block the ARU proceeds with a random query process based on the profile step . After the user speaks an answer in response thereto the ARU proceeds to validate the user s voice sample based on the SVC profile step . If the user is determined to be a valid user decision block the flow control passes to step wherein the ARU prompts the user for PIN input. This step is also reached when the decision block determines that there is no pre existing voice profile for the user i.e. the profile needs to be created for the first time in the system . Furthermore in the presently preferred exemplary embodiment of the present invention the automated access method B also commences with this step step .

After determining that a PIN is entered by the user decision block responsive to the ARU prompting step the ARU proceeds to validate the card and its PIN step . If the card is determined to be a valid card decision block the ARU prompts the user for voice samples by directing personalized questions the order of which may be random for each configuration access to the user and obtaining appropriate responses therefor. Thereafter the voice samples are added to the updated SVC profile database step . The user may subsequently complete the configuration process by hanging up the phone terminal used for accessing the configuration subsystem or by pressing a pre defined key e.g. to return to step in .

If the card is determined to be an invalid card as determined by the decision block the ARU chimes and prompts the user for another card number or a correct card number step . When the user enters the card number and optional PIN at this point step the ARU proceeds to validate the card again. The configuration system access process repeats until either a valid card is entered or the user hangs up.

Referring back to the decision block in the manual entry process A if the user is determined to be an invalid user the ARU informs the user that access is denied step and prompts for the card number and PIN step as before. Optionally the system could initiate a fraud alarm and or effect a forced hang up in the event of consecutive failed attempts to access the system. Accordingly when the voice profile is configured for the first time a card indicium is preferably used for authorizing initial access to the SVC database.

Subsequent access to the configuration system once initialized by the user will typically only be provided by the manual access method since the automated access method in a preferred embodiment only applies when the system detects an invalid or undefined profile. Also it should be noted that subsequent access initiated by the user will be gained preferably only through biometric means i.e. access would not be granted by the card assigned PIN since profile data is available for validation purposes.

Based on the foregoing it should be appreciated that the present invention advantageously provides a highly effective transaction card validation system which intimately couples the card with the legitimate user s inherently personal information such as voice samples and other biometric profiles. Those skilled in the art should recognize that the random nature of the user profile query and the unique user voiceprint s essentially guarantee that only the legitimate owner can be the card user for any given transaction. Additionally the user biometric validation method of the present invention is independent of the conventional PIN based validation methodology and the teachings of the present invention may be advantageously coupled with other fraud detection mechanisms in order to further enhance security. It should be realized that today s network and server performance and advanced voice recognition and other biometric pattern recognition technologies permit fairly rapid access times for the card validation scheme of the present invention.

Those skilled in the art should further appreciate that both card issuing companies and their customers benefit from the card validation scheme described herein. The cost savings realized due to fraud prevention will balance any delays in access times and customers can justify the card access overhead by the added comfort that their card is secure at all times they would no longer have to worry about losing a card remembering a PIN or having to conceal a card number and its PIN in a wallet or other personal effect s or have to deal with any fraud aftermath. Moreover because the profiles can be modified periodically or each time the card is used for a transaction with new options responses card access security is further buttressed.

It is believed that the operation and construction of the present invention will be apparent from the foregoing Detailed Description. While the method and system shown and described have been characterized as being preferred it should be readily understood that various changes and modifications could be made therein without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the following claims. For example although the presently preferred exemplary embodiment of the present invention has been described as an active fraud prevention system it is possible to implement the present invention in a passive mode i.e. as an auxiliary system which would intervene only in the event of fraud detection by an existing system. In such a scenario the validation system of the present invention would query the user to verify access only when fraud is suspected.

In addition while the voice based validation scheme for a calling card transaction has been particularly exemplified hereinabove it should be apparent to those skilled in the art upon reference hereto that the teachings of the present invention may be advantageously practiced in the context of accessing personal information such as a bank account employment records medical records credit reports or private club membership materials e commerce accounts brokerage accounts and the like. Accordingly it should be clearly understood that these and other variations substitutions additions re arrangements and modifications are contemplated to be within the ambit of the present invention whose scope is solely limited by the claims set forth below.

