---

title: Legal compliance, electronic discovery and electronic document handling of online and offline copies of data
abstract: Systems and methods of electronic document handling permit organizations to comply with legal or regulatory requirements, electronic discovery and legal hold requirements, and/or other business requirements. The systems described provide a unified approach to data management that enables compliance, legal and IT personnel to focus efforts on, e.g., a single data repository. The systems permit users to define and utilize information governance policies that help automate and systematize different compliance tasks. In some examples, organizations may push data in any third-party data format to the systems described herein. The systems may permit compliance or IT personnel to detect when a legally sensitive production file has been changed or deleted. The systems may also provide a unified dashboard user interface. From a dashboard interface, users may perform searches, participate in collaborative data management workflows, obtain data management reports, and adjust policies. Other elements and features are disclosed herein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08396838&OS=08396838&RS=08396838
owner: CommVault Systems, Inc.
number: 08396838
owner_city: Oceanport
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100907
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 874 122 filed on Oct. 17 2007 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR COLLABORATIVE SEARCHING now U.S. Pat. No. 7 792 789 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 950 376 filed on Dec. 4 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 140 789 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CREATING COPIES OF DATA SUCH AS ARCHIVE COPIES now U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008 0229037 this application also claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 243 867 filed on Sep. 18 2009 entitled LEGAL COMPLIANCE ELECTRONIC DISCOVERY AND ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT HANDLING FOR COPIES OF DATA SUCH AS ARCHIVE COPIES WITHIN A DATA STORAGE NETWORK each of these applications is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

Corporations and other organizations routinely copy data produced and or stored by their computer systems in order to provide additional protection for the data to comply with regulatory requirements or for other business reasons. For example a company might retain data from computing systems related to e commerce such as databases file servers web servers and so on. The company may also retain data from computing systems used by employees such as those used by an accounting department marketing department engineering and so on. The data may include for example personal data financial data customer client patient data audio visual data textual data and other types of data. Organizations may also retain data related to the correct operation of their computer systems such as operating system files application files user settings and so on.

Current storage management systems employ a number of different methods to retain and archive data. For example data can be stored in primary storage as a primary copy that includes production data or in secondary storage as various types of secondary copies including as a recovery copy continuous data protection CDP copy backup copy a snapshot copy a hierarchical storage management copy HSM an archive copy and other types of secondary copies.

A primary or active copy of data is generally a production copy or other live version of the data which is used by a software application and is generally in the native format of that application. Primary copy data may be maintained in a local memory disk or other high speed storage device that allows for relatively fast data access if necessary. Such primary copy data is typically intended for short term retention e.g. several hours or days before some or all of the data is stored as one or more secondary copies for example to prevent loss of data in the event a problem occurs with the data stored in primary storage.

Secondary or passive copies include point in time data and are typically intended for longer term retention e.g. weeks months or years depending on retention criteria for example as specified in a storage policy or other policies as further described herein before some or all of the data is moved to other storage or discarded. Secondary copies may be indexed so users can browse search and restore the data at another point in time. A secondary copy may be stored on disk tape or other types of media. After certain primary copy data is backed up a pointer or other location indicia such as a stub may be placed in the primary copy to indicate the current location of that data. Further details may be found in the assignee s U.S. Pat. No. 7 107 298 filed Sep. 30 2002 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ARCHIVING OBJECTS IN AN INFORMATION STORE.

One type of secondary copy is a backup copy. A backup copy is generally a point in time copy of the primary copy data stored in a backup format as opposed to in native application format. For example a backup copy may be stored in a backup format that is optimized for compression and efficient long term storage. Backup copies generally have relatively long retention periods and may be stored on media with slower retrieval times than other types of secondary copies and media. In some cases backup copies may be stored at an offsite location.

Another form of secondary copy is a snapshot copy. From an end user viewpoint a snapshot may be thought as an instant image of the primary copy data at a given point in time. A snapshot may capture the directory structure of a primary copy volume at a particular moment in time and may also preserve file attributes and contents. In some embodiments a snapshot may exist as a virtual file system parallel to the actual file system. Users may gain a read only access to the record of files and directories of the snapshot. By electing to restore primary copy data from a snapshot taken at a given point in time users may also return the current file system to the prior state of the file system that existed when the snapshot was taken.

A snapshot may be created nearly instantly using a minimum of file space but may still function as a conventional file system backup. A snapshot may not actually create another physical copy of all the data but may simply create a table of pointers that are able to map files and directories to specific disk blocks. The table of pointers may indicate which blocks are unchanged and if a block has changed the table may point to a location where the previous unchanged version of the block has been stored copy on write .

An HSM copy is generally a copy of the primary copy data but typically includes only a subset of the primary copy data that meets a certain criteria and is usually stored in a format other than the native application format e.g. compressed deduplicated and converted to a generic format . For example an HSM copy might include only that data from the primary copy that is larger than a given size threshold or older than a given age threshold and that is stored in a backup format. Often HSM data is removed from the primary copy and a stub is stored in the primary copy to indicate its new location. When a user requests access to the HSM data that has been removed or migrated systems use the stub to locate the data and often make recovery of the data appear transparent even though the HSM data may be stored at a location different from the remaining primary copy data.

An archive copy is generally similar to an HSM copy however the data satisfying criteria for removal from the primary copy is generally completely removed with no stub left in the primary copy to indicate the new location i.e. where it has been moved to . Archive copies of data are generally stored in a backup format or other non native application format. In addition archive copies are generally retained for very long periods of time e.g. years and in some cases are never deleted. Such archive copies may be made and kept for extended periods in order to meet compliance regulations or for other permanent storage applications.

Typical data storage systems create a first secondary backup copy from a production copy for short term data recovery and after a certain time send a copy to an archive for long term storage e.g. to comply with regulatory retention requirements. Thus organizations are storing large amounts of data in their data archives at great expense.

A copy of data may be online or offline with respect to an organization. An online copy is a copy whose entire contents are readily accessible over the organization s network without the need for physically recalling or retrieving physical storage media that stores the copy e.g. from an off site location and without the need for manual physical human intervention. An online copy may include for example a production copy stored on the organization s mail server a snapshot copy stored on magnetic storage media that is connected to the organization s storage area network an archive copy stored on a cloud storage site that is accessible by the organization s network and a backup copy stored on a tape that is managed by a tape autoloader in the organization s tape library. An offline copy is one whose entire contents are not readily accessible over an organization s network because the physical storage media that stores the copy must be physically re called or retrieved e.g. from an off site location or because human intervention is required to retrieve the copy. An example of an offline copy is an archive copy that has been stored on tape media that has been sent to a secure offsite location. In such an example in order to access the entire contents of the archive copy the tape copy must be retrieved from the offsite location e.g. via a physical shipment from the off site location and then the tape must be re loaded into an on site tape library. Another example of an offline copy is a secondary copy stored on a USB flash memory device that an employee has stored in her desk drawer. In such a scenario the employee must physically re connect the USB memory device to her computer before it will be accessible over the organization s network.

Companies are often required to retain documents in archive files and or implement various data management tasks in order to comply with various data regulations and avoid enforcement actions. For example when a company is in litigation the company may be required to retain documents related to the litigation. Employees are often asked not to delete any correspondence emails or other documents related to the subject matter of the litigation. Recently enacted amendments to Federal Rules of Civil Procedure FRCP place additional document retention burdens on a company. According to Gartner Several legal commentators believe that the heart of the proposed changes to FRCP is the formal codification of electronically stored information ESI and the recognition that the traditional discovery framework dealing with paper based documents is no longer adequate. Legal discovery of electronic information has emerged as a key requirement for today s enterprise in recent years and the new federal rules both strengthen and expand those requirements.

As another example regulatory authorities all over the world are intensifying the monitoring and enforcement of specific electronic recordkeeping requirements. Such enforcement may relate to EU Data Protection EU Data Privacy Environmental Protection Act Employment Act Health Safety Executive enforcement in relation to standards including the British Standards Institution BSI BIP 0008 ISO IEC 17799 ISO 15489 BS 7799 ISO 9000 as well as specific legislation on company records and anti terrorism. There are also other concerns for organizations that must comply with U.S. specific legislation such as the Sarbanes Oxley Act SEC Rule 17a 4 NASD 3110 and 3111 Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act HITECH Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act HIPAA 1996 Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 Gramm Leach Bliley Act GLBA Financial Institution Privacy Protection Act of 2001 and the Financial Institution Privacy Protection Act of 2003. For federal government and military institutions compliance means conforming to the retention schemas and guidelines imposed by records management authorities the recommendations of national archives or specific record statutes. For example the US Department of Defense records keeping requirements DoD 5015.2 and DoD 8320.02 impose a formal taxonomy where compliance is about aligning records to specific retention and disposition policies based on the way they are classified and assigned metadata. European local government classification schemas including the UK LGCS as well as countless local US state classification models offer guidelines for the management of paper and electronic structured and unstructured information records.

In summary a single organization may be subject to several data management regulations each of which may 

In order to comply with regulations companies also need provisions for finding retained documents. Traditional search engines accept a search query from a user and generate a list of search results. The user typically views one or two of the results and then discards the results. However some queries are part of a longer term collaborative process. For example when a company receives a legal discovery request or other type of compliance request the company is often required to mine all of the company s data for documents responsive to the request. This typically involves queries of different bodies of documents lasting days or even years. Many people are often part of the query such as company employees law firm associates and law firm partners. The search results must often be viewed by more than one of these people in a well defined set of steps i.e. a workflow . For example company employees may provide documents to a law firm and associates at the law firm may perform an initial reading of the documents to determine if the documents contain relevant information. The associates may flag documents with descriptive classifications such as relevant or privileged. Then the flagged documents may go to a law firm partner who will review each of the results and ultimately respond to the compliance request with the set of documents that satisfies the request.

Some regulations might also require that a query be applied on an ongoing basis to new data as it is created within an organization. For example when subject to a legal discovery request a company might be required to continue to mine new emails as they are created to determine if they are responsive to the discovery request. In such a scenario the company may need to then direct any new responsive emails into the workflow described above. As another example an organization might be required to continuously monitor its officer s correspondence and documents for indications of insider trading.

Collaborative document management systems exist for allowing multiple users to participate in the creation and revision of content such as documents. Many collaborative document management systems provide an intuitive user interface that acts as a gathering place for collaborative participants. For example Microsoft Sharepoint Server provides a web portal front end that allows collaborative participants to find shared content and to participate in the creation of new content and the revision of content created by others. In addition to directly modifying the content of a document collaborative participants can add supplemental information such as comments to the document. Many collaborative document management systems also provide workflows for defining sets of steps to be completed by one or more collaborative participants. For example a collaborative document management system may provide a set of templates for performing common tasks and a collaborative participant may be guided through a wizard like interface that asks interview style questions for completing a particular workflow.

The foregoing examples of some existing problems with data storage archiving and restoration are intended to be illustrative and not exclusive. Other limitations will become apparent to those of skill in the art upon a reading of the Detailed Description below.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosures as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Examples of the technology provided below describe systems and methods of electronic document handling that permit organizations to comply with legal or regulatory requirements electronic discovery and legal hold requirements and or other business requirements. Although described in connection with certain examples the systems described herein are applicable to and may employ any wireless or hard wired network or data storage system that stores and conveys data and information from one point to another including communication networks enterprise networks storage networks and so on.

The systems herein enable users to archive backup and replicate data within a common infrastructure creating a single unified repository for the majority of an organization s regulated data including e mail files backups archives SharePoint documents and databases. The single uniform repository may span time versions copies platforms and locations both logical storage locations and geographical locations and storage cells.

The systems described herein provide many benefits in data retrieval collaborative search legal compliance and E discovery. For example in a discovery request certain emails are to be located and processed via a specified workflow. Typical archive systems storing data in boxes of tapes and other media may need to check each and every tape in order to discover a required email. Using the secondary copy techniques described herein the system may quickly and easily satisfy the request. For example in creating a secondary copy e.g. an archive copy the system reduces redundant files and indexes the content of the files. Thus when a user of the system provides search information for the certain emails such as a sender s name or keywords in the body of the email the system may easily search the content of the secondary copy using the index.

The systems described herein also provide a unified approach to data management that enables compliance legal and IT personnel to focus their efforts on a single data repository eliminating the need to search and preserve information in both backup and archiving applications. As described in greater detail herein the systems permit personnel to perform collaborative searches of distributed data sources including production copies online and offline secondary copies and third party archives that may be distributed throughout an organization and over distinct geographies and networks. The systems also provide personnel with tools for implementing collaborative workflows that implement various data management steps in a compliance task. These searches and workflows both cover a data set that may span time versions copies platforms and locations both logical storage locations and geographical locations .

The systems herein permit users to define and utilize information governance policies that help automate and systematize different compliance tasks. For examples as described herein users may define and or utilize classification policies workflow policies retention policies and or reporting policies. Since classification workflow retention and reporting policies may be independently created and modified the systems herein may responsively adapt to regulatory changes without the need for re indexing and or re classifying data. The systems herein may also provide policy templates that simplify the creation application and modification of such policies.

Additionally in some cases the systems may permit indexing of production data that permits the system to search for and lock down live production data that may be under the control of employees. Additionally the systems may permit compliance or IT personnel to detect when a legally sensitive production file has been changed or deleted without the need for invasive client side software.

In some examples the systems provide IT with the tools to initiate an effective legal hold the ability to lock down electronically stored information in response to anticipated litigation or other compliance requests. In some cases the system may also provide for legal hold notifications wherein data custodians are automatically notified that their documents or files are being preserved for compliance reasons.

In some examples organizations may push data in any third party data format to the systems described herein. In such examples the systems may then index classify search retain and or perform other data management functions upon the data. In this way the systems may perform the value added features described herein even on archive copies that were generated using third party archival software.

The systems also provide a unified dashboard user interface. From a dashboard interface users may perform searches participate in collaborative data management workflows obtain data management reports or other business views of data including audit ready chain of custody reports and adjust policies. From this interface users may also obtain a time machine view of offline and online copies as they existed at various points in time.

Various examples of the technology will now be described. The following description provides specific details for a thorough understanding and enabling description of these examples. One skilled in the art will understand however that the system may be practiced without many of these details. Additionally some well known structures or functions may not be shown or described in detail so as to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the relevant description of the various examples.

The terminology used in the description presented below is intended to be interpreted in its broadest reasonable manner even though it is being used in conjunction with a detailed description of certain specific examples of the system. Certain terms may even be emphasized below however any terminology intended to be interpreted in any restricted manner will be overtly and specifically defined as such in this Detailed Description section.

A compliance engine works in conjunction with the data storage system to perform various functions that facilitate an organization s compliance with regulatory requirements including E discovery requirements. For example as described in greater detail herein the compliance engine may provide functionalities such as collaborative searching automated classification of data data mining collaborative data management and workflows legal holds and related notifications data audits and reports and dashboard views of an organization s data. As described herein a data administrator or similar user within an organization may utilize the compliance engine to perform such functionalities upon the entire unified corpus of data generated by the organization including production data third party data and copies in secondary storage .

Referring to a block diagram illustrating a data management system is shown. Unless described otherwise herein aspects of the system may be practiced with conventional systems. Thus the construction and operation of the various blocks shown in the Figures may be of conventional design and need not be described in further detail herein to make and use the system because such blocks will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art. One skilled in the relevant art can readily make any modifications necessary to the blocks of the Figures based on the detailed description provided herein.

The system may include a client with a file system that creates modifies and or updates originally created data i.e. data that is first created by file system . The created data may also be called herein a production copy of the data or more simply production data. For example the file system may create a word processing document that is stored in the file system and accessed by a user of the file system. Alternatively or additionally although not shown an Exchange server a SQL database or similar data generating application running on the client may originally create data that is also called a production copy. As an example an Exchange server may create an email message data object within a larger .pst file. As shown the file system and or a data generating application may also create metadata that is associated with a production copy of the data. Examples of metadata include for example an indication of users who have created accessed or modified the data an application that generated the data a location of the data a file type the times that the data was created accessed and or modified an indication of which users are custodians of the data application specific metadata e.g. header information such as an email recipient sender or subject line the location of the data within a file system and or file e.g. within a .pst file a time the data was deleted from a file system or file file security permissions and or settings a file name and a file size.

The system may perform various data storage operations and data transfers in order to make a secondary copy of the original data in secondary storage such as a backup or recovery copy using a media agent or similar secondary storage computing device. For example the system may copy data on a daily or weekly basis to secondary storage . In the example of the secondary copy in secondary storage contains data for a first week a second week and or a third week . A backup or recovery secondary copy of the original data will generally be stored in online secondary storage to permit faster recovery of a client. However in some examples the secondary copy may be stored in less accessible offline secondary storage.

The system may also create an index of the content of the data including metadata associated with the data using a client side connector and or a content tracking engine . As described herein using the index the system may facilitate searches of the content of the data such as searches of the data content metadata associated with the data and so on. In some examples the content tracking engine generates index information by accessing the contents or metadata of the secondary copy . In some examples a client side connector continuously periodically or intermittently generates index information by performing content indexing of the original data and or by retrieving metadata from the file system and or a data generating application such as an Exchange server. In some examples the client side connector generates index information prior to the creation of a secondary copy of the original data. In some examples the client side connector may send indexing information to the index directly as shown or through intermediaries such as the media agent . In some examples the client side connector and or content tracking engine indexes content using commercially available indexing technologies such as MICROSOFT F.A.S.T. .

In addition to storing content information and other metadata the index may also store chain of custody information for data that reflects how a document or data object has been accessed and or modified over time. For example if a document is modified to remove a virus the content tracking engine may update the index to reflect how the document was modified. As another example if a document is converted to a different format e.g. if a word processing document is converted to a plain text document the content tracking engine may update the index to reflect this conversion operation. In some examples the system detects modifications to a document or data object by detecting a changed hash value. For example during a secondary storage operation e.g. deduplication the system may need to calculate the hash for a document for example to determine if the system already has a copy of the document stored therein. If the calculated hash does not match a previously stored hash for the same document it means that the contents of the document have changed. This modification may then be noted in the index to provide improved chain of custody information. Additionally when a particular data object e.g. a primary data object is aged off the system the index may continue to maintain the metadata associated with that primary data object. The index may then link the metadata of this primary object to a secondary copy of the primary data object. The index may also store other information regarding the provenance of a file or document e.g. by indicating which documents were predecessor versions of the same file or document. As yet another example the index may indicate how a file or document has moved through various storage locations and or storage media e.g. from disk then to an on site tape library and then to an off site tape storage location . In this way the index maintains a referential model that provides a complete audit trail linking metadata back to its original data object. The index may do so without needing to maintain the original data object in storage. Thus by storing chain of custody information in the index the system may reduce the total storage requirements of the organization while still ensuring compliance with recordkeeping requirements.

Additionally the system may create an archive copy of the original data using an archive copy component such as a media agent used to create archive copies. The archive copy created by the archive copy component may be stored either online or offline. The archive copy component may communicate and interact with the content tracking engine so that the archived data is also indexed within the index and thus searchable. The archive component may also utilize a data redundancy component that reduces or removes some or all of the redundant data under management by the system e.g. data within the secondary copies when creating the archive copy . Such a process may be referred to herein as single instancing or alternatively deduplication. The system may also encrypt the data via an encryption system either during or after the data is single instanced.

In some cases the system enables organizations to create an archive copy of their data without using primary system resources such as resources near or located within the file system e.g. by creating the archive copy of the data from the secondary copies . In such cases the system does not require that the secondary copy is in a format that is suitable for archival purposes. Furthermore the system may index the archived data so that the index includes indexing information for the archived data. The system may furthermore eliminate or reduce any unnecessary copying of data to the data archive via the redundancy component .

In some cases the system may create archive copies of data from an original data set or primary copy. For example a file system containing the original data set may receive a request from a user or another process to initiate an archiving process such as via a graphical user interface that is in communication with the file system via an application programming interface API . The GUI may receive a request from a user such as a system administrator to archive a subset of the primary copy such as a file a group of files and so on. For example the system administrator may select via a GUI a set of data comprised of one or more files directories or logical volumes to archive. Upon receiving the request the system instructs the archive copy component to create an archive copy of the selected data files. The system may single instance or deduplicate data using the redundancy component encrypt data using the encryption component and or index the content of the files using the content tracking engine when creating an archive copy of the files.

In some cases the system may create new archive copies from previously stored or archived copies of data sets which may include third party archive data . For example the system may receive a data set that was archived using a third party archival software or service and instruct the archive copy component to archive the data set as described above. When creating a new archive copy the system may single instance or deduplicate the files using the redundancy component encrypt data using the encryption component and or index the data using content tracking engine . The new archive copy created by the system may be stored on the storage media that stored the previous archive e.g. by overwriting the media and or may be stored elsewhere. In this way the system may perform the various functionalities described herein even upon data that was not originally backed up or archived by native media agents within the system. As an example the system may process archive copies created by third party software and stored on multiple tapes. In some examples the system does not create a new archive copy but simply indexes the existing archive data so that it may be effectively searched classified and utilized in data management workflows. As another example the system may be implemented as a cloud based software service that receives and processes archive copies that were created by third party archiving software.

The system also includes a compliance engine that facilitates various compliance tasks as described herein. Among other functionality the compliance engine may facilitate searches from end users via an end user search component such as a web browser or application interface. The compliance engine may also permit system administrators and or other users to conduct collaborative searches related to regulatory compliance E discovery or other business requirements of an organization via a compliance management component . The compliance management component may facilitate such searching via an administrative dashboard or similar graphical user interface as described in greater detail herein. The compliance engine is described in greater detail herein with respect to .

The system described herein may collaborate with and utilize some or all components of a data storage system such as a data storage system used to create secondary copies of data such as backup copies of data recovery copies archive copies and so on.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an example of a data storage system is shown. Data storage systems may contain some or all of the following components depending on the needs of the system.

For example the data storage system contains a storage manager one or more clients one or more media agents and one or more storage devices . The storage manager controls the media agents which may be responsible for transferring data to storage devices . The storage manager includes a jobs agent a management agent a database and or an interface module . The storage manager communicates with client s . One or more clients may access data to be stored by the system from database via a data agent . The system uses media agents which contain databases to transfer and store data into storage devices to create secondary copies of data. The storage devices may be magnetic tapes optical disks USB and other solid state devices cloud storage sites other similar media and so on.

The data storage system may include software and or hardware components and modules used in data storage operations. For example the components may be backup resources that function to backup data during backup operations or may be archiving resources employed by the system to create archive copies. Of course the components may perform other storage operations or storage management operations other that operations used in data backups and or data archiving. For example some resources may create store retrieve and or migrate primary or secondary data copies. The secondary data copies may include snapshot copies backup copies HSM copies archive copies and so on. The resources may also perform storage management functions that may push information to higher level components such as global management resources.

In some examples the system performs storage operations based on storage policies. For example a storage policy is a data structure that includes a set of preferences or other criteria to be considered during storage operations. The storage policy may determine or define a storage location e.g. in secondary storage a relationship between components network pathways accessible data pipes retention or life cycle periods or schedules compression or encryption requirements preferred components preferred storage devices or media and so on. Storage policies may be stored in storage manager or may be stored in other resources such as a global manager a media agent and so on.

Referring to a flow diagram illustrating an exemplary routine for creating a new secondary copy of data is shown. The routine may be performed for example by components within the data storage system . In step the system receives a source copy of an original data set from a file system. The source copy may be for example a primary or production copy a recovery copy backup copy snapshot an archive copy including a third party archive copy or another type of secondary copy. Alternatively the system may access the source copy or otherwise communicate with data storage components in a data storage system to gain access to the data.

In step the system may deduplicate the data that is the system may only transfer a single instance of any redundant data instances or transfer less than all of the copies of a redundant data instance. For example the system may reduce the data set to be transferred by removing duplicate instances of data files and other information. Further details about creating secondary copies with unique or deduplicated data files may be found the assignee s U.S. Pat. Pub. No. 2008 0243958 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR STORING REDUNDANT INFORMATION the entirety of which is incorporated by reference herein.

In step the system may index the data stored in the new secondary copy. For example the system may index the content of the data and update the index with the identified content to make the identified content available for searching. For example the system may identify and index data files and objects such as word processing documents spreadsheets email objects database records powerpoint presentations metadata and so on. The system may check the data against previously indexed data and only index new or additional data. The system may then parse process and store the data. For example the system may add information to the index such as the location of the content associated metadata keywords found in the content and so on. The system may add chain of custody information to an index. For example the system may include information about how the data is being modified during process . The system may index the content before or after performing other processing to the data such as encryption single instancing and so on. Further details about indexing content may be found in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. 2008 0091655 filed Mar. 30 2007 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR OFFLINE INDEXING OF CONTENT AND CLASSIFYING STORED DATA.

In step the system may optionally encrypt the data before or after the new secondary copy is created. For example the system may employ many different techniques for encrypting a secondary copy such as an archive copy. Further details about encryption and encrypting secondary copies of data may be found in commonly assigned U.S. Patent Publication No. US2008 0320319A1 filed on Mar. 31 2008 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR ENCRYPTING SECONDARY COPIES OF DATA. In step the system creates the new secondary copy of the data set. The system may for example store a new archive copy in archive file format by storing data chunks onto physical media.

In some cases the system may reduce data gaps that can occur in typical data storage systems. These systems may archive data by sending recovery copies to a data archive on for example a monthly basis. However often data will undergo many changes and modifications within a month. Thus the data storage system may only store the modifications present at the monthly increments causing gaps in the archived data set.

The system may reduce such data gaps by creating an archive copy when the system creates a recovery backup or other secondary copy. For example the system using deduplication and other redundancy techniques may periodically or constantly create an archive copy of an original data set storing original data and any incremental changes to the data. Thus the system is able to catch and archive the incremental changes and continually build an archive copy for data under management of an organization.

The system provides an indexed continuous archive copy of data under management containing little or no redundancy without taxing the systems at the data source among other benefits.

In some cases the system may perform some or all steps in the routine upon existing secondary e.g. archived data sets. To illustrate one example some archived data sets are nothing more than many boxes of magnetic tapes storing data. These tapes often contain redundant data that may take up more than half of the entire archive and the data may not be indexed thus it may not be readily searchable. Thus in some cases it may be beneficial to apply the indexing and deduplication methods described herein in order to reduce storage costs provide acceptable recovery times and make the data more accessible for compliance tasks. The system can create a secondary copy of the data that is independent of the system that created the data applications that created the data and so on. The system can therefore receive data from various heterogeneous sources including third party sources such as archive copies created by third party archiving software or services and create a single independent secondary copy of data such as an archive copy that may be used as a long term copy of the data.

In such cases prior to performing the routine of the system may retrieve or otherwise access an existing archived data set. For example the system may recall tapes of an archive move the tapes to a data library of a data storage system and access the tapes to read the data and create the new secondary copy. Additionally during the routine of the system may permanently erase any data from the previously archived data set that is no longer needed further reducing the size of the created secondary copy.

The policy module permits a user to specify and modify various information governance policies that define how data should be managed in order to comply with a certain regulation or business objective. The various policies may be stored for example in the database . An information governance policy may comprise one or more of a classification policy workflow policy retention policy and or reporting policy each of which is described herein. An information governance policy may align with one or more compliance tasks that are imposed by regulations or business requirements. Examples of information governance policies might include a Sarbanes Oxley policy a HIPAA policy an E Discovery policy and so on.

Information governance policies allow administrators to obtain different perspectives on all of an organization s online and offline data without the need for a dedicated data silo created solely for each different viewpoint. As described previously the data storage systems herein build a centralized index that reflects the contents of a distributed data set that spans numerous clients and storage devices including both primary and secondary copies and online and offline copies. An organization may apply multiple information governance policies in a top down manner over that unified data set and indexing schema in order to permit an organization to view and manipulate the single data set through different lenses each of which is adapted to a particular compliance or business goal. Thus for example by applying an E discovery policy and a Sarbanes Oxley policy two different groups of users in an organization can conduct two very different analyses of the same underlying physical set of data copies which may be distributed throughout the organization.

A user may define a classification policy by indicating criteria parameters or descriptors of the policy via a graphical user interface that provides facilities to present information and receive input data such as a form or page with fields to be filled in pull down menus or entries allowing one or more of several options to be selected buttons sliders hypertext links or other known user interface tools for receiving user input.

A classification policy defines a taxonomy of classification tags relevant to a compliance task and or business objective. A classification policy may also associate a defined tag with a classification rule. A classification rule defines a particular combination of data criteria such as users who have created accessed or modified a document or data object file or application types content or metadata keywords clients or storage locations dates of data creation and or access review status or other status within a workflow e.g. reviewed or un reviewed modification times or types of modifications and or any other data attributes. A classification rule may also be defined using other classification tags in the taxonomy. The various criteria used to define a classification rule may be combined in any suitable fashion for example via Boolean operators to define a complex classification rule. As an example an E discovery classification policy might define a classification tag privileged that is associated with documents or data objects that 1 were created or modified by legal department staff 2 were sent to or received from outside counsel via email and or 3 contain one of the following keywords privileged or attorney counsel or similar terms.

One specific type of classification tag which may be added to an index at the time of indexing is an entity. An entity may be for example any content that matches a defined data mask format. Examples of entity tags might include e.g. social security number e.g. any numerical content matching the formatting mask XXX XX XXXX credit card numbers e.g. content having a 13 16 digit string of numbers SKU numbers product numbers etc.

A workflow policy describes a process of various data management steps that should be taken to identify and handle a set of documents files and or or objects known as a review set. A review set is a set of documents that are relevant to the workflow it is typically generated by conducting a search e.g. a search of an index although a user may define a review set by any other method. A workflow policy may define methods for identifying the members of the review set for example it may define specific search criteria e.g. specific keywords metadata classification tags or other criteria . Alternatively or additionally the policy may prescribe a particular search interface that a user may utilize to conduct a search in order to generate a review set. It is important to note that a review set is generally a virtual review set because the relevant set of documents typically is not consolidated into a single physical data repository or silo before a subsequent workflow is applied to the set. Instead typically the review set simply refers to or links to various documents that may be distributed on storage media e.g. primary and secondary throughout the organization. The review set may be shared among multiple users.

A workflow policy also defines the roles responsibilities and or security schemes applicable to collaborative participants who process the review set in the workflow. For example an E Discovery workflow policy might require that the set of documents tagged as privileged be subjected to a collaborative three step review process that progresses from a paralegal then to an associate and finally a senior attorney.

A workflow policy may also define other outcomes that should occur during the processing of a review set. For example a workflow policy might further specify that if a document is tagged as under legal hold the compliance engine should automatically notify the custodians of the document of their legal obligation to retain the document e.g. by automatically sending an email to the custodians. As another example a workflow policy might specify that at a certain stage in processing the system should create a new secondary copy of the review set or a subset thereof or export the set either as a secondary copy or as an XML summary . For example a Sarbanes Oxley workflow policy might require that the system copy a review set of documents tagged as corporate officer correspondence into a dedicated archive file.

A retention policy describes how to retain documents in primary and or secondary storage within the data storage system. For example the retention policy may describe how to retain data that has been tagged in a certain manner and or otherwise processed during a data management workflow. It may for example specify a retention period or life cycle the type of media that should be used to store a document storage operation schedules the types of security schemas that should be applied etc. For example a retention policy may specify that primary copies of patient confidential documents are stored on high security data servers for at least 5 years and that secondary copies of patient confidential documents are stored for at least 10 years using a certain form of encryption.

A reporting policy specifies the business information that is provided to users regarding the status of the organization s unified data set or a subset thereof. As a first example a reporting policy may prescribe reports that indicate the degree to which an organization has complied with a particular regulation for example by comparing the status of the organization s data to certain performance metrics or benchmarks. As another example a reporting policy may define reports that indicate how a review set has progressed through various stages of a particular workflow. A reporting policy may also specify the frequency recipients and format of such reports. Various reports are described in greater detail herein.

The storage manager data agents media agents and other components of a data storage system may implement various functionalities specified by an information governance policy. For example a storage manager may facilitate searches and implement aspects of retention policies including for example pushing retention policies down to media agents. As another example data agents may implement aspects of legal holds that are specified by a workflow policy. Media agents may perform various secondary storage and retrieval operations required by a retention and or work flow policy.

Various other aspects of information governance policies are illustrated herein with respect to various example workflows and compliance tasks. Although information governance policies may be described herein primarily in conjunction with compliance tasks one having skill in the art will appreciate that information governance policies described herein may be utilized to achieve other business objectives that are unrelated to regulatory or legal compliance.

In some examples the collaborative search system allows a user to develop or modify an information governance policy using templates associated with common search and other compliance tasks. Each template may provide for example a default taxonomy of classification tags and classification rules search or other review set criteria workflow steps participants and security rules data storage retention periods and conditions default reports and or compliance benchmarks. A user may modify a template to adapt it to their specific compliance task e.g. via a graphical user interface or during the performance of a workflow.

Many different templates can be created to guide collaborative participants through the steps of data classification search review reporting and related tasks. For example a collaborative participant may select a Sarbanes Oxley template that provides a classification policy that includes tags related to materials that are required to be reviewed under the Sarbanes Oxley Act e.g. officer correspondence and a workflow policy that defines a default search query based on these defined tags. The collaborative participant might then adjust the classification tags to accommodate information that is specific to the organization e.g. might associate the officer correspondence tag with the keyword criteria Carly Fiorini. .

As another example an E discovery template may provide both a classification policy with tags that would be generally applicable to E discovery tasks e.g. privileged work product responsive as well as a well defined multi step review and or legal hold workflow such as the workflows described in greater detail herein with respect to . As yet another example a HIPAA template might prescribe reports that flag improper email disclosures of patient sensitive documents and or improper storage of patient records.

Another type of template might for example allow an engineer to mine data about previous products to assist in the development of a current product.

A user might also utilize an existing information governance policy as a template for a new policy. For example a participant may have developed and successfully utilized a first E discovery information governance policy for a product liability case relating to a product Widget X. When a product liability suit is brought relating to a different product Widget Y the user might make minimal adjustments to the various features of the first policies e.g. classification workflow retention and or reporting policies to create a new information governance policy for the new case. For example the participant might simply adjust the keywords used in data classification but utilize the same review workflow for the resultant data review set. The system may also update or change the set of templates based on dynamically changing information including patterns of user behavior.

Returning to the collaborative search and workflow module may interact with the index to facilitate searches of the content of the data such as searches of the data content metadata associated with the data classification tags and so on. For example the compliance engine may facilitate searches from end users via an end user search component such as a web browser or application interface. As another example the collaborative search and workflow module may permit system administrators and or other users to conduct collaborative searches related to compliance tasks via a compliance management component . Such collaborative searches may be used to produce review sets for subsequent workflow processing. The compliance management component may facilitate such searching via an administrative dashboard or similar graphical user interface. Furthermore the searching may span the entire corpus of an organization s data including production data third party archive data and secondary copies .

The collaborative search and workflow module may also facilitate collaborative data management workflows whereby multiple persons may manually and or automatically review tag annotate and otherwise process a set of documents. As described herein a data management workflow may be implemented in part by a graphical user interface or dashboard that permits a user to readily perform such functions. Examples of collaborative searching and collaborative data management workflows are described in greater detail herein with respect to .

The classification module is configured to perform automated classification or tagging of data on an ongoing basis based on applicable classification policies. The classification module may for example periodically or intermittently review information in the index to identify documents or data objects that satisfy a particular classification rule. The module may then associate the identified documents or data objects with the corresponding tags in a searchable index for example index . More detail about automated classification and tagging can be found in the commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 564 197 filed Nov. 28 2006 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR CLASSIFYING AND TRANSFERRING INFORMATION IN A STORAGE NETWORK now U.S. Pat. No. 7 734 593 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

In accordance with applicable workflow policies the classification module may also continuously periodically or intermittently mine the classification tags and other information within the index e.g. by searching the tag metadata index for tags with timestamps after a certain date time in order to push newly classified data into designated review sets and data management workflows and or to produce other outcomes. For example in accordance with an E discovery workflow policy applicable to an employment suit brought by J. Doe the classification module might search the index on a daily basis for documents that are tagged with both the data classification tags J. Doe Litigation and privileged and then push any new matching documents directly to legal staff for review within a workflow. As another example in accordance with a workflow policy the compliance engine might also notify the custodians of newly matching documents that those documents are the subject of a legal hold such as by automatically sending an email to the custodians and providing information identifying those documents. Additionally or alternatively in accordance with a workflow policy the classification module may automatically direct other system components to add newly matching documents to a dedicated legal hold archive copy. Information governance policies may specify the frequency with which the classification module performs its classification and or mining tasks.

The retention module implements retention policies in part by interacting with the data storage system . For example the retention module may interact with the storage manager to create or modify storage policies that are implemented by the data storage system. For example the retention module may receive an indication that all documents that are tagged as HIPAA patient files must now be retained for 7 years instead of a 5 year retention period that was specified by earlier legislation. In such an example the retention module might then adjust storage policies within the storage manager to reflect this new retention period.

In accordance with reporting policies the reporting module generates reports and similar information that provide IT managers or users with a business view of the organization s data. For example as described in greater detail herein the compliance engine may provide a compliance officer with a report that indicates the progress that the organization s legal team has made towards completing a particular compliance task. To perform its tasks the reporting module may access information in the index and or access various review sets.

Referring to a block diagram illustrating an architecture for integrating a collaborative search system with a collaborative document management system is shown. The architecture may be used to implement various functionalities of the compliance engine shown in including the collaborative search and workflow module . A browser is used by collaborative participants to access the integrated system. A collaborative participant submits queries receives results and performs other collaborative tasks through the browser . The browser is connected to a collaborative document management system such as Microsoft Sharepoint Server. The collaborative document management system provides a web based portal for collaboration between collaborative participants. A collaborative document management system is connected to a collaborative search system . The collaborative search system integrates with the collaborative document management system and adds additional web components content parsers and provides access to enterprise content. The collaborative search system is connected to a content indexing system a security system and a document retention system each described separately herein.

The content indexing system provides fast access to content from various computer systems within an organization including production data online copies e.g. online backup copies offline copies e.g. offline archive copies and secondary copies created by third party software or services such as third party archive copies. The content indexing system may be implemented in whole or in part by the system shown in including the content tracking engine and index and as such may provide access to disparate and distributed data sources as described previously.

The security system provides users and groups that are meaningful to a particular enterprise to facilitate searching. The security system also enforces access rights to collaborative content. The document retention system places a legal hold on documents related to a document retention request. Further details regarding the legal hold of documents will be discussed herein.

The collaborative search system may integrate components for searching data from multiple operating systems and multiple data formats. For example file system data on a Microsoft Windows computer system may be stored differently from file system data on a Linux computer system but the collaborative search system may make both types of file system data available for searching. Data may be gathered from each of these types of disparate data sources and forwarded to a uniform database where the data can be collected tagged with various classifications and indexed for searching. The system may then display the data on differently formatted browsers.

In some examples the collaborative search system receives criteria for a search through a collaborative process. For example one collaborative participant may create a new query for responding to a discovery request regarding a product made by the company that employs the collaborative participant. The first collaborative participant may add search criteria including the product name and then may submit the search criteria to the collaborative document management system as a collaborative document. Another collaborative participant may open the collaborative document and add additional search criteria such as narrowing the list of departments from which documents should be searched. For example the second participant may include the engineering marketing and sales teams that worked on the product. The collaborative search system may also add additional criteria inferred from the criteria added by the collaborative participants. For example based on the company s indexed data the collaborative search system may determine that two employees one in a department already within the search criteria and another outside of the current search criteria frequently send email about projects. Based on this information the collaborative search system may add the user that is outside of the current search criteria to the search criteria or may prompt one of the collaborative participants to consider adding the user to the search criteria.

Additionally the system may add additional search criteria inferred from dynamically changing search criteria and or from existing classification policies or classification templates. For example different users may commonly search for emails such as emails that occurred at a certain time and date. The system may look at the current searching of the users and add criteria that relates to the current actions or use of the system. Additionally the system may use heuristics type information when determining search criteria. For example the system may identify two users are searching emails from a similar time period and add search criteria that was added when emails from the time period were earlier searched.

Although not shown the search criteria developed in process may subsequently be utilized to create a new classification policy and or to modify an existing classification policy. For example the search criteria developed in the process may be utilized as a classification rule for a classification tag named responsive to ABC discovery request. 

In some examples the collaborative search system defines or implements workflows that define the set of steps that are part of completing a compliance task. For example a discovery task may have the steps of determining search criteria finding matching documents obtaining a primary review of the documents e.g. by an associate obtaining a secondary review of the documents e.g. by a partner obtaining a tertiary review of a key subset of the documents e.g. by in house counsel and creating a new secondary copy of certain documents that the reviewers have collectively concluded are responsive and non privileged. One collaborative participant may begin the workflow by submitting criteria for a search responsive to the discovery request. As noted above each step of the search task may also be a collaborative process such that for example multiple collaborative participants may contribute to determining the search criteria or performing a review of the found documents. Another collaborative participant may view and join the workflow at its current stage of completion. For example a collaborative participant that is tasked with performing a primary review of the documents may open a collaborative document that contains the set of search results found during the search step as described in more detail below.

In some examples the collaborative search system creates a collaborative document based on a set of search results i.e. a review set. The collaborative document provides a mechanism for multiple collaborative participants to contribute to steps within a workflow subsequent to the search process. In the example of a discovery request the steps of performing various levels of review of found documents can consume the majority of the time spent responding to the discovery request. Many collaborative participants may be employed to perform the review and each may be asked to add supplemental information to the search results that capture the results of each participant s review. For example a collaborative participant may have the task of reviewing each search result and tagging the document if it contains privileged content. The collaborative document may allow each reviewer to directly add comments to documents with the search results. Collaborative documents based on search results may contain a variety of information such as comments related to the work flow just described notes made by a collaborative participant to himself such as where the review of a document was stopped before taking a break or comments from the content s author that clarifies what the content means.

In step the system creates a collaborative document for storing and working with the search results. For example the system may create a document containing a table with a row for each search result. The document might also indicate any classification tags that were manually or automatically attributed to a search result e.g. by the classification module . In step the system receives a result indication from a user. The result indication may be a classification tag e.g. as defined by a classification policy ad hoc tag review status flag other type of flag and or comments provided by a user in order to convey information relevant to the search. For example the user may tag certain search results as relevant to a compliance request or remove certain search results that are not relevant to a purpose of the search. The result indication may also indicate that the user wishes to remove a flag or classification tag that was automatically or manually associated with a search result.

In step the collaborative search system posts the collaborative document to a shared space such as a portal website. For example the user may request that the system make the document available to other users or the user may email the document to another user. Alternatively or additionally the collaborative search system may interpret a workflow policy in order to determine the desired method for posting or otherwise sharing the document or its contents. The group of users who have access to the document or its contents may be restricted using security attributes as described herein and or may be defined by a workflow policy. In decision step if there are more search result indications then the system continues at step else the system continues at step .

In step the system receives additional search result indications from another user. For example a second user may add tags to search results that were not tagged by the first user or may add additional information to the search results such as by adding another column to a table of results. As another example a second user may remove or alter result indications such as tags that were provided by another user.

In step the system performs additional processing on the modified search results. For example the system may print a version of the document or distribute copies or related reports to department heads or other interested users for whom the search was performed. After step these steps conclude.

Although not shown some or all of the result indications received during the process may be added to an index such as the index and or another index that is specific to the review set. For example if a user adds or removes classification tags during the process the collaborative system search system may update an index such as index to reflect those result indications.

The user interface of the collaborative search system may include custom developed web components to assist with the integration with the collaborative document management system. For example Microsoft Sharepoint Server provides an object model and API for accessing collaborative features such as workflows and a search front end that can be invoked from custom web pages using the Active Server Page Framework ASPX . Using ASPX or other methods custom components can be built containing scripts that dynamically build web pages for display to a collaborative participant. These web pages are dynamically produced for each collaborative participant and may list workflows to which the collaborative participant has access collaborative documents created by the collaborative participant templates available to the collaborative participant and so on.

When a particular user accesses search results in the workflow the contents and format of his graphical user interface view may be defined in part by a workflow policy that describes roles and responsibilities of the participants as well as security features. For example a workflow policy may define how search results are advanced or promoted from one participant s view to another participant s view. The workflow policy may define these promotion processes using for example classification tags review status other document metadata and or other result indications. To illustrate when a partner accesses the user interface she may only see the subset of search results in the working set that have already been reviewed by an associate and tagged as potentially relevant. The partner may not see those search results that have not yet been reviewed by an associate or those documents that an associate has tagged as irrelevant. As another example during an E discovery search search results that were automatically tagged as top secret may be immediately promoted to in house counsel thus bypassing any review by an outside attorney.

A user s view may also be defined in part by information from an existing security system or policy such as Active Directory information Access Control Lists ACLs and Access Control Entities. For example the system may permit a user to see that a particular email to the CEO exists and matches the search query i.e. the date and recipient of the email may appear in the search results that a user sees . However the user may not be allowed to access the content of the email since the ACL associated with the CEO s email does not allow the user to view the email. More information about using existing security systems and policies to control access to stored content may be found in the commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 058 511 filed Mar. 28 2008 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR STORAGE OPERATION ACCESS SECURITY now U.S. Patent Publication No 2008 0243855 which is hereby incorporated herein in its entirety.

In some embodiments the collaborative search system provides one or more web parts for extending the functionality of the collaborative document management system. Web parts are web widgets that can be embedded into web pages to provide certain functionality. For example Microsoft SharePoint includes web parts such as workspaces and dashboards navigation tools lists alerts including e mail alerts shared calendars contact lists and discussion boards. A SharePoint web page is built by combining the web parts into a web page to be accessed using a browser. The content and format of the web pages may be defined in part by various information governance policies applied within the system.

One web part allows archiving items available from a shared space. The items may be documents emails application data and so on. The web part leaves a stub describing the items that are archived on the shared space and stores the items in secondary storage such as a tape library. The archived items may still be returned as search results using metadata stored in the stub or an index to identify relevant content within the archived items. The items may be archived based on age size version e.g. only keep last two versions and so forth. When a user requests to access an archived item the collaborative search system uses the stub to retrieve the item from the archived location. Due to granular archiving at the item level archived items may be stored and retrieved into an environment that is different from their original environment. For example email may be archived that was originally stored in a Microsoft Exchange 2000 email database and restored to an NTFS file system or newer version of Microsoft Exchange. Files that were originally stored using Windows XP may be restored to a computer running Windows Vista Unix or another operating system. Items originally shared through Microsoft SharePoint 2003 may be retrieved using Microsoft SharePoint 2007 and so forth.

In some examples the collaborative search system provides a user interface that does not require specialized software to be installed on the searching client system. For example the collaborative search system may receive search criteria and display search results through a web portal that is accessible using a standard Internet web browser or graphical user interface. The collaborative search system may also provide a set of parsers for viewing content from many different sources such as received in a list of search results as web content. For example the collaborative search system may provide a parser for converting a word processing document into a Hypertext Markup Language HTML web page. Other parsers may convert spreadsheet content database tables instant messaging conversation logs email or other structured or unstructured content into a web page format accessible via a collaborative participant s browser. In this way heterogeneous data from many different applications is available through a unified search user interface.

In some examples the collaborative search system integrates components for making additional types of data available for searching. For example a component may be used to provide access to an email server such as Microsoft Exchange or Lotus Domino. Another component may provide access to database content. Third party products may be integrated with the system to provide access to some types of content. For example FaceTime Communications Inc. of Foster City Calif. provides a third party product that collects instant messaging data and forwards the data to a Microsoft Exchange mailbox. Once the instant messaging is in the Exchange mailbox the component for providing access to Microsoft Exchange data can be used to include the instant messaging content in searches.

In some examples the collaborative search system integrates information from a security system. For example the collaborative search system may use Microsoft Windows Active Directory to determine users whose content should be searched as part of a discovery request. Active Directory contains all of the users in an organization and organizes the users into groups. For example a finance group may contain all of the users in the Finance Department of a company. A discovery or other compliance request may include a request for information most likely held by a particular group such as sales data managed by a sales department. The security system may also provide restrictions on access to content retrieved in response to a search. For example a temporary worker hired to find documents for a sales pitch might not have access to documents associated with executives or documents that contain confidential company information. The collaborative search system can manage a workflow that contains steps performed by collaborative participants with varying levels of access to content. For example pursuant to a workflow policy a company officer may be the only collaborative participant allowed to search a particular set of documents as part of a search request while other collaborative participants search less restricted documents.

The system can permit one click legal holds to preserve authenticity and integrity of data globally or selectively across an enterprise in order to comply with a regulatory requirement including for example E discovery requirements. Once relevant documents are tagged or identified from a query or review set a user may instruct the system to create an archive copy of the relevant documents as noted above or an archive copy may be automatically created in accordance with a workflow policy. Such a streamlined legal action workflow permits a lawyer compliance officer administrator or other user to quickly and efficiently assess whether a legal hold should be implemented and if so allows that user to implement such a hold so that documents are preserved to conform to discovery requests or other legal requirements. In some examples the system effectively sets an undelete flag to put a legal hold on electronic data. This undelete flag may prohibit it or inhibit it from being deleted or encrypted and or may trigger additional operations as described herein. In general legal holds can be administered globally and or selectively across the data storage enterprise based on search criteria custodian keywords and or classification tags.

The system may support legal hold on a wide range of compliance media including NetApp SnapLock HDS DRI and HCAP Archivas EMC Centera Pillar Data and Permabit as well as a host of WORM media tape UDO Magneto Optical and PPD.

The system may also permit users to respond to anticipated regulatory proceedings or legal action by collecting and optionally content indexing relevant production data in a user s mailbox or files and placing it on legal hold. This is done with the system s method for securing and indexing mailboxes and files. The system may also archive data using real time collection from the Exchange Journal and other applications and allows for the scheduled collection of both e mail and files based on variety of metadata parameters.

In some examples the system provides integration with NetApp SnapLock and other storage management applications. The system s ability to place relevant information on Legal Hold in conjunction with NetApp SnapLock on any NetApp storage system provides a high level of data protection and flexibility to suit e discovery initiatives.

At step the system may determine which persons or users are the custodians of the identified documents and notify those custodians that their documents have been placed on legal hold. In order to determine which users are custodians of a document the system may utilize the index and or other system information to identify which users have created modified and or accessed a document. The system may also access other data attributes or metadata such as the location of the document. An information governance policy may define rules for determining which users are considered a custodian of a document. For example an information governance policy may define a custodian as any person who has modified a file before a legal hold is implemented and or as any person who controls or uses the client on which the document is stored.

At step the system automatically notifies the identified custodians that their documents have been put on legal hold by an email notification instant message notification or similar. The notification provided may for example include an indication of which documents are on legal hold the nature and or duration of the legal hold information about the custodian s legal obligations e.g. a warning that the document should not be deleted information about penalties for failing to comply with the legal obligations and or information about procedures for responding to the notification.

In step the system may continue to monitor documents for changes relevant to the retention request. For example the classification module may determine if any new documents are created that are relevant to the retention request. The system may compare the documents with metadata patterns of activity and other information related to the retention request. If additional documents are identified at step the system may repeat blocks and or .

In some examples at step the system may also continue to monitor clients to determine whether a user has attempted to delete or edit production data that are relevant to the document retention request. For example if a client has a document stored on it that is relevant to the document retention request the system may monitor backup operations of that client. During a scheduled backup or other secondary storage operation the system may determine whether the document has been edited is no longer on the client s file system has been moved to another location on the client s file system e.g. the trash folder . Similarly if the document of interest is an email database entry or similarly granular data object the system may determine if the data object has been edited deleted or moved within a mailbox database file or similar file. To do so the system may perform a comparison or difference of two backup files. Alternatively or additionally the system may make the determination by utilizing other information related to a secondary storage operation such as change reports change logs or change journals used during the operation. If the system determines that the file or object has been edited deleted or moved the system may take additional action. For example in accordance with a reporting policy the system may notify a compliance officer of the change and or include this information in a data management report to a compliance officer. As another example the system may copy the document or data object to a secondary copy.

In step the system generates a report that identifies the relevant documents identified and or held via the process.

Although not shown during the process the system may also take other steps in accordance with applicable information governance policies. For example in accordance with a workflow policy for compliance purposes the system may create a new archive copy that contains the identified documents. As another example in accordance with a workflow and or retention policy the system may determine if the identified documents are production copies resident on a client that have not yet been copied to secondary storage . In such an example in accordance with the policy the system May initiate storage operations such as backup or archive operations in order to create a secondary copy of the identified documents within secondary storage. As yet another example in accordance with a workflow policy the system initiates a data management workflow for processing the identified documents as a review set.

In some examples the system handles all electronic data and covers production volumes online volumes e.g. backup volumes offline volumes e.g. archives third party archives and other versions of data. In its simplest form a storage manager and data agents help identify data that satisfy a given criteria from various locations and via indexes generated based on all data in a network. With a single user interface a user can request a unified search over the network to identify all data satisfying predetermined criteria. This includes identifying data satisfying the criteria on multiple levels or tiers of storage multiple types of media and heterogeneous platforms.

In some examples the system can employ Bayesian file matching techniques to identify similar files. For example the system can identify data on a primary storage device identified from a storage manager index. The system can then identify where on the secondary tier of storage the similar data is located.

In some examples the system locks down the data using a litigation hold field or undelete field that permits that data to be written once and read many times WORM . The system works with data that is not regularly WORM able. In other words the data can be tagged to be prohibited from being deleted but then afterwards deleted when the flag is removed.

In some examples the system permits indexing on each client and the ability to trap data at a client level. For example agent software on individual computers coupled to the network can monitor behavior on that computer and when certain criteria are satisfied write out everything elsewhere to a server on the network or other storage location. Alternatively the data can be stored in cache and then written out later such as when the agent recognizes that the machine has been in a quiescent state for longer than a predetermined period of time or at a predetermined time of day. Indeed under this alternative the agent can copy everything new that may have occurred on the computer and stored elsewhere.

Under another alternative that stops copies from being deleted a filter on a primary storage device traps any delete commands associated with data matching certain criteria. Secondary storage may have a litigation hold field that is effectively an undelete flag or a preventative action field. This field is more than a simple flag but can identify or distinguish between different matters such as different litigations or other events. Further such a preventive action field can selectively enable or disable delete commands encryption commands move commands and so on. For example certain data may be flagged as being kept encrypted permanently unless certain special criteria are met. Alternatively certain data may be flagged as prohibited from being encrypted. Further data may be flagged whereby it may be moved only within a given data storage tier and not between tiers. Any job agent running on the system such as a journaling agent can check for whether certain criteria are met and take appropriate actions in response.

In some examples the system has a reporting capability where indexes at the storage manager are analyzed to identify documents matching certain terms and reports generated therefrom. In other words the system identifies data objects that meet search criteria. The system can then cross reference back to other search criteria without having to associate related items based on preset classifications or certain criteria. For example documents assigned different matter numbers may be in fact related and thus identified as related under the system.

In some examples the system identifies not only documents but also creates a log and thus a log report of keystrokes by given machines applications opened files stored and so on. Differential reports may be generated through a differential search among multiple reports. Such a differential report can provide a rating based on a commonality between search results among different reports. The system may rate certain reports higher than other reports. For example the system may rate activity from a computer that created the document higher than activity from the user that created the data. Also the system may then use the differential report when performing dynamic processing such as those described herein.

In some examples once data identifying certain criteria is flagged it can be sent to a WORM device or otherwise WORMed. Under the present system once data has been WORM ed it can be unWORMed later which is not possible with some hardware based storage systems.

Under another alternative the system can trap a copy and store that copy elsewhere such as on a completely separate machine. Thus the system can create a storage manager index associated with a separately identified machine or platform to store all documents and other electronic data meeting an electronic discovery request or other present criteria. Thus data can quickly be moved off a user s computer and onto a separate machine coupled to the network where that machine may be dedicated to a certain job such as legal discovery.

In some examples using Vault Tracker or a similar archive storage management component the system can perform a data classification search meeting the certain criteria identify an offsite location storing the data automatically request the offsite media and restore it to a particular server. Thus the system can automatically or semi automatically obtain data meeting the certain criteria and have it restored back at a set location to respond to a legal discovery request. For example the system may identify documents using the search criteria and retrieve secondary storage devices that include the document and other documents related to the documents or its metadata.

The system permits a very streamlined legal action workflow that allows for efficient and rapid processing of compliance requests including discovery requests. The workflow allows the system to in a first step identify and filter relevant search result sets that highlight documents to be preserved. Using the tools noted herein users can identify search terms and generate queries to submit to the system. For example users may use the tools described herein to develop an information governance policy including a classification policy that defines various classification tags that appear to be responsive to a compliance request. Since data content indexing and classification is performed on all documents stored in the system the system may quickly produce a review set of documents that may be responsive to a legal hold or discovery request.

In a second step the system allows users to manage the manual annotation and content classification of documents reviewed against defined legal matter characterizations or classifications e.g. privileged documents . For example users can quickly review documents to determine whether they are relevant and responsive to a discovery request whether they are privileged and so forth for example using the collaborative systems described herein. Users can associate tags with such documents to help flag them for quick and automated processing by the system to create an archive data set that can be preserved through the course of a compliance matter such as a E discovery matter and so forth.

Under a third step the system automatically legally holds or physically secures archived copies of certain documents based on their classification possibly encrypting the documents also . Thus in accordance with a retention policy documents that have been flagged or associated with specific classification tags may be copied to create a new copy set archive copy and such documents may be indexed as well as possibly being encrypted deduplicated and so forth as noted herein.

Under a fourth step in accordance with a retention policy the system can redirect legally held content to a document review process a specific case management technology e.g. CaseCentral or export it for ingestion into an in house litigation system. For example the flagged tagged documents can be forwarded as a copy set to attorneys for review and use during litigation reports noted herein may be generated and so forth.

After first determining whether litigation is reasonably anticipated the system can stop aging data under block . For example using a unified dashboard or user interface a legal compliance officer attorney administrator or user may temporarily hold any aging out of data to prevent temporarily data from being deleted or overwritten such as tapes having archived copies of documents being recycled and overwritten. To do so the user may define a retention policy that forbids the deletion or encryption of data that matches certain classification rules or other criteria. The system extends or postpones any retention attributes or time periods associated with data copy jobs to prevent data deletion or encryption by unauthorized users. Specifically at the direction of the retention module the storage manager may modify the appropriate entries in the data base to ensure such jobs are not deleted.

If the key players or other relevant individuals associated with the litigation are still employed or still generating documents with the company named in the litigation then under step the system may in accordance with an information governance policy enable active archiving and or indexing of any electronic documents generated by such key players. For example at step the system may automatically move mailboxes associated with key players to a journaled mail store or mail store that tracks all sent and received mails by these key players to ensure that those e mails are copied indexed and archived. These e mails may also be content indexed as described herein. In addition to tracking or journaling emails the system may also track journal archive and or index other types of files or any other electronic documents associated with these key players.

Under step in accordance with a workflow or retention policy the system preserves active production data and all secondary stored data that are associated with the key players and or specified data classification tags. The system may for example create a copy or archive file of each key player s mailbox to ensure archiving of e mail messages of each file created modified or even accessed by the key players and preservation of all other documents associated with the key players and or specified classification tags. For example by accessing the file system via file system APIs the system can via journaling of metadata monitor all files created edited accessed etc. by the key player to ensure archiving of file system documents for the key players. This file system copying can include not only file shares on a server but also desktop and laptop electronic document preservation by installing file system agents on the desktop and laptop computers for the key players where the agents monitor access to files and perform the data classification noted above. Under step the system can also search archive copies for any electronic information associated with the key players or specified classification tags and copy that information to a dedicated archive. The system can also search the index to identify relevant documents that match data classification rules e.g. match certain key words . For example in accordance with a classification rule the system may search the index for any documents associated with a product name or internal development name where that product is identified in a lawsuit or potential lawsuit. The system may then tag these documents and preserve them.

Under step in accordance with a retention policy the system duplicates one or more backup or copy sets. Thus as noted above the system can automatically create a case specific copy set or archive copy that allows the organization to hold only relevant information thus eliminating the need to hold a single tape that could have multiple data sets of discoverable information. Thus this copy set can include mail server information e.g. e mails file system information e.g. electronic documents or files and other information e.g. database information web pages browser history .

Under block in accordance with retention policies the system may resume data aging by removing the extended retention flag set under block . Thus for example previously held retained tapes may be overwritten. Under block in accordance with an information governance policy the system begins to perform initial production from the archived data or legal hold copy set to thereby generate an initial discovery copy set that is a subset of the collected and legally held copy set. For example the system may provide the legally held copy set or a subset thereof to the collaborative search and workflow module . Having previously indexed content in this legally held copy set users can use the search and other workflow features noted herein to quickly and efficiently search review tag annotate and protect relevant documents.

Under block the system can in accordance with a workflow policy optionally produce from the backup set some or all documents needed to respond to a discovery request thereby creating a subset of the legally held copy set where the subset of documents may be provided to opposing counsel in a lawsuit to a court in a court proceeding to a governmental agency etc. For example the system may perform a query of the documents in the archive copy or legally held copy set created under step to identify all documents that were tagged during the review workflow as relevant and responsive to a discovery request but that are not privileged. The system in accordance with a retention policy may then create a copy of that subset of documents such as on a magnetic tape and export that tape as needed.

Not only can the system export the relevant copy set in response to a court order but it can also automatically identify a reduced number of electronic documents and create a discoverable copy set that is a subset of the documents stored and preserved under step . The system uses filters to enable users to quickly identify and reduce the number of files and messages needed for review or needed to be produced to thereby allow business teams to make better decisions meet deadlines avoid sanctions etc.

The system may provide various types of reporting to assist in electronic discovery and other legal compliance tasks. Such reports can be used by IT and compliance personnel for decision making. The reports may be generated by the reporting module in accordance with a reporting policy as described herein. Users may access these reports from a unified dashboard or graphical user interface GUI such as the GUI shown in .

As a first example a report may indicate the degree to which certain classes or locations of data have been indexed. For example as shown the report may provide this information for different classes of storage locations e.g. production data secondary data third party archive data . As a second example a report may indicate the quantities of data objects that have been tagged with various classifications of interest to the user. Alternatively or additionally a similar report might indicate the number of data objects currently in various review sets that are of interest to the user.

As another example a report might indicate the degree to which an organization s current storage operations are compliant or noncompliant with a particular regulation. Such reports may compare the current and or historical state of the organization s data to various benchmarks or goals that might be defined by a reporting policy and or retention policy. For example a report might indicate that 5 of data that is tagged as patient confidential is stored in unencrypted form. If HIPAA requires that less than 2 of patient confidential data is stored in unencrypted form i.e. 2 is the applicable performance benchmark then the report might also indicate that the organization is in violation of HIPAA and provide an indication of the level and nature of its non compliance. Such a report may help a decision maker detect regulatory noncompliance and identify the improvements that are necessary to remedy non compliant features of an organization s storage systems.

As another example as shown in the system may generate graphical or other workflow reports that indicate the progress of data through a particular workflow. For example as shown in a report may indicate e.g. using stacked bar charts what proportion or quantity of documents that are potentially relevant to a particular workflow have been 1 added to the review set based on data classification and or queries e.g. 90 000 documents 2 fully reviewed in the specified workflow e.g. 85 000 documents and or 3 exported e.g. to opposing counsel e.g. 75 000 documents . As another example for an E discovery workflow such a report may indicate that 80 000 documents have been automatically tagged as responsive to a compliance request based on an applicable classification policy 70 000 of those tagged documents have been pushed to a review set and entered a collaborative workflow specified by a workflow policy 20 000 have received a primary review by an associate within the workflow 500 have received a secondary review by a partner within the workflow 200 top secret documents were sent directly to in house counsel and 100 have been tagged as responsive and non privileged and thus exported to opposing counsel.

As another example not shown the system may generate an audit ready report that identifies what electronic data the system could and could not find during a compliance task such as when responding to a discovery request. For example the report may identify all of the documents responsive to a legal discovery request as well as the current availability of those documents within the system. The documents can then be accessed if they are online or retrieved from a storage library and accessed if they are offline e.g. stored in an off site data vault . The report may be useful in cases where an organization prepares for a discovery or other compliance request but does not want to devote the resources in preparing the data. Additionally the system may use such a report to proactively identify problems with a data retention system should the report indicate that some data was not found or is not stored in compliance with applicable record keeping regulations. For example the system may identify that all data from a certain time period was not found and review various processes that stored data in that time period for errors and or malfunctions. Thus the system may proactively prepare for compliance requests using aspects of the system.

As another example not shown in a report may also provide additional aggregate or summarizing information to aid with decision making. For an example a report can be used to analyze and weigh the costs of settling versus the costs of discovery via various metrics. For example lawyers and management can analyze the cost of responding to discovery requests in a lawsuit by assigning an average hourly rate and an average time per document review in a reporting policy. The system can then identify the number of documents that satisfy a discovery request using the search criteria and tools noted herein. Based on the number of documents the average hourly rate and the average time to analyze a document the system can automatically compute and generate a report indicating the cost to respond to a discovery request. For example if the system identifies 50 000 documents that may be potentially relevant to responding to a discovering request and an average of 0.1 hours will be spent analyzing each of those documents to determine whether a given document is relevant and whether it is privileged at an average hourly rate of 250 an hour the cost to analyze those documents would be 1 250 000. This high cost can then be used by management to determine a reasonable rate to settle a piece of litigation to avoid costly discovery.

Further details regarding assessing costs particularly for information technology IT and data storage expenses may be found in the assignee s U.S. Pat. No. 7 343 356 issued Mar. 11 2008 incorporated herein by reference.

As another example not shown in in accordance with a reporting policy during a scheduled backup or other secondary storage operation the system may determine whether a production copy of a document that is associated with specified classification tags and or review sets has been edited is no longer on the client s file system has been moved to another location on the client s file system e.g. the trash folder . Similarly if the document of interest is an email database entry or similarly granular data object the system may determine if the data object has been edited deleted or moved within a mailbox database file or similar file. To do so the system may perform a comparison or difference of two backup files from two different time points. Alternatively or additionally the system may make the determination by utilizing other information related to a secondary storage operation such as change reports change logs or change journals used during the operation. If the system determines that the file or object has been edited deleted or moved the system may take additional action. For example in accordance with a reporting policy the system may notify a compliance officer of the change and or include this information in a data management report to a compliance officer. As another example the system may copy the document or data object to a different secondary copy.

Of course the various reports described herein may provide data management information in any suitable textual audio visual tabular or graphical form e.g. using charts graphs and other types of figures . Those examples provided above and in are intended to be illustrative not exhaustive.

The GUI may provide a user with means for modifying or customizing the content and or format of the various reports displayed on the GUI. For example by clicking on the button marked Modify Home the user may be able to add delete or modify the reports displayed on the dashboard. The user s ability to do so may be limited by applicable security policies for example a user may only be able to add reports pertaining to workflows for which the user is an authorized member.

The GUI may also provide a user with means and for defining a new information governance policy so that she may establish a workflow for a new compliance task. For example by clicking on the button marked Define New Policy a user may be provided with an opportunity to build a policy for a new E discovery workflow that is necessitated by a new lawsuit. In some examples the GUI may guide the user through the policy creation process using templates as described above.

In addition to reports the dashboard GUI may also provide access to the various workflows in which the user participates or acts as an administrator e.g. via links or tabs and . For example the GUI may provide a tab for a search interface used to generate a review set or similar data set e.g. a set that is related to a Sarbanes Oxley workflow. Example search interfaces are described below. As another example the GUI may provide a tab so that the user may review annotate and otherwise process documents in a review set e.g. a review set related to litigation brought by J. Doe as described previously.

Additionally the GUI may provide a summary about the current status of various workflows in which the user is a participant or administrator. For example as shown the summary may provide an indication of the user s upcoming tasks in a workflow new documents that have been added to a review set and or compliance issues e.g. exceptions that have been identified during a workflow.

In addition an administrator may also access e.g. from a dashboard such as the one shown in audit ready reports related to the evidentiary or other integrity of content chain of custody of individual documents and or data sets such as a production set that satisfies a compliance request. An example of a chain of custody report is shown in which is in the form of a spreadsheet although of course other forms are possible. In these figures each row continues from one figure to the next. The report includes three sample files or documents which may be emails items and or a document item . The report includes several self explanatory labels along the top with each row underneath providing associated metadata for the corresponding file document. For example as shown the report may include columns for among other things 

Additionally although not shown a chain of custody report may also show other information such as a list of all users who have created accessed and or modified a document a description of any modifications made to the file including for example a description of system implemented modifications such as the removal of a virus or a file format conversion . The chain of custody report may also indicate the provenance of a file or document e.g. by indicating which documents were predecessor versions or formats of the same file or document. As another example the report may indicate how a file or document has moved through various storage locations and or storage media e.g. from disk then to an on site tape library and then to an off site tape storage location . The content of a chain of custody report may be defined in part by a reporting policy.

The search results in the results pane may be ordered by a relevancy rank wherein the relevancy rank is not determined solely by the frequency of search keywords and phrases in each search result. Instead the relevancy rank may alternatively or additionally be determined by whether the specified keywords or phrases appear at a place of prominence within the search result. For example consider if two search results both contain the search keyword cat. In the first document the keyword cat might appear twice in the general body text of the file. In the second document the keyword cat might appear once in a subject line file name table of contents a specially formatted header or another similar place of prominence. In such an example the results pane might promote the second document over the first document since the search keywords or phrases appear in a place of prominence.

In some examples a search cache is maintained by the system. For example when a document is retrieved via a search interface e.g. retrieved from secondary copies a copy of the document may be stored temporarily in a primary storage search cache that is readily accessible to the search server. The system may track how frequently the cached copy is accessed by users. The system may maintain the cached copy of the document for some period wherein that period may be determined in part by the frequency with which the cached document is subsequently accessed via a search interface. For example if a user retrieves a copy of a document from the search interface on Friday and she and or other users subsequently accesses the cached copy of the document every day for two weeks the system may maintain the cached copy for three weeks before deleting the copy from the cache. Maintaining a search cache in this manner reduces the overhead of retrieving search results from the search interface.

As shown each search result in the results pane may be shown in conjunction with descriptive columns e.g. for title location size client modification time or other metadata . The columns used may be customized by a user. The results pane may also include teaser information that provides an indication of the content of a search result. The GUI may further include refinement navigators that permit a user to quickly drill down on search results using additional limitations or filters such as keywords phrases entities file or content type date or time ranges e.g. modification times classification tags and or other criteria. The GUI may also include a preview pane for the currently selected search result. The preview pane may include a preview header with identifying information or metadata such as the file name and client name. The preview pane may also indicate how the search result matches search criteria such as keyword criteria using highlighting or other formatting.

As shown in the GUI may also provide a mechanism of searching for entities as described previously. As shown in the GUI may also provide an advanced query builder that permits a user to build an advanced multi field search query using drop down or similar menus to select common search fields e.g. metadata fields and then associate each field with a search criteria. The GUI may also permit the user to aggregate various search fields and search criteria using drop down or similar menus and that specify query connectors e.g. such as logical connectors like AND or OR or range specifiers such as Between or After .

As shown in in addition to search capabilities the GUI may also provide the ability to open or download a single search result using a simple right click or similar one click method. As shown in the GUI may also permit the user to select multiple search results to export to a particular output file. If the user selects either a download or export the system may retrieve the one or more search results e.g. from various secondary or primary storage locations within the data storage system.

As shown in in addition to facilitating search queries the GUI may permit a user to browse all of an organization s data that is stored in primary and or secondary copies e.g. archive or backup via a consolidated and hierarchical folder structure.

Although not shown in in some examples a user may be able to specify a particular point in time and the search results and or browsing information displayed in and or may reflect the state of the organization s data as it existed at a particular point in time including both production and secondary data. In this way a user may obtain a time machine view of an organization s data. Additionally although not shown in in some examples via the GUI a user may be able to view a visualization showing the timeline of how an email object progressed through an email exchange. For example the timeline may show how various users forwarded and or replied to a particular email during a specified time period.

Systems and modules described herein may comprise software firmware hardware or any combination s of software firmware or hardware suitable for the purposes described herein. Software and other modules may reside on servers workstations personal computers computerized tablets PDAs and other devices suitable for the purposes described herein. In other words the software and other modules described herein may be executed by a general purpose computer e.g. a server computer wireless device or personal computer. Those skilled in the relevant art will appreciate that aspects of the system can be practiced with other communications data processing or computer system configurations including Internet appliances hand held devices including personal digital assistants PDAs wearable computers all manner of cellular or mobile phones multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics set top boxes network PCs mini computers mainframe computers and the like. Indeed the terms computer server host host system and the like are generally used interchangeably herein and refer to any of the above devices and systems as well as any data processor. Furthermore aspects of the system can be embodied in a special purpose computer or data processor that is specifically programmed configured or constructed to perform one or more of the computer executable instructions explained in detail herein.

Software and other modules may be accessible via local memory via a network via a browser or other application in an ASP context or via other means suitable for the purposes described herein. Examples of the technology can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks or modules are performed by remote processing devices which are linked through a communications network such as a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices. Data structures described herein may comprise computer files variables programming arrays programming structures or any electronic information storage schemes or methods or any combinations thereof suitable for the purposes described herein. User interface elements described herein may comprise elements from graphical user interfaces command line interfaces and other interfaces suitable for the purposes described herein. Screenshots presented and described herein can be displayed differently as known in the art to input access change manipulate modify alter and work with information.

Examples of the technology may be stored or distributed on computer readable media including magnetically or optically readable computer discs hard wired or preprogrammed chips e.g. EEPROM semiconductor chips nanotechnology memory biological memory or other data storage media. Indeed computer implemented instructions data structures screen displays and other data under aspects of the system may be distributed over the Internet or over other networks including wireless networks on a propagated signal on a propagation medium e.g. an electromagnetic wave s a sound wave etc. over a period of time or they may be provided on any analog or digital network packet switched circuit switched or other scheme .

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to. As used herein the terms connected coupled or any variant thereof means any connection or coupling either direct or indirect between two or more elements the coupling of connection between the elements can be physical logical or a combination thereof. Additionally the words herein above below and words of similar import when used in this application shall refer to this application as a whole and not to any particular portions of this application. Where the context permits words in the above Detailed Description using the singular or plural number may also include the plural or singular number respectively. The word or in reference to a list of two or more items covers all of the following interpretations of the word any of the items in the list all of the items in the list and any combination of the items in the list.

The above detailed description of examples of the technology is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the system to the precise form disclosed above. While specific examples of and examples for the system are described above for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the system as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. For example while processes or blocks are presented in a given order alternative examples may perform routines having steps or employ systems having blocks in a different order and some processes or blocks may be deleted moved added subdivided combined and or modified to provide alternative or subcombinations. Each of these processes or blocks may be implemented in a variety of different ways. Also while processes or blocks are at times shown as being performed in series these processes or blocks may instead be performed in parallel or may be performed at different times.

This application also incorporates by reference the following patent applications herein in their entirety 

The teachings of the technology provided herein can be applied to other systems not necessarily the system described above. The elements and acts of the various examples described above can be combined to provide further examples. Any patents and applications and other references noted above including any that may be listed in accompanying filing papers are incorporated herein by reference. Aspects of the system can be modified if necessary to employ the systems functions and concepts of the various references described above to provide yet further examples of the technology.

These and other changes can be made to the system in light of the above Detailed Description. While the above description describes certain examples of the system and describes the best mode contemplated no matter how detailed the above appears in text the system can be practiced in many ways. Details of the system and method for classifying and transferring information may vary considerably in its implementation details while still being encompassed by the system disclosed herein. As noted above particular terminology used when describing certain features or aspects of the system should not be taken to imply that the terminology is being redefined herein to be restricted to any specific characteristics features or aspects of the system with which that terminology is associated. In general the terms used in the following claims should not be construed to limit the system to the specific examples disclosed in the specification unless the above Detailed Description section explicitly defines such terms. Accordingly the actual scope of the system encompasses not only the disclosed examples but also all equivalent ways of practicing or implementing the technology under the claims.

While certain aspects of the technology are presented below in certain claim forms the inventors contemplate the various aspects of the technology in any number of claim forms. For example while only one aspect of the technology is recited as embodied in a computer readable medium other aspects may likewise be embodied in a computer readable medium. Accordingly the inventors reserve the right to add additional claims after filing the application to pursue such additional claim forms for other aspects of the technology.

