---

title: Heat transfer fluids containing nanoparticles
abstract: A nanofluid of a base heat transfer fluid and a plurality of ceramic nanoparticles suspended throughout the base heat transfer fluid applicable to commercial and industrial heat transfer applications. The nanofluid is stable, non-reactive and exhibits enhanced heat transfer properties relative to the base heat transfer fluid, with only minimal increases in pumping power required relative to the base heat transfer fluid. In a particular embodiment, the plurality of ceramic nanoparticles comprise silicon carbide and the base heat transfer fluid comprises water and water and ethylene glycol mixtures.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09340720&OS=09340720&RS=09340720
owner: UChicago Argonne, LLC
number: 09340720
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100630
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 222 804 filed Jul. 2 2009 and the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The United States Government claims certain rights in this invention pursuant to Contract No. W 31 109 ENG 38 between the United States Government and the University of Chicago and or pursuant to DE AC02 06CH11357 between the United States Government and UChicago Argonne LLC representing Argonne National Laboratory.

This invention relates to heat transfer fluids. More specifically this invention relates to heat transfer fluids containing nanoparticles frequently referred to as nanofluids.

This section is intended to provide a background or context to the invention that is inter alia recited in the claims. The description herein may include concepts that could be pursued but are not necessarily ones that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated herein what is described in this section is not prior art to the description and claims in this application and is not admitted to be prior art by inclusion in this section.

A nanofluid generally refers to a liquid mixture with a small concentration of nanometer sized about 1 to 500 nm length scale solid particles in suspension. Nanoparticles are typically made of chemically stable metals metal oxides or carbon in various forms. Some combinations of nanoparticles and liquids have been shown to substantially increase the heat transfer characteristics of the nanofluid over the base liquid.

Nanofluid heat transfer is a relatively new field being little more than a decade old. During that time effort has been focused on determining the levels of potential thermal conductivity and heat transfer enhancements of a variety of nanofluids. In these investigations the emphasis was usually on the magnitude of the thermal phenomena and not on the viability of the fluids for commercial applications. The thermal conductivity of nanofluids in particular has received considerable attention by researchers. Thermal conductivity is easier to measure than the heat transfer coefficient and has been used as an indicator of nanofluid heat transfer enhancement.

Enhancements in the thermal conductivities of nanofluids for the most part follow the predictions based on Maxwell s mean field theory assuming low concentrations and spherical nanoparticles or the effective medium theory EMT . For small nanoparticle concentrations EMT predicts thermal conductivity enhancement as 1 3 where and are thermal conductivities of the nanofluid and the base fluid respectively and is the nanoparticle volume fraction. However there are instances where the actual enhancements are significantly higher than EMT predictions at very low concentrations of nanoparticles. These anomalous enhancements have typically been reported for metallic nanoparticles in fluids. Modest thermal conductivity enhancements over EMT predictions can also be achieved by modifying the shape of the nanoparticles.

Thermal conduction in nanofluids has been attributed to a variety of mechanisms including Brownian motion interactions between the nanoparticles and the fluid clustering and agglomeration. There is no clear consensus on a specific mechanism however the general belief is that a combination of mechanisms may be operating and would be specific to a nanoparticle fluid system and test conditions. Further the effect of interface layers on the nanoparticles on thermal conductivity is not clearly understood. A metal particle with surface oxidation for example may increase the interfacial resistance and consequently reduce the thermal conductivity.

Experimental results from various nanofluid research efforts have considered a number of parameters including without limitation 1 particle volume concentration 2 particle material 3 particle size 4 particle shape 5 base fluid 6 temperature 7 additive and 8 pH. These studies have shown heat transfer enhancement results based on Nusselt number to be generally in the 15 40 range for particle volume concentrations up to 4 . Some research has found that the heat transfer enhancement was close to or somewhat above predictions from standard liquid heat transfer correlations using the nanofluid properties. Nusselt number enhancement of 40 is attractive to many applications if the nanofluid is commercially viable.

However studies of thermal phenomena in nanofluids have generally failed to make detailed characterizations of the fluids. For instance it is known that particle agglomeration may occur in many nanofluids so that the nominal particle size in a powder is often not the size in the suspension. In fact particle size distributions often exist in nanofluids but are seldom measured. As a result literature data based on nominal particle size may in fact have involved significantly different average particle sizes and distributions in suspension.

Industrial applications for nanofluid technology are in an embryonic stage. However today the nanofluid field has developed to the point where it is appropriate to look to the next level i.e. nanofluids that show substantial heat transfer enhancement over their base fluids and are candidates for use in industrial commercial systems. For example potential use of nanofluids for cooling systems such as radiators in vehicles will require not only enhanced thermal properties but also minimal negative mechanical effects of the nanofluid in a closed system. In this regard viscosity of the nanofluid for instance is a contributing factor to pumping power needed for the circulation of the nanofluid.

Further any erosive and clogging effects of the nanofluids on the fluid transmission lines or radiator can have an adverse effect on its use. Various nanofluids that may find widespread acceptance for industrial use should preferably be as a minimum stable suspensions with little or no particle settling available in large quantities at affordable cost environmentally neutral and non toxic. In addition such applications would generally prefer that there be little change in particle agglomeration over time and that the nanofluid not be susceptible to adverse surface adhesion.

A favorable combination of desirable nanofluid characteristics can be achieved with for example ceramic nanoparticles disposed in a base fluid. Ceramic nanoparticles are not susceptible to surface oxidation and enjoy significantly better chemical stability over longer periods of time than metals. Although ceramics in general have low thermal conductivities various ceramics possess thermal conductivities that make them attractive for use in nanofluids. Silicon carbide for example has one of the highest bulk thermal conductivities among ceramics. A silicon carbide water nanofluid provides a significant increase in heat transfer over a water base fluid while requiring only a minimal increase in pumping power. Further the silicon carbide water nanofluid is viable in both heating and cooling applications. These advantages can be extended to various ceramic nanoparticles and base fluid systems. For example ethylene glycol and solutions of water and ethylene glycol are attractive base fluids for commercial and industrial nanofluid heat transfer systems. Notably a ceramic water ethylene glycol nanofluid provides improved heat transfer with only a modest increase viscosity over the base fluid.

Implications of ceramic nanofluids with enhanced thermal characteristics can be significant in terms of efficient cooling systems higher productivity and energy savings. Some potential applications for nanofluids could be for heat exchangers radiators for engines process cooling systems microelectronics and other demanding heat transfer applications.

In one embodiment a nanofluid for use in a heat transfer application comprises a base heat transfer fluid and a plurality of ceramic nanoparticles dispersed throughout the base heat transfer fluid with a particle size and a particle concentration such that a stable nanofluid is formed. The preferred ceramic nanoparticles comprise a composition characterized by a thermal conductivity where the nanofluid has a nanofluid thermal conductivity that is greater than the base heat transfer fluid thermal conductivity. The nanofluid is further characterized by a coefficient of heat transfer that is greater than the base fluid coefficient of heat transfer at a constant Reynolds number for the nanofluid and base fluid.

These and other advantages and features of the invention together with the organization and manner of operation thereof will become apparent from the following detailed description when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings wherein like elements have like numerals throughout the several drawings described below.

The present invention pertains to a heat transfer fluid that provides a favorable combination of the characteristics most desirable in a nanofluid. For example an advantage of ceramic nanoparticles is that they are less susceptible to surface oxidation unlike metals and are thus much easier to incorporate into a fluid. Further the chemical stability of ceramic nanoparticles over long periods of time is significantly better than metals. While ceramics as a class of materials in general have low thermal conductivities various selected ceramics enjoy a relatively high thermal conductivity making them attractive for use in nanofluids.

Silicon carbide SiC for example has one of the highest bulk thermal conductivities among ceramics about 120 W m K. A SiC water nanofluid possesses many of the characteristics desirable in an industrially viable heat transfer nanofluid including being well behaved thermal conductivity enhancement is reasonably high and the viscosity increase is relatively low. Concentrated slurries of SiC in water are available to dilute with water or water and ethylene glycol to desired concentrations. Further settling and agglomeration do not occur under controlled pH. Still further the SiC water system presents a nanofluid that offers long term stability and ready availability. All of these conditions contribute to the potential commercial viability of the particular nanofluid as a heat transfer fluid. In a particular embodiment a SiC particle water nanofluid has been shown to achieve enhancement in thermal conductivity of at least about 28 percent over that of water alone. SiC dispersed in for example a mixture of ethylene glycol and water has also shown improved thermal conductivity and desirable viscosity characteristics. SiC dispersed in other fluids and various other ceramic particles and combinations thereof may likewise achieve similar advantages of characteristics indicative of enhanced heat transfer and industrial applicability. Accordingly these advantages can be extended to other ceramic nanofluid systems. For example carbide materials generally offer several advantages including the absence of oxidation and various carbides such as silicon carbide have relatively high thermal conductivities.

In order to characterize the applicability of various ceramic nanofluids as commercially viable heat transfer fluids a test facility was constructed. As shown in the test facility is a closed loop system that comprises a pump with variable speed drive a preheater horizontal tube test section a heat exchanger cooler and a flowmeter . The maximum system operating pressure and temperature were 273 kPa and 200 C. respectively for the SiC water nanofluid and the system flow rate was in the range of 17 to 1000 ml min allowing Reynolds numbers to 30 000. The preheater permits the inlet temperature to the test section to be set at desired levels. The test section comprises a type 316 stainless steel circular tube with dimensions of 2.27 mm inside diameter 4.76 mm outside diameter and a 0.58 m heated length. The preheater and the test section are individually resistance heated with controllable direct current power supplies not shown and are electrically isolated from the remainder of the facility with short sections of high pressure hose designated ISO in .

As a safety precaution both the preheater and test section are provided with high temperature limit interlocks to prevent them from being overheated. Thermocouples T are used to measure wall and fluid temperatures along the test section heated length for calculating heat transfer coefficients. The pressure at the test section inlet and pressure drop across the test section are also measured by using electronic pressure transducers . The pressure transducers the flowmeter and the thermocouples T were calibrated against standards traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology NIST . The estimated uncertainty in the measurements of pressures flowrate and temperatures are 3 1 and 0.2 C. respectively.

The typical test procedure involves fluid flow at a specific flow rate in the test section . In small increments heat is applied to the test section using a current controlled preheater . Using the flow control on the pump the preheater and the cooling water flow the desired test conditions are achieved. Once steady state is reached temperature data is acquired using the thermocouples T placed along the test section . Using the temperature data flow rates and pressures the heat transfer coefficient is determined. At steady state conditions all sensor outputs were read 30 times by the data acquisition system and then averaged together for future processing. These data included 10 test section outside wall temperatures T T test section inlet and outlet fluid temperatures Tand T test section inlet fluid pressure p overall pressure drop across the test section p current through the test section I voltage drop across the test section E test fluid flow rate temperature at the pump T heat exchanger cooler inlet and outlet temperatures of the nanofluid and cooling water T T T and T cooling water flow rate and ambient temperature.

A data acquisition system comprising a computer and a Hewlett Packard multiplexer was assembled to record outputs from all sensors. A data acquisition software program which includes all calibration equations and conversions to desired engineering units was written and deployed in the computer. The data acquisition system provides an on screen display of signals from all sensors and graphs of representative in stream and wall temperature measurements for steady state monitoring. When desired test conditions are reached the data acquisition system records multiple readings of temperatures power input fluid flow rate and pressures for subsequent data reduction.

Heat transfer tests were performed using the closed loop test system on the base fluid for example water for the SiC water nanofluid from the same source as used to produce the SiC water nanofluid. These tests provided baseline heat transfer data for comparison to nanofluid data and they served as control tests for the test facility. shows that the experimental Nusselt numbers for water are in good agreement with the predicted values from the Gneilinski equation with most of the differences less than 10 . This agreement serves as an overall verification of the facility sensors data acquisition and data reduction procedures. Although the test section was thermally well insulated from the atmosphere and the test section heat loss was small less than 1 during heat transfer tests the heat loss was incorporated into the data reduction procedure for improved accuracy.

A series of experiments of forced convective heat transfer under turbulent flow conditions were conducted to evaluate the performance of various ceramic nanofluids. The local convective heat transfer coefficient at a position x along the length of the test section is defined by Equation 1.

In Equation 1 the local surface heat flux q x was determined from the measured test section heater voltage and current corrected for losses and the local electrical resistivity of the tube as a function of temperature along the test section. The inner wall surface temperature of the test section T x was determined from a radial heat conduction calculation by using the measured outer surface temperature T x and the local heat generated in the test section wall per unit length q x . The local nanofluid temperature T x was calculated from a linear relation between test section inlet and outlet temperatures at the same location where the wall temperature T x was measured.

In one group of evaluations tests on a 3.7 vol. SiC water nanofluid were carried out with the following experimental parameters Reynolds number Re of 3300 13000 Prandtl number Pr of 4.6 7.1 and local nanofluid temperature for heat transfer coefficient determination Tof 34 C. to 57 C. In another set of tests measurements were made on fluids with particle loadings ranging from 1 7 vol. . However various nanofluids having an increased particle loading may be readily prepared in accordance with the teachings described herein. In yet another set of tests the test temperature was varied from about 25 C. to 70 C. for fluids with 1 4 vol. nanoparticle loadings. Further baseline thermal conductivities of fluid without nanoparticles were determined at each test condition to establish the effect of particle additions.

The pH values of the fluids were maintained between 9 10 to keep the nanoparticles uniformly dispersed. No surfactants were added to the fluids. Mean size of the SiC particles was 170 nm and both rounded as well as angular particles were observed. Viscosity of the 3.7 vol. nanofluid was 1.65 cP at 25 C. and on a normalized basis with water did not change with the test temperature. Optical microscopy of diluted nanofluid showed minimal agglomeration of the nanoparticles. The as fabricated nanofluid showed no particle settling. For physical and thermal characterizations as received fluids were diluted to various 1 4 vol. nanoparticle loadings using deionized water and NH OH solution used to maintain a pH of 10.

Results of the Nusselt number for the SiC water nanofluid are shown in and are compared to the water only data. The Nusselt numbers are plotted against the parameter RePrtaken from the Dittus Boelter correlation. Use of this parameter incorporates temperature effects on fluid properties. The nanofluid data of are seen to be above the water only data in all cases indicating an enhancement in heat transfer over the base fluid water taken at equal values of the parameter RePr.

The enhancement to the heat transfer of the SiC water nanofluid over its base fluid water is shown in detail in . Here is plotted the heat transfer enhancement the ratio of the experimental nanofluid heat transfer coefficient to the predicted water heat transfer coefficient from the Gneilinski correlation. Compared on the basis of Reynolds number the most common basis for comparison the nanofluid heat transfer enhancement is substantial and in the range of a 50 to 60 increase over water.

In order to determine nanofluid heat transfer coefficients from experimental measurements or from correlations based on such experiments nanofluid density and heat capacity are usually required. Here the effective density and specific heat were calculated based on the physical principle of the mixture rule Equation 2 as 1 Eq. 2 

Equation 3 is typically used for nanofluid specific heat and the effective specific heat determined through energy balances during the experiments in this study was found to be within 1 of the calculation.

In general comparing nanofluid heat transfer to its base fluid at constant Reynolds number is not the best basis of comparison. For example if the pressure drop and pumping power of the nanofluid are larger than those of the base fluid a higher velocity for the nanofluid would be required to achieve the same Reynolds number. Alternatively a constant velocity comparison may be used in various instances. presents a constant velocity comparison for the SiC water nanofluid. The results show that at a constant velocity the SiC water nanofluid has a heat transfer coefficient that is 7 below the base fluid. This trend is similar to results for aluminum oxide titanium oxide and zirconium oxide water nanofluids. However the decrease of the SiC water nanofluid heat transfer coefficient is less than the drop observed for the aluminum oxide nanofluid. By using a constant velocity comparison this reduced heat transfer coefficient of the nanofluids compared to that of the base fluid water occurs even though the thermal conductivities of the nanofluids are higher than that of the base fluid in all cases. The reasons for this result depend on several factors including the combination of thermal conductivity enhancement and viscosity increase found in the nanofluid. Increased thermal conductivity reduces resistance to thermal diffusion in the laminar sublayer of the boundary layer. However increased viscosity enlarges the thickness of the sublayer and in turn increases its resistance to heat transfer. The net effect depends on the magnitudes of these competing phenomena and the results for the SiC water nanofluid are the best of this group.

The potential of the SiC water nanofluid is also seen in the Mouromtseff value Mo that includes all of the fluid properties related by the Dittus Boelter equation Equation 4.

Here k Cp and are the thermal conductivity density specific heat and viscosity respectively. A fluid with the higher Mo provides a larger heat transfer coefficient at the same velocity for a particular system. The Mo ratio of SiC water nanofluids to water ranges from 0.95 to 0.83 for particle concentrations from 1.85 to 7.4 . Thus considering the Mo ratio in isolation the SiC water nanofluid in the tested ranges may not perform as well as water alone for certain heat transfer applications in the turbulent regime. However Mo does not incorporate any additional heat transfer mechanisms that have been observed in nanofluid heat transfer studies that indicate enhanced heat transfer of ceramic nanofluids.

If both the base fluid and nanofluid heat transfer coefficients are reasonably predictable by a standard single phase heat transfer correlation like the Dittus Boelter equation then the Mouromtseff number can be used to indicate the heat transfer coefficient of the nanofluid compared to its base fluid under conditions of constant velocity by using Equation 4. For example the ratio of the Mouromtseff number for an AlO water nanofluid to that of the base fluid water has been found to be 0.75. However the ratio of the SiC water to water ratio was found to be substantially higher average of 0.89. Higher values of the Mouromtseff ratio are indicative of better heat transfer.

The concept of pumping power penalty is often used as a measure of comparison in augmented heat transfer situations. Various applications are more sensitive to this factor than others. The pumping power may be combined with the heat transfer enhancement to produce a parameter indicative of the overall merit of a nanofluid. This nanofluid merit parameter is the ratio of the heat transfer enhancement to the pumping power increase i.e. h h Power Power . This parameter was calculated on the basis of constant flow velocities for the SiC water nanofluids and its base fluid water flowing in smooth tubes. Results are shown in for the SiC water nanofluid and compared to an AlO water nanofluid at a similar particle concentration. The merit parameter is of the order of about 0.8 for the SiC water nanofluid while it is about 0.6 for the AlO water nanofluid. A higher merit parameter value indicates a greater gain in the heat transfer enhancement compared to the pumping power penalty. A desirable characteristic for a potentially viable nanofluid would be a high heat transfer enhancement that justifies a small pumping power increase over the base fluid.

In the nanofluid heat transfer data of were compared to the predictions of the Gneilinski equation for the nanofluid. Here the predictions are from a standard single phase turbulent heat transfer correlation based on the fluid being a pure liquid with the thermal and transport properties of the nanofluid. As seen in the nanofluid heat transfer coefficient exceeded predictions in all cases ranging from 14 to 32 above the predictions. This enhancement over the predicted value points to a heat transfer mechanism beyond that of a pure liquid because of particle interactions and contributions. Various Prandtl number dependencies have been suggested for nanofluids compared to pure liquids including a modified form of the Dittus Boelter equation with a Prandtl number exponent of 0.5 and an altered form of the Gneilinski equation. Results of the altered Gneilinski equation are also depicted in and predict the performance of the SiC water nanofluid quite well.

Only two slip mechanisms Brownian diffusion and thermophoresis were considered large enough to be responsible for measured nanofluid heat transfer enhancement over pure liquids. These mechanisms cause the concentration of nanoparticles near the heat transfer surface to be different when the fluid is being heated or cooled. Thus it has been postulated that nanofluid heat transfer rates over base fluids would increase when being heated and decrease when being cooled. In all the cases discussed above heat transfer rates were measured when the nanofluids were being heated and nanofluid heat transfer coefficients were above their base fluids. To investigate the cooling condition a series of evaluations was performed using the cooling heat exchanger in the experimental facility. Here the average value of the heat transfer coefficient was obtained from a logarithmic mean temperature difference calculation using the flow rates and the inlet and outlet temperatures of both the nanofluid and coolant.

Heat transfer results are shown in for Nusselt numbers determined from measurements taken in the test section fluid being heated and in the cooler fluid being cooled . The water data are well predicted by the Gneilinski equation independent of the source i.e. test section or cooler which validates the experimental approach used. The SiC water nanofluid data were previously shown to be above the prediction when being heated. These test section results are reproduced in . The SiC water data from the cooler would be expected to fall below predictions in . However the opposite unexpectedly occurs. Experimental Nusselt numbers are seen in to lie along the same curve that is above predictions of the Gneilinski equation whether in heating or in cooling mode. These results do not support the mechanisms of Brownian diffusion and thermophoresis as being responsible for the enhanced SiC water nanofluid heat transfer rates over the base fluid water.

Whether or not nanofluid heat transfer data are predicted by liquid correlations gives insight into the heat transfer mechanisms involved. Although the results shown in do not support the mechanisms postulated the prediction of nanofluid heat transfer using increased Prandtl number dependence is clear from . However predictability by liquid heat transfer correlations is not a key factor in assessing the potential of heat transfer enhancement associated with nanofluids. One nanofluid may show higher heat transfer enhancement than another even though both are predictable by liquid correlations. It is a positive result in terms of heat transfer enhancement when nanofluid heat transfer exceeds the predictions of liquid correlations. Such is the case with the SiC water nanofluid.

Heat transfer enhancement in various nanofluids has been attributed to different mechanisms. For example particle coating of the heat transfer surfaces has been identified as influencing heat transfer. The SiC water nanofluid was found to coat the surface of the test section . The stainless steel test section is shown in before and after testing respectively with the SiC water nanofluid. It is evident that the nanoparticles deposited in the low areas of the surface formed a coating of the order of about 100 particles thick. However the coating did not contribute to the heat transfer results as evidenced by water data that were unchanged before and after the SiC coating was formed within the test section . Also no change in heat transfer rate over time was detected from the initial introduction of the SiC water nanofluid into the facility.

For physical and thermal characterizations as received fluids were diluted to various 1 4 vol. nanoparticle loadings using deionized water adjusted to a pH of 10 with sodium hydroxide. As seen in the particles size varies over a relatively wide range from about 60 to about 250 nm in the longest direction. Both rounded as well as angular platelet like particles are observed. shows the distribution of SiC nanoparticles in the diluted fluid obtained using an optical microscope. The image shows no visible agglomeration of the nanoparticles the size of the dark spots on the image not exceeding 0.2 0.05 m. Results of particle size measurements using Dynamic Laser Scattering DLS technique conducted using a table top instrument Brookhaven Instruments Corp. Holtsville N.Y. are shown in . High polydispersity about 30 of nanoparticles observed from the SEM and optical images is also reflected in the DLS spectra. Intensity and number distribution spectra show two peaks at 31 and 179 nm. Average particle size determined by lognormal distribution was about 130 nm.

Viscosities of the nanofluids 1.8 3.7 and 7.4 vol. particle loadings were measured as a function of temperature ranging from 15 C. to 55 C. and compared to viscosity of the deionized water. shows the room temperature viscosity increase of the nanofluid with nanoparticle loadings. Viscosity variations for the nanofluids as a function of temperature are shown in . The viscosity of water decreases with increasing temperature from ambient value of 1.1 cP at 15 C. to 0.5 cP at 55 C. With the addition of nanoparticles fluid viscosity increases with nanoparticle loadings. The highest viscosity 2.94 cP was observed at 15 C. for the nanofluid with 7.4 vol. loading. With increasing test temperatures viscosities of the nanofluids also decreased similar to the viscosity decrease of water. Experimental data on nanofluids viscosity depicted in were fitted with the Arrhenius equation Equation 5 to estimate the nanofluids viscosities at higher temperatures Eq. 5 

where and are the measured viscosity and viscosity at infinite temperature respectively Eis the activation energy to viscous flow J mol R is the gas constant and T is the absolute temperature in Kelvin. presents the viscosities of the SiC water nanofluids with three particle loadings normalized with that of base water as a function of test temperature. Interestingly the normalized viscosities of SiC water nanofluids are nearly constant over the range of experimentally studied temperature. shows viscosity enhancement of the SiC water ethylene glycol nanofluids equal volumes of water and ethylene glycol with three particle loadings normalized with that of base fluid of water ethylene glycol as a function of test temperature.

Measured viscosity for SiC water nanofluids are relatively low and linearly increase with the concentration of nanoparticles . Further there was no shear rate dependence of the viscosity indicative of Newtonian fluid behavior. Applying the Arrhenius relation to the experimental data yielded activation energy for the SiC water system to be 14 16 kJ mol which is somewhat lower than pure water 16.45 kJ mol . In the particle loading regime investigated there was no significant dependence of activation energy on particle loading. Physical interpretation of activation energy of viscous flow is not well developed for nanoparticle suspension but described as the mean potential energy of interaction of two molecules for pure liquids or as the steepness of the temperature dependence of ceramic suspension viscosity. Thus it appears that addition of SiC nanoparticles to water slightly decreases activation energy of viscous flow and at increasing temperatures viscosity of nanofluids will decrease faster than viscosity of the base fluid. A lower fluid viscosity implies lower pumping power that is advantageous from an industrial application standpoint.

Thermal conductivity of nanofluids was measured at 23 50 and 70 C. shows the normalized enhancements in the thermal conductivity for the nanofluids as a function of temperature. The variation of the thermal conductivity of the base water fluid was measured and was used for normalization. For all the nanoparticle loadings investigated enhancement in the thermal conductivity over that of water at the specific test temperature was maintained constant at all studied temperatures.

The silicon carbide water and silicon carbide water ethylene glycol nanofluid system exhibited an increase in the thermal conductivity as a function of particle loading at ambient room temperature. Surprisingly the enhancements over the Maxwell s theory predictions for spherical particles are larger at higher particle loadings. Not to be limited by theory this positive deviation can be rationalized based on the shape and or aggregation effects of SiC nanoparticles at higher loadings. A Hamilton Crosser model allows calculation of the thermal conductivity of a two component heterogeneous mixture as a function of the conductivity of pure materials composition of the mixture and the manner in which the pure materials are distributed throughout the mixture discontinuous phase particles of various shapes dispersed within continuous phase base fluid in either regular or irregular array . The effective k conductivity enhancement is given by Eq. 6.

Here kand kare the conductivities of the particle material and the base fluid respectively is the particle volume fraction n is the empirical shape factor given by n 3 and is sphericity defined as a ratio of surface area of the particle and equivalent surface area of the sphere for a constant volume. For spherical shaped particles the sphericity is 1 and it corresponds to a shape factor of 3 for which the Hamilton Crosser equation Equation 6 reduces to Maxwell s equation for the conductivity of randomly distributed and non interacting homogeneous spheres in a continuous medium. Further n 6 corresponds to cylindrical shaped particles with a 1 17 aspect ratio.

General trends in thermal conductivity enhancement of SiC water nanofluid can be explained by effective medium theory EMT using Hamilton Crosser modification for non spherical shape factors. Thermal conductivity enhancements relative to the base fluid at a specific temperature show temperature independence for the three different nanoparticle loadings depicted in . This observation is consistent with EMT i.e. no temperature dependence of the thermal conductivity enhancement considered by this model. For example the SiC water nanofluid showed enhancement in thermal conductivity was maintained at temperatures as high as 70 C. Maintaining thermal conductivity enhancement at elevated temperatures may be desirable for applications involving elevated temperature thermal management.

Although not to be limited by theory enhancements in thermal conductivity at higher particle loadings can be due to the contribution from the shapes of individual SiC nanoparticles or the formation of aggregates or clusters of SiC particles or a combination of both. Even though separated particles were observed with the optical microscopy conducted on highly diluted suspensions formation of agglomerates at higher volume fractions of nanoparticles may occur.

Additionally ceramic nanofluids can perform well in various commercial and industrial applications. Ceramic nanofluids for instance result in little or no erosion of the heat exchanger device during extended periods of use. For example zero erosion has been observed for a typical radiator material Al3003 being impacted by a stream of a 2 vol. SiC water nanofluid at angles of impact of 30 and 90 and at velocities between 4 and 8 m s for hundreds of hours.

For example Silicon carbide nanoparticles being a wide band semiconductor material can provide enhanced solar to thermal energy conversion when used in a heat exchanger. The SiC nanoparticles have enhanced solar to thermal conversion characteristics that may facilitate solar energy conversion when exposed to sunlight in the heat transfer fluid pipe of a heat exchange system. Use of SiC nanoparticles in a nanofluid can lead to a rapid temperature rise and possibly a higher heat transfer fluid temperature at the heat exchanger inlet at a fixed fluid flow rate. With reference to simulations based on single particle Mie theory show that absorbed power for each SiC particle in the base fluid as a function of particle size over the solar spectrum range of 200 2000 nm. This absorption is above the base fluid. By way of example in a nanofluid with SiC nanoparticles with a diameter of 100 nm at 5 vol. loading absorption will be enhanced by more than 10 for the nanofluid with respect to the fluid with no nanoparticles i.e. the base fluid. Further enhancement may be obtained by varying the particle size and loading. As such addition of SiC nanoparticles could result is additional and or enhanced conversion of solar energy to thermal energy. Or in a given time period the temperature rise of the fixed volume of fluid will be higher as compared to the fluid without the nanoparticles. It is anticipated that such a development could increase overall efficiency and reduce costs to produce electricity from solar source.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

