---

title: System, method, and computer program for segmenting a content stream
abstract: A system, method, and computer program product are provided for segmenting a content stream. In use, a content stream associated with an event is identified. Additionally, user generated content associated with the content stream is identified. Further, a timing of one or more key events within the content stream is determined, based on the user generated content. Further still, the one or more key events are identified, based on the user generated content. Also, the content stream is segmented, utilizing the one or more key events and the timing of the one or more key events. In addition, a subset of the user generated content and a subset of the one or more key events is associated with a segment of the content stream. Furthermore, a search index associated with the segment of the content stream is generated, utilizing the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events. Further still, a search query is received from a user. Also, search results are provided to the user in response to the search query, utilizing the search index associated with the segment of the content stream.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08994311&OS=08994311&RS=08994311
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 08994311
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20101005
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 345 031 entitled SYSTEM METHOD AND COMPUTER PROGRAM FOR SEGMENTING A CONTENT STREAM filed May 14 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Internet video in all its forms is one of the fastest growing areas of use on the Internet. For example Internet video is now approximately one third of all consumer Internet traffic not including the amount of video exchanged through peer to peer P2P file sharing. In the future it is predicted that various forms of video e.g. TV video on demand VoD Internet Video P2P etc. may exceed 90 percent of global consumer traffic.

Finding interesting and relevant media online is a key challenge especially since traditional text based search strategies may struggle when it comes to video and other media sources. Manual tagging and automatic speech recognition may help to some degree but these tend to be either time consuming or inaccurate.

This difficulty in search is coupled with user s fast reducing attention spans particularly in the fast moving mobile Internet which leads to a severe information overload problem.

A system method and computer program product are provided for segmenting a content stream. In use a content stream associated with an event is identified. Additionally user generated content associated with the content stream is identified. Further a timing of one or more key events within the content stream is determined based on the user generated content. Further still the one or more key events are identified based on the user generated content. Also the content stream is segmented utilizing the one or more key events and the timing of the one or more key events. In addition a subset of the user generated content and a subset of the one or more key events is associated with a segment of the content stream. Furthermore a search index associated with the segment of the content stream is generated utilizing the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events. Further still a search query is received from a user. Also search results are provided to the user in response to the search query utilizing the search index associated with the segment of the content stream.

Coupled to the network is a plurality of devices. For example a server computer and an end user computer may be coupled to the network for communication purposes. Such end user computer may include a desktop computer lap top computer and or any other type of logic. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television etc.

As shown a system is provided including at least one central processor which is connected to a communication bus . The system also includes main memory e.g. random access memory RAM etc. . The system also includes a graphics processor and a display .

The system may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer programs or computer control logic algorithms may be stored in the main memory the secondary storage and or any other memory for that matter. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform various functions to be set forth below for example . Memory storage and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

As shown in operation a content stream associated with an event is identified. In one embodiment the content stream may include any type of streaming content. For example the content stream may include any form of content media that is streamed broadcasted recorded etc. In another embodiment the content stream may be located on any type of media. For example the content stream may be located online on physical storage etc. Additionally the content may include any type of content that is capable of being streamed. For example the content may include one or more of video content audio content text content etc.

Further the event may include any type of occurrence that may be captured in a content stream. For example the event may include a television show a sporting event a conference a political debate etc. More specifically the content stream may include a stream of such event. Further still in one embodiment the content stream may be identified by receiving the content stream. For example the content stream may be downloaded monitored intercepted etc.

Additionally as shown in operation user generated content associated with the content stream is identified. In one embodiment the user generated content may include any content generated by one or more users that is associated with the content stream. For example the user generated content may include a web log blog entry about the content stream a tweet about the content stream a short message service SMS message about the content stream a phone call about the content stream social commentary about the content stream etc. In one embodiment the user generated content may be directly associated with the content stream. For example the user generated content may directly address one or more elements of the content stream. In another embodiment the user generated content may be indirectly associated with the content stream. For example the user generated content may include one or more keywords associated with the content stream etc. Of course however the user generated content may be associated with the content stream in any manner.

In another embodiment the user generated content may include automatically generated content. For example the user generated content may include an automated update a preprogrammed response an artificially produced update etc. Additionally in one embodiment the user generated content associated with the content stream may be identified by receiving the user generated content. For example the user generated content may be downloaded monitored intercepted etc.

Further a timing of one or more key events within the content stream is determined based on the user generated content. See operation . In one embodiment the key events may include one or more points in the content stream that are determined to be significant. For example the key events may include one or more points in the content stream that caught user interest more than others e.g. a crash or overtaking move in an automobile race a controversial comment during a political debate etc. .

In another embodiment determining the timing of the one or more key events may include synchronizing the content stream with the user generated content. For example the content stream and user generated content may be synchronized with respect to time. Additionally the timing of the one or more key events may be determined by monitoring a volume of the user generated content. For example a key event may be determined within the content stream if a particular volume of user generated content associated with the content stream is identified within a predetermined amount of time. In another example a traffic analyzer may be used to determine the volume of the user generated content.

Further still as shown in operation the one or more key events are identified based on the user generated content. In one embodiment one or more descriptions within the user generated content may be identified e.g. using one or more machine learning algorithms etc. . For example one or more keywords tags topics or other descriptive data within the user generated content may be identified. Further the one or more descriptions may be correlated with the one or more key events. For example a key event may be correlated labeled etc. with a description within the user generated content based on the time of the key event and the time the description was generated.

Also as shown in operation the content stream is segmented utilizing the one or more key events and the timing of the one or more key events. In one embodiment the segmenting may include marking the one or more key events within the content stream based on the timing of the one or more key events. For example the one or more key events may be marked on an illustration representing the content stream. In another embodiment the segmenting may include labeling the key events within the content stream. For example each of the one or more key events marked within the content stream may be labeled based on the identification of the particular key event. In yet another embodiment the segmenting may include dividing the content stream into one or more portions based on the timing of the one or more key events. For example the content stream may be divided into multiple portions where each portion contains one or more key events.

In this way key events in the content stream associated with the event may be identified by looking at an amount of user generated content being written about the event and by analyzing the content itself.

Further as shown in operation a subset of the user generated content and a subset of the one or more key events is associated with a segment of the content stream. For example one or more elements of the user generated content that were generated during the same time the segment of the content stream was shown may be associated with the segment of the content stream. In another example the subset of the one or more key events having a timing that occurs during the same time the segment of the content stream was shown may be associated with the segment of the content stream.

In one embodiment the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events may be associated with the segment of the content stream by linking the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events with the segment of the content stream. For example the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events may be linked with the segment of the content stream in a database or other data store. Of course however the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events may be associated with the segment of the content stream in any manner.

Further still as shown in operation a search index associated with the segment of the content stream is generated utilizing the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events. For example the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events may be included in the search index. In the context of the present embodiment the search index may include any index that is used in association with a search. For example the search index may be used to conduct a search of the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events. In another example the search index may be used to conduct a search of one or more segments of one or more content streams. In another embodiment the search index may be used in association with a local network search an Internet search a database search or any other type of search. In yet another embodiment the search index may be stored on a database a distributed system or any other storage medium.

Also as shown in operation a search query is received from a user. In one embodiment the search query may be alphanumeric may include a string may include one or more operators AND OR XOR etc. etc. Of course however the search query may include any query to be used in the performance of a search. Additionally in another embodiment the search query may be received utilizing a graphical user interface GUI . For example the user may input the search query into a search form that is part of the GUI.

Furthermore as shown in operation search results are provided to the user in response to the search query utilizing the search index associated with the segment of the content stream. In one embodiment the search query may be compared against the search index associated with the segment of the content stream as well as against additional search indexes associated with additional segments of the content stream segments of other content streams or any other search indexes.

In one embodiment the search results may include the segment of the content stream. For example the search query may be compared against the search index and if a match is found based on the comparison the segment of the content stream may be output to the user. In yet another embodiment the search results may include a link to the segment of the content stream. In still another embodiment the search results may include one or more words associated with the subset of the user generated content and the subset of the one or more key events.

Also in one embodiment the search results may be tailored according to one or more criteria. For example the search results may be ordered ranked etc. based on a popularity of each of the search results. In another embodiment the search results may be tailored according to one or more elements associated with the user. For example the search results may be ordered ranked etc. based on past user searches. In another example the search results may be ordered ranked etc. based on one or more portions of the user generated content associated with the user. For example the search results may be ranked based on one or more portions of the user generated content drafted by the user. In this way the search results may be personalized with respect to the user resulting in user search results that are more relevant to the user. Also in another embodiment a personal summary of the one or more key events may be provided to the user based on one or more criteria. For example the personal summary of the one or more key events may be provided to the user based on a profile of the user.

More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing method may or may not be implemented per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.

As shown the system architecture includes a user generated content source . In one embodiment the user generated content source may include any source of user generated content. For example the user generated content source may include live user generated content previously generated user content etc. In another example the user generated content source may include a user generated content stream. In another embodiment the content of the user generated content source may be chronologically ordered. In yet another embodiment the content of the user generated content source may be selected manually and or automatically. Of course however the content of the user generated content source may be selected in any manner.

Additionally the system architecture includes a traffic analyzer . In one embodiment the traffic analyzer may be used to determine a timing of key events from within the user generated content source . For example the traffic analyzer may analyze a level of traffic e.g. a frequency of adding comments etc. of the user generated content. This analysis may be performed using methods such as traffic level analyses a CW Buzz detection algorithm machine learning techniques etc. Additionally particular levels of traffic may be identified by the traffic analyzer as being associated with key events.

Further the system architecture includes a visual representation of a user generated content stream illustrating key events. Another exemplary visual representation of a volume of a user generated content stream is shown in in accordance with one embodiment. In yet another embodiment the traffic analyzer may determine a timing of key events within the user generated content source by analyzing one or more topics from within the user generated content source. Additionally in another embodiment one or more machine learning algorithms may be used in determining the timing of key events within the user generated content source.

Further the system architecture includes a content analyzer . In one embodiment the content analyzer may identify the one or more key events of the user generated content source . In another embodiment the content analyzer may extract from the user generated content information that correlates to the key points in the user generated content. For example the content analyzer may extract from the user generated content one or more keywords tags etc. that correlate to the key points in the user generated content. In one embodiment the keywords may have a form of a tag cloud. One exemplary representation of a tag cloud is shown in in accordance with one embodiment.

In yet another embodiment personalized key events may be identified within the user generated content. For example the content analyzer may identify personalized key events within the user generated content that appeal to a particular user or community of users such as events related to a particular athlete that has a particular following. In another embodiment the personalized key events may be identified despite the fact that they are not as popular as other events and are overshadowed by those events in the user generated content.

In another embodiment the content analyzer may identify individual user generated comments that most accurately reflect the key events within the content stream. For example the content analyzer may perform such identification utilizing data mining or an equivalent machine learning technique. One exemplary representation of an identified key event is shown in in accordance with one embodiment.

Further still the system architecture includes an application programming interface API which is exposed to a third party destination and a graphical interface . In one embodiment the API may feed information to the third party destination and or the graphical interface .

In this way the system architecture may provide user generated content and or social commentary associated with key events of the content stream e.g. to the third party destination the graphical interface etc. . Additionally the system architecture may provide an overall summary of the event e.g. to the third party destination the graphical interface etc. . Further in one embodiment the system architecture may provide a characterization about the event. For example such characterization may be chronological e.g. events during the course of a sports event non chronological top ten key events etc.

In another embodiment personalized summaries of the key events may be provided to one or more users by the system architecture . For example the system architecture may use the key events and their corresponding identifications to provide personalized summaries to one or more users of the system architecture . In one embodiment the personalized summaries may be based on the content of the social commentaries one or more user profiles etc. For example a user profile may be created based on but not limited to the user s own social commentary their current search query a recorded viewing or browsing behavior one or more profiles of similar users etc. In another embodiment the personalized summaries may be based on elements from multiple content streams. For example a personalized summary may be based on key events from multiple user generated content streams.

In another embodiment the system architecture may be used to generate one or more search indexes for the content stream based on one or more elements. For example the system architecture may be used to generate one or more search indexes for the content stream based on key events that are identified. In this way such indexes could be used to power large scale media search engines etc.

Further the system architecture includes a media source . In one embodiment the media source may be used to determine relevant content in the content stream. For example the system architecture may pair a timing of one or more key events in the content stream with the broadcast time of an event provided by the media source in order to determine relevant content in the content stream.

Further still in one embodiment the system architecture may provide identified key events as a navigation aid bookmarks etc. to a user browsing through the content feed looking for interesting events e.g. via the graphical interface etc. . Additionally in another embodiment the system architecture may provide the identified key events as feedback e.g. to support content editing etc. .

Also in yet another embodiment the identified key events and segmentation may be provided e.g. via the API etc. for application development. In another embodiment the system architecture may use identified key events in order to share relevant events with other users or pluralities of users. Additionally in one embodiment the system architecture may provide personalized advertising based on one or more interests of the user or the plurality of users the identified key events etc. In yet another embodiment the system architecture may provide automatic commentary of a content stream by using identified key events including key terms etc. to determine relevant social comments for each segment associated with the content stream. These relevant social comments may then be used as a commentary for the stream as part of an automated commentary stream etc.

As shown in operation multiple instances of user generated content associated with a content stream are recorded as well as timestamps associated with each instance of the user generated content. In one embodiment each timestamp may indicate a time associated with the user generated content. For example each timestamp may indicate a time at which the instance of user generated content was created posted sent etc.

Additionally in another embodiment the multiple instances of user generated content may be recorded in the same location as the timestamps. For example the multiple instances of user generated content and the timestamps may both be saved to a single database. In another embodiment the multiple instances of user generated content may be recorded in a different location as the timestamps e.g. different databases etc. . In still another embodiment the recorded timestamps may be associated with the recorded multiple instances of user generated content. For example each of the recorded multiple instances of user generated content may be linked to its particular timestamp.

Further as shown in operation the multiple instances of user generated content are divided into segments. In one embodiment the multiple instances of user generated content may each be associated with a time segment. For example one or more intervals of time may be determined e.g. based on a time of an event a portion of an event etc. and each instance of user generated content may be associated with a particular time interval. In another example each instance of user generated content may be associated with a particular time interval based on the timestamp associated with the instance of user generated content. For instance one or more instances of user generated content that are associated with timestamps indicating a time falling within a particular time interval may be associated with that particular time interval. In this way each instance of user generated content may be associated with the time segment in which the instance of user generated content occurred.

In another embodiment the segments may be determined statically. For example an event may be divided into present segment intervals e.g. by time etc. . In another example a time duration during which user generated content was recorded may be divided into present segment intervals. In yet another embodiment the segments may be determined dynamically. For example the segments may be determined in real time e.g. during an event the recording of user generated content etc. . In another example the segments may be determined using one or more configurable intervals.

Further still as shown in operation search indexes are generated on the user generated content based on each segment. In one embodiment the search indexes may be generated based on the text of the user generated content. In another embodiment one or more key terms may be identified for each segment based on the text of each instance of user generated content associated with that segment. For example a term frequency score may be determined for each term that occurs within a particular segment. Additionally a term importance may be determined based on a relative frequency of each term occurring within a particular segment when compared to one or more additional segments. In this way one or more terms occurring within a particular segment of an event may be determined to be key terms for that segment e.g. if those one or more terms occur more frequently in that segment than when compared to other segments etc. . In another embodiment the one or more key terms associated with each segment may be included in the search index for that segment.

For instance during an event such as a football match if a team in the match scores a goal during a particular segment the term frequency of the term goal for that segment may be extremely high. Additionally the term goal may not occur as frequently in other segments of the event during which no goals were scored. Therefore the relative frequency of the term goal may be high during the segment where the goal is scored and such term may therefore be identified as a key term for that segment and may be included in a search index associated with that segment. In this way when a user searches for the term goal the segment of the event during which the goal was scored may rank near the top of a search results list.

In addition as shown in operation one or more video clips are generated based on the content stream and the segments. For example the one or more video clips may include one or more portions of the content stream. In one embodiment each video clip may correspond to a segment of user generated content. For example a start and end time of a generated video clip may correspond to the start and end time of a time segment. In another embodiment the start and end time of the video clip may be based on a predetermined clip length value.

In still another embodiment the start and end time of the video clip may be calculated using a clip length offset. Such offset may be dynamic predetermined etc. For example a delay of five to twenty seconds may be subtracted from the start and end time of a time segment in order to determine the start and end time of the video clip associated with that time segment. In this way the start and end time of a video clip may compensate for a delay between an occurrence of a happening within the content stream and the publishing of user generated content associated with that happening thereby keeping the video clip in sync with the user generated content.

Also each of the one or more video clips may be associated with a segment of user generated content. For example a video clip corresponding to a segment of user generated content may be associated with such segment e.g. by a link through a database etc. . In this way the one or more key terms identified for a particular segment may be associated with the video clip that is associated with that segment.

Furthermore as shown in operation a user search associated with the search indexes is performed utilizing a search interface. In one embodiment a user may submit a search query as part of an Internet based search a search of an event database or any other type of search utilizing the search interface. In another embodiment the search indexes generated on the user generated content may be included within such search. For example the search query may be compared against the search indexes as part of the search process. In another example the search indexes may be included within a larger search index e.g. an Internet search engine index a corporate index etc. .

Additionally in another embodiment in response to the user search one or more search results may be provided to the user via the search interface based on the search indexes. For example the results may include one or more segments of the user generated content that include a key term matching one or more user search terms. In another embodiment the results may include a link to a segment of the user generated content. Additionally in one embodiment the results may include a video clip associated with a segment of the user generated content that includes a key term matching one or more user search terms.

In yet another embodiment the results may include one or more of a link to the video clip a relevant frame image associated with the video clip one or more key term associated with the video clip one or more instances of social commentary associated with the video clip etc. In one embodiment a video clip associated with a particular segment may be dynamically generated in response to a search result containing that segment. In another embodiment the video clip associated with a particular segment may be previously generated and stored and may be retrieved in response to a search result containing that segment.

Additionally in one embodiment the search results may be ranked. For example the search results may be ranked based on popularity time etc. Further in another embodiment search indexes associated with multiple different events may be included in the search. In this way the search may not be limited to a single event and it may be possible to perform a simultaneous search of multiple events e.g. television shows channels networks etc. .

As shown the system interface includes a video feed and social commentary traffic . In one embodiment the video feed may be synchronized with the social commentary traffic . As shown peaks in the social commentary traffic illustrate events of high interest e.g. events that are being commented on by many users etc. . In another embodiment when a user selects a peak in the social commentary traffic the video feed may show the relevant piece of footage from the content stream.

Additionally the system interface includes relevant comments . In one embodiment the relevant comments may be associated with the selected peak in the social commentary traffic the relevant footage displayed in the video feed etc. Additionally the system interface includes a list of keywords or tags correlating with the key events in the content stream. In this way the system interface may synchronize the video feed and the social commentary traffic in order to identify key segments within the race.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

