---

title: Light timeout optimization
abstract: A lighting controller may optimize a timeout value of a lamp based on the goals of saving energy and providing occupant comfort. The lamp may illuminate a lighting area. The lighting controller may determine a false-negative rate for the lamp from sensor data that represents a frequency at which the lamp is timed out while the lighting area is occupied. The lighting controller may adjust the timeout value of the lamp over time so that the false-negative rate approaches a threshold false-negative rate. The false-negatives and occupancy periods may be detected from spikes in time distributions of motion data. The amount of energy that the lamp would consume at an increased timeout value of the lamp may be determined from motion data stored while the timeout value of the lamp is at an initial timeout value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08538596&OS=08538596&RS=08538596
owner: Redwood Systems, Inc.
number: 08538596
owner_city: Fremont
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101220
---
An occupancy sensor may detect whether an area is occupied. A device may switch off lights if the occupancy sensor indicates that the area is not occupied. The device may switch on lights if the occupancy sensor indicates that the area is occupied.

A lighting controller may be provided for optimizing a timeout value of a lamp that illuminates a lighting area. The lighting controller may include a memory an occupancy model and a demand model. The memory may include sensor data. The occupancy model may determine a false negative rate for the lamp from the sensor data. The false negative rate may include a frequency at which the lamp is timed out when the lighting area is occupied. The demand model may increase the timeout value of the lamp in response to the false negative rate being above a threshold false negative rate. Furthermore the demand model may decrease the timeout value of the lamp in response to the false negative rate being below the threshold false negative rate.

A tangible non transitory computer readable medium may be provided that is encoded with computer executable instructions to optimize a timeout value of a lamp that illuminates a lighting area. The instructions when executed may determine a false negative rate for the lamp from sensor data where the false negative rate is a frequency at which the lamp is timed out when the lighting area is occupied. The timeout value of the lamp may be increased in response to a determination that the false negative rate is above a threshold false negative rate. The timeout value of the lamp may be decreased in response to a determination that the false negative rate is below the threshold false negative rate.

A method may be provided that optimizes a timeout value of a lamp that illuminates a lighting area. A false negative rate for the lamp is determined from sensor data. The false negative rate may be a frequency at which the lamp is timed out when the lighting area is occupied. The timeout value of the lamp may be increased in response to the false negative rate being above a threshold false negative rate. In contrast the timeout value of the lamp may be decreased in response to the false negative rate being below the threshold false negative rate.

A method may be provided that optimizes a timeout value of a lamp that illuminates a lighting area. Motion trips may be detected. Durations may be determined where each respective one of the durations is a time difference between two consecutive motion trips. The number of the durations that are within a first time range may be determined where the first time range includes values larger than the timeout value of the lamp.

The number of the durations that are within a second time range may be determined. The number of false negatives that occurred may be determined based on the number of durations in the first time range and the number of durations in the second time range. The false negatives may be conditions that occur when the lamp is timed out while the lighting area is occupied. The timeout value of the lamp may be adjusted based on the number of false negatives.

Further objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description reference being made to the accompanying drawings wherein preferred embodiments of the present invention are shown.

A lighting system may include light fixtures that provide light to a physical site or multiple sites. A control system may interpret control and learn aspects of the operation of the light system based on management goals set by an operator or user. In one example the lighting system may include the control system. In a second example the two systems may be physically separate from each other. In a third example the lighting and control systems may be intermixed.

The lighting system the control system or both may be capable of controlling one or more small residential buildings such as single family homes and one or more large commercial sites such as office buildings building campuses factories warehouses and retail stores. The lighting system may control and obtain sensor data at rather high degrees of spatial resolution such as receiving sensor data from each individual light fixture. Alternatively or in addition one lighting area lit by multiple light fixtures may be controlled by sensor data received by a single sensor. The high resolution may increase the complexity of operating the systems through a traditional control system. Nevertheless the control system may greatly increase overall system performance and simplify operation of the lighting system.

The light fixtures the sensors and the input devices may be affixed to attached to or otherwise associated with a physical site . The physical site may include any human made structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any continuous or non continuous use or occupancy. For example the physical site may include a residential home a commercial structure a mobile home or any other structure that provides shelter to humans animals mobile robotic devices or any other tangible items. The physical site may include any number of lighting areas that are illuminated by one or more of the light fixtures . Alternatively or in addition one or more of the lighting areas may be outside of the physical site .

The lighting controller may be in communication with the light fixtures the sensors and the input devices over the data network . The data network may be a communications bus a local area network LAN a Power over Ethernet PoE network a wireless local area network WLAN a personal area network PAN a wide area network WAN the Internet Broadband over Power Line BPL any other now known or later developed communications network or any combination thereof. For example the data network may include wiring electrically coupling the lighting controller to devices such as the light fixtures the sensors and the input devices where the wiring carries both power and data. Alternatively the data network may include an overlay network dedicated to communication and another network that delivers power to the devices.

The light fixtures may include any electrical device or combination of devices that create artificial light from electricity. The light fixture may distribute filter or transform the light from one or more lamps included or installed in the light fixture . Alternatively or in addition the light fixture may include one or more lamps and or ballasts. The lamps may include an incandescent bulb a LED Light emitting Diode light a fluorescent light a CFL compact fluorescent lamp a CCFL Cold Cathode Fluorescent Lamp halogen lamp or any other device now known or later discovered that generates artificial light. Examples of the light fixture include a task wall bracket fixture a linear fluorescent high bay a spot light a recessed louver light a desk lamp a commercial troffer or any other device that includes one or more lamps. References to the light fixtures may also be understood to apply to one or more lamps within the light fixtures .

The sensors may include a photosensor an infrared motion sensor any other motion detector a thermometer a particulate sensor a radioactivity sensor any other type of device that measures a physical quantity and converts the quantity into an electromagnetic signal or any combination thereof. For example the sensors may measure the quantity of O2 CO2 CO VOC volatile organic compound humidity evaporated LPG liquefied petroleum gas NG natural gas radon or mold in air measure the quantity of LPG NG or other fuel in a tank and or measure sound waves with a microphone an ultrasonic transducer or any combination thereof.

The input devices may include any device or combination of devices that receives input from a person or a device. Examples of the input devices include a phone a wall light switch a dimmer switch a switch for opening doors any device that may control light fixtures directly or indirectly any device used for security purposes or for detecting an occupant a dongle a RFID radio frequency identifier card RFID readers badge readers a remote control or any other suitable input device.

The lighting controller may include a device or combination of devices that controls the light fixtures in the lighting system . Examples of the lighting controller may include a microcontroller a central processing unit a FPGA field programmable gate array a server computer a desktop computer a laptop a cluster of general purpose computers a dedicated hardware device a panel controller or any combination thereof. One example of the lighting controller includes the goal based lighting controller described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 815 886 entitled GOAL BASED CONTROL OF LIGHTING filed Jun. 15 2010 the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference. The lighting controller may be located in the physical site outside of the physical site such as in a parking garage outdoor closet in a base of a street light in a remote data center or any other location.

The user computing device may include a device that hosts the GUI . Examples of the user computing device include a desktop computer a handheld device a laptop computer a tablet computer a personal digital assistant a mobile phone and a server computer. The user computing device may be a special purpose device dedicated to a particular software application or a general purpose device. The user computing device may be in communication with the lighting controller over a communications network such as the data network . Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may host the GUI and the operator may interact with the lighting controller directly without the use of the user computing device .

The graphical user interface GUI may be any component through which people interact with software or electronic devices such as computers hand held devices portable media players gaming devices household appliances office equipment displays or any other suitable device. The GUI may include graphical elements that present information and available actions to a user. Examples of the graphical elements include text text based menus text based navigation visual indicators other than text graphical icons and labels. The available actions may be performed in response to direct manipulation of the graphical elements or to any other manner of receiving information from humans. For example the GUI may receive the information from the manipulation of the graphical elements though a touch screen a mouse a keyboard a microphone or any other suitable input device. More generally the GUI may be software hardware or a combination thereof through which people users interact with a machine device computer program or any combination thereof.

The lighting system may include any number and type of load devices. A load device may be any device that may be powered by the lighting controller the power device or any combination thereof. Examples of the load devices may include the light fixtures the sensors the user inputs the switchable window a ceiling fan motor a servomotor in an HVAC Heating Ventilating and Air Conditioning system to control the flow of air in a duct an actuator that adjusts louvers in a window or a blind an actuator that adjusts a window shade or a shutter devices included in other systems thermostats photovoltaics solar heaters or any other type device. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller the power device or any combination thereof may communicate with the load devices.

The power device may be any device or combination of devices that powers one or more load devices such as the light fixtures . In one example the power device may both power and communicate with the load devices. In a second example the power device may power the load devices while the lighting controller may communicate with the load devices and the power device. In a third example the lighting controller may include the power device. In a fourth example the lighting controller may be in communication with the power device where the two are separate devices.

During operation of the lighting system the operator may interact with the lighting controller through the GUI . For example the operator may configure parameters through the GUI . The parameters may include timeout values power levels management goals related to the operation of the lighting system and other settings. The lighting controller may control the load devices such as the light fixtures throughout the physical site so as to achieve the management goals set the power levels implement the timeout values or otherwise operate the lighting system in accordance with the parameters.

In one example the lighting controller may directly control the power levels delivered to load devices receive sensor data from the sensors and receive input from the input devices over the data network . In a second example the lighting controller may communicate with the power device in order to direct the power device to control the power levels delivered to load devices to receive sensor data from the sensors and to receive input from the input devices .

The physical site may be illuminated from light generated by the light fixtures as controlled by the lighting controller . Additionally the physical site may be illuminated from natural light . For example the natural light may pass through wall windows or skylights. Alternatively or in addition artificial light not under the control of the lighting system such as light from a pre existing system may illuminate at least a portion of the physical site .

Occupants may live in work in pass through or otherwise move within the physical site . The occupants may be people animals or any other living creature or any object that moves such as a mobile robotic device.

The lighting area may be occupied when one or more of the occupants is in the lighting area. Alternatively or in addition the lighting area may be occupied when data such as the sensor data indicates that one or more of the occupants is in the lighting area.

In one example the sensors may be distributed throughout the physical site with a high enough concentration of the sensors so that sensor data covers the entire physical site or desired locations within the physical site . For example the sensors may be located at each one of the light fixtures or in each lighting area. Alternatively or in addition fewer sensors may be located in the lighting area than light fixtures. Sensor data covers a particular area when the sensor data provides information about any physical location within the area. The sensors may detect the presence of the occupants throughout the physical site . The sensors may measure site parameters that reflect measured characteristics of the physical site and device parameters that reflect measured characteristics of devices such as the load devices or any combination thereof. Examples of site parameters may include down ambient light side ambient light room air temperature plenum air temperature humidity carbon monoxide or any other physical property. Examples of device parameters may include power consumption current flow voltages operating temperature and operational status.

The lighting controller may include spatial orientation information about the sensors . For example the relative locations of the sensors and the light fixtures may be stored in memory of the lighting controller .

In one example the lighting controller may turn on one or more of the light fixtures when one or more of the occupants is detected in a lighting area. The lighting controller may detect one or more of the occupants in the lighting area from the sensor data received from one or more of the sensors from input data received from one or more of the input devices from any other data that indicates the lighting area is occupied or from a combination thereof. For example the sensor data may indicate that one of the sensors detected movement in the lighting area. The detected movement may indicate that one or more of the occupants is in the lighting area. The lighting controller may identify the light fixtures that illuminate the lighting area and turn on the identified light fixtures in response to detecting any of the occupants in the lighting area. If for example no occupant is detected in the lighting area after a timeout value such as 3 minutes is reached then the lighting controller may time out the identified light fixtures .

Each of the light fixtures may be timed out by changing the state of the light fixture after a timeout period passes or before the time indicated in the timeout value elapses. For example the lighting controller may turn the light fixture off if no motion is detected in the lighting area during the timeout period. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may change the brightness color or other characteristic of light generated by the light fixture if no occupant is detected in the lighting area during the timeout period. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may generate an audible sound if no occupant is detected in the lighting area during the timeout period. If no occupant is detected within a delay period after the audible sound is produced the lighting controller may turn the light fixture off.

In a particular lighting area there may be a number of the sensors and or the light fixtures that are grouped together. For example if any of the sensors in the group detect any occupant then the light fixtures in the group may be turned on in response. Thus in one example all of the sensors in the group may have to detect no occupant for the duration of the timeout period in order for the light fixtures to turn off. Alternatively or in addition one of the light fixtures may be paired with a corresponding one of the sensors and the paired light fixture and sensor operate independently of the other light fixtures and sensors .

However timing out the identified light fixtures may be erroneous if one or more of the occupants is still in the lighting area but is just not moving enough to trigger the sensor or be otherwise detected. In general erroneously timing out the light fixtures is undesirable. A false negative is a condition that occurs when any of the light fixtures are timed out and the lighting area illuminated by the light fixtures is determined to still be occupied at the time the light fixtures are timed out.

The probability of the occupant remaining still and undetected over a longer period of time is lower than over a shorter period of time. Thus one way to reduce the chance of the false negative occurring is to simply increase the timeout value. However simply increasing the timeout value may waste electricity because after the occupants leave the lighting area the light fixtures may remain on longer than with a smaller timeout value.

Motion sensors used for occupancy detection may cause false negatives because the occupant may not move for extended periods of time. Whether the motion sensor is an infrared motion detector an ultrasonic motion detector an image recognition sensor a microphone based motion detector or any other type of motion detector there may still be a chance for the occupant to go undetected. Indeed any mechanism of detecting the occupants may be imperfect and consequently may cause false negatives.

As described in more detail below the lighting controller may detect the false negatives. The lighting controller may adjust the timeout value of one or more of the light fixtures based on the false negatives. The lighting controller may balance the goal of keeping the number of false negatives low with the goal of conserving energy.

The lighting controller may detect the false negatives from recorded sensor data obtained from recording the sensor data over a period of time. If one or more of the light fixtures turns off while the occupant is still in the lighting area the occupant may move in response. For example the occupant may wave his or her hands or engage in some other action detectable by the sensors so that the lighting controller turns the light fixtures back on. The movements made in response to the false negative create a unique and detectable signature in the recorded motion data. The lighting controller may detect the unique signature.

The recorded motion data may be stored in a memory of the lighting controller or other memory. The recorded motion data may include one or more motion trips. The motion trip may indicate motion is detected. For example the motion trip may occur when one of the sensors detects motion or when one of the input devices receives user input. The light fixtures may be on or off at the time that the motion is detected. The recorded motion data may be gathered continuously in real time by the lighting controller . Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may receive the recorded motion data in batches or snapshots.

In one example when the lighting controller receives the sensor data the lighting controller may record a timestamp for each motion trip indicated in the sensor data. Alternatively or in addition the timestamps may be included in the sensor data received by the lighting controller . In one example the lighting controller may store the identity of the sensor that caused the motion trip in the recorded sensor data. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may record the identity of a group of the sensors that includes the sensor detecting the motion. For example the lighting controller may record the identity of a group of sensors when movement detected by any sensor in the group of the sensors results in the lighting controller turning on any associated light fixtures .

The timestamps may be ordered sequentially by time. Each one of the timestamps may include a value indicating a point in time. Each one of the timestamps may include a unit of time such as millisecond second minute or clock cycle. Alternatively or in addition each one of the timestamps may be dimensionless. For example the timestamp may include a value of a counter.

The lighting controller may subtract each timestamp from an immediately preceding timestamp in order to determine the duration or period of time between timestamps. Accordingly the lighting controller may determine multiple durations where each respective one of the durations is a time difference between two consecutive motion trips. As described in more detail below the lighting controller may analyze the durations and determine how frequently various durations are found in the recorded sensor data. If the occurrence of motion in a lighting area is random then the time between consecutive motion trips is random. However if the occurrence of motion in the lighting area is caused by a regularly occurring event such as a hand wave every time the light fixtures are timed out then there may be a spike in the frequency of durations just longer than the timeout value of the light fixtures . Thus the lighting controller may identify the false negatives that occurred from a spike in the frequency of durations that are within a specified time range that follows the timeout value.

A spike is visible in the frequency of the durations that are within a few seconds after the timeout value of the light fixtures . For example spikes in the frequency of the durations that follow the three minute timeout value are twelve and twenty two. That is twelve durations are in the time range from three minutes to three minutes and three seconds. Twenty two durations are in the time range from three minutes and three seconds to three minutes and six seconds. Because the recorded sensor data was received over time the number of each of the durations found in the recorded sensor data may be considered the frequency of each of the durations . Alternatively or in addition the frequency of each of the durations may be calculated by dividing the number of each of the durations by the length of time the recorded sensor data is collected.

As described above the motion trips may be caused by any detected movement. Accordingly background motion trips may be caused by movement other than movement made in response to the light fixtures timing out. For example the background motion trips may be caused by shuffling papers typing on a computer leaving a room or any other type of activity unrelated to the light fixtures timing out. Background motion trips may result in durations that are within a predetermined analysis time range. The analysis time range may be a time range that includes the timeout value . For example the analysis time range may begin at 30 seconds before the timeout value and end at 30 seconds after the timeout value . Alternatively or in addition the analysis time range may be some other range of values that includes the timeout value . In the frequency of the durations that are in the analysis time range from two minutes thirty seconds to three minutes thirty seconds averages about five. The durations caused by background motion trips may be considered background noise when detecting the false negatives. The background noise may vary across the durations as is readily apparent in .

The lighting controller when determining the false negatives may account for the background noise. In one example the lighting controller may account for the background noise by subtracting the background noise from peaks in the frequency to determine the false negatives. For example the lighting controller may determine the number of false negatives by subtracting the average frequency of the durations over the analysis time range from the values immediately following the timeout value . Thus the number of the false negatives may be 12 5 22 5 or 24 total false negatives. Alternatively or in addition a more sophisticated curve fitting technique may be used to identify the peak and remove the background noise. Alternatively the lighting controller may not account for the background noise when determining the false negatives.

The lighting controller may apply any suitable mathematical analysis for detecting peaks in the frequencies of the durations to identify whether there are any false negatives and if so determining the false negative rate. The false negative rate may indicate the number of times per unit of time that the light fixture is timed out when the lighting area of the light fixture is determined to be occupied at the time the light fixture times out. In the example illustrated in the lighting controller may determine the false negative rate as the total number of false negatives which is 24 divided by the amount of time that the recorded sensor data is collected. Alternatively or in addition the false negative rate may be the number of false negatives where the unit of time is the amount of time that the sensor data is collected.

There is no guarantee that a spike in the durations immediately after the timeout value is actually due to the occupants responding to the timeout of one or more of the light fixtures . Something else may cause the motion trips in the few seconds after the light fixtures time out. Indeed there is usually background noise at any duration around the timeout value . However given a sufficiently large sample of sensor data movements made in response to the timeout are a likely cause of a spike that rises above the background noise.

The false negative rate provides a basis for an accurate user friendly and tunable approach to optimize motion timeouts. The threshold false negative rate may represent an amount of discomfort that is acceptable to the occupants . The discomfort is in the form of the light fixtures timing out when the lighting area is occupied.

In one example an operator of the control system may enter a threshold false negative rate through the GUI . For example the operator may be an administrator of the lighting system an office occupant or any other person. Accordingly the lighting controller may receive the threshold false negative rate from the GUI . The false negative rate may apply to the whole lighting system . Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may receive one or more threshold false negative rates from the GUI that apply to corresponding subsets of the light fixtures . Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may receive the threshold false negative rate from a user input device such as a potentiometer. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may generate the threshold false negative rate from some other value such as from a worker productivity goal or other management goal.

A management goal may be any aspect to consider in the overall control of lighting at one or more physical sites over time. Examples of management goals for the lighting system include a productivity goal a maintenance goal an aesthetic goal an energy goal and any other objective considered in the control of lighting. The management goals for the lighting system may include the productivity goal the maintenance goal the aesthetic goal and the energy goal. The management goals for the lighting system may include fewer different or additional goals. In a first example the management goals may include just the productivity and the energy goals. In a second example the management goals may include just the productivity goal the aesthetic goal and an operational cost goal.

A goal may include a value a range of values or a set of values. For example the goal may include a maximum value a minimum value ranges of values or any combination thereof. In one example goals may include sub goals.

The lighting controller may control lighting based on the high level management goals. An operator may set management goals such as goals for worker productivity system maintenance energy savings and or aesthetic effect. The lighting controller may include predictive models that translate the management goals into low level device control parameters such as light levels power levels and timeout values for load devices such as the light fixtures . The lighting controller may control the light fixtures with the device control parameters in order to best meet the management goals.

The lighting controller may reduce energy usage by reducing the timeout value as much as possible while keeping the false negative rate under the threshold false negative rate. The lighting controller may increase the timeout value in response to the false negative rate being above the threshold false negative rate. In contrast the lighting controller may decrease the timeout value in response to the false negative rate being below the threshold false negative rate. The lighting controller may keep the existing timeout value if the false negative rate matches the threshold false negative rate.

In one example the lighting controller may start by setting the timeout value to be a small value such as 1 minute for a few days or for any other determined period of time. Then the lighting controller may set the timeout value to be a large value such as 30 minutes for a few days or for any other determined period of time. For both timeout values the lighting controller may process the recorded sensor data and independently determine the false negative rate for each of the timeout values. In general the longer the timeout value the lower the false negative rate.

The lighting controller may fit an equation to two points consisting of the timeout values and the corresponding false negative rates. The lighting controller may interpolate the timeout value that corresponds to the threshold false negative rate from the equation and the two points. The equation used for interpolation may be linear polynomial exponential or some other form that substantially fits the observed data. The lighting controller may set the timeout value to the interpolated timeout value. Using the interpolated timeout value the lighting controller may then receive and record the sensor data and determine the false negative rate that corresponds to the interpolated timeout value.

If the new false negative rate matches the threshold timeout value then the lighting controller may keep the timeout value set to the interpolated timeout value. Alternatively the lighting controller may add a third point which comprises the interpolated timeout value and the corresponding false negative rate to the previously identified two points. The lighting controller may fit a second equation to the three points. The lighting controller may interpolate the timeout value that corresponds to the threshold false negative rate from the second equation and the three points. The process of interpolating the timeout value collecting the sensor data and determining the corresponding false negative rate may repeat continuously. Alternatively the process may repeat until the threshold false negative rate is found.

Because occupant usage of the lighting area may change over time the lighting controller may operate continuously in order to find the best timeout value from the latest recorded sensor data. In one example the older sensor data may be assigned less weight than newer sensor data because the newer sensor data may be more representative of the current occupant usage.

The threshold false negative rate is just one of several possible metrics that the lighting controller may use to determine the timeout value . For example the lighting controller may use an energy usage threshold. The negative consequence of increasing the timeout value is that increasing the timeout value results in the light fixtures consuming more energy. The energy usage threshold may indicate the maximum amount of energy that one or more of the light fixtures are to consume. For example the energy usage threshold may be expressed as a percentage of the amount of energy that the light fixtures consume when lit 24 hours a day seven days a week.

In one example the lighting controller may increase the timeout value in response to the false negative rate being above the threshold false negative rate but not if doing so causes the energy usage threshold to be exceeded. Energy usage of the light fixtures may be determined from the sensor data received from the sensors from energy consumption models or any combination thereof.

In a second example the lighting controller may increase the timeout value in response to the false negative rate being above the threshold false negative rate so long as a marginal decrease in the false negative rate divided by a marginal increase in energy usage falls below a threshold value. The marginal decrease in the false negative rate may be the amount that the false negative rate falls if the timeout values increases by a particular amount. The marginal increase in energy usage may be the amount that the energy usage increases if the timeout value increases by the particular amount.

Knowledge of the spatial orientation of the sensors relative to each other and relative to the lighting areas in the physical space may also enhance detection of the false negatives. Specifically there are types of motion that may cause motion trips to appear to be in response to the light fixtures timing out but the motion trips are instead unrelated to the light fixtures timing out.

The following two types of motions are examples of such motions 1 an occupant enters the lighting area immediately after the light fixtures timed out and 2 an occupant walks next to the lighting area inadvertently tripping a motion sensor in the lighting area. For example the latter passing by type motion may occur when a private office has glass walls separating the office from a hallway and a motion sensor in the private office is tripped by a person passing by the office.

The lighting controller may detect the entering type of motion and the passing by type of motion from the recorded sensor data. The lighting controller may ignore the corresponding motion trips when determining the false negatives. For example the lighting controller may ignore motion trips detected by motion sensors within the lighting area that occur at substantially the same time as motion trips detected by motion sensors immediately adjacent to the lighting area that would be tripped if an occupant were walking into or next to the lighting area. The lighting controller may evaluate each of the motion trips received from the sensors in the lighting area. The lighting controller may determine whether any motion trip received from an adjacent lighting area has a timestamp that is within a predetermined time window of the timestamp of the motion trip received from the sensors in the lighting area. If so then the lighting controller may ignore the motion trip when determining the false negatives. For example the lighting controller may ignore the motion trip when determining the durations between motion trips. Examples of the predetermined time window include three seconds five seconds 10 seconds or any other suitable timeframe.

These motion trips may be included in the background noise described above. Thus accounting for the background noise may account for these two types of motions but less accurately in some configurations.

In one example the lighting controller may include one or more models that detect types of motion and occupancy and adjust the timeout value accordingly. For example one or more of the models may detect the entering type of motion the passing by type of motion and other types of motion. Alternatively or in addition the models may track the locations of the occupants in the physical site . Examples of the models include an architecture model a fixture model an occupancy model a demand model and an adaptive model.

The architecture model may include architectural data for locations such as work spaces work surfaces transit corridors and common areas as well as the location and size of architectural features such as partitions walls doors windows vents and work areas and surfaces. The fixture model may include architectural data about devices in the lighting system such as the location and orientation of the light fixtures the sensors and the input devices . The adaptive model may include a component that identifies patterns over the medium or long term from system operation information such as the sensor data and user input data received from the input devices .

The occupancy model may model occupancy per location in the physical site . Alternatively or in addition the occupancy model may track the locations of the occupants as the occupants move throughout the physical site . For data sensed as events such as motion data in the sensor data and user input received from the input devices the occupancy model may employ conventional and enhanced detection and tracking models to determine the presence and movement of occupants in the physical site .

Modeling may also compensate for sensor deficiencies. For practical reasons motion sensing may be implemented with a sparse network of imprecise sensors. Coverage may be limited both in number and field of view such as coverage of areas hidden by walls doors partitions or other obstructions. Cost effective sensors such as passive infrared PIR sensors may only detect motion as a function of subtended angle and speed of motion. Motion detection itself may be limited in that an event only indicates that motion occurred somewhere in the field of view of the sensor without reporting information about the distance direction or location of the target. Detection sensitivity may be a function of target speed and distance from the sensor . In one example of a motion detector a target that is far away must be larger and move faster and farther than one that is closer to the sensor for the same degree of detection.

The occupancy model may rely on conventional or enhanced target detection and tracking techniques. The occupancy model may integrate and interpret the sensor data from multiple neighboring sensors over space and time. From the sensor data the occupancy model may determine target candidates and an estimate of the dynamic state of the target candidates. The estimate of the dynamic state may be enhanced through models of the targets themselves such as people or animals based on factors such as maximum speed and likely changes in direction. The occupancy model may assign confidence factors to the targets and the states of the targets. Over time with subsequent received sensor data and user input the confidence in the state of the target may be reinforced or eroded. When a threshold is reached in one direction or the other the presence of the target is confirmed or eliminated.

The occupancy model may improve upon the performance of conventional techniques by correlating target proposals with site geometry obtained from the architecture model. The occupants may be constrained to certain locations and types of movement by site geometry. For example the occupants may be unable to walk through walls or may be expected to transit through doors corridors and stairs and to be conveyed by elevators and escalators. Site geometry also facilitates prediction of inter visibility between the sensors and targets. Thus the occupancy model may monitor the timing of both the motion indicated in the sensor data and events indicated in the user input across the data network correlate the timing information with the site architecture and determine the most likely location of the occupants . The occupancy model may also predict the most likely route of the occupants through that location.

The fixture model may supplement the architecture model by modeling the placement of the input devices in the physical site . Unlike motion detectors which are rather imprecise when an input device such as a wall control receives an input the occupancy model may assume with near certainty the presence and location of an occupant in the physical site .

The occupancy model may further improve performance by incorporating occupant usage patterns provided in the patterns and statistics received from the adaptive model. The adaptive model may employ pattern detection and recognition over the medium or long term in order to identify patterns such as occupancy and general movement patterns. For example the adaptive model may learn a schedule of use of the physical site by the occupants based on detected patterns.

Accordingly the occupancy model may receive the sensor data and the user input data determine the spatial relationships between each of the sensors and determine the spatial relationships between the sensors and the light fixtures . Based on the received data and the spatial relationships the occupancy model may distinguish between different types of movement from corresponding motion trip data signatures in the sensors data. For example the occupancy model may detect the entering type of motion and the passing by type of motion.

In addition the occupancy model may determine the false negative rate for the light fixture from the sensor data as described above. For example the occupancy model may detect motion trips and determine the durations between the motions trips.

The demand model may determine an optimum solution for the timeout value from lighting demands determined by the management goals and the other models such as the occupancy model. For example the demand model may adjust the timeout value based on the false negative rate received from the occupancy model and the threshold false negative rate received from the GUI and or derived from the management goals as described above.

A walk through motion may result from the occupant entering and then exiting a lighting area within a predetermined time period of entering. For example the occupant may enter one entrance and exit a second entrance or alternatively the occupant may enter and exit the same entrance. In contrast a walk and stay motion may result from the occupant entering and staying in the lighting area for longer than the predetermined time period after entering. A shorter timeout value may be more appropriate for the walk through motion than for the walk and stay motion. Therefore the lighting controller may adjust the timeout value based on whether the walk through motion or the walk and stay motion is detected. The occupancy model for example may detect and identify the walk through motion and the walk and stay motion from the sensor data. The demand model for example may increase the timeout value if the walk and stay motion is detected but decrease the timeout value if the walk through motion is detected.

As the occupant walks by one of the five sensors the sensor generates a group of motion trips . As the occupant walks by the next one of the five sensors the next sensor generates another group of motion trips and so on until the occupant finishes walking past the last of the five sensors. The groups of motion trips may be staggered in time such that the first motion trip in each consecutive one of the groups of motion trips may be received a short time after the first motion trip in the previous one of the groups of motion trips. Similarly the last motion trip in each consecutive one of the groups of motion trips may be received a short time after the last motion trip in the previous one of the groups of motion trips. The short time delay may depend for example on the distance between the sensors the speed the occupant walks by the sensors and the detection range of each of the sensors .

The lighting controller may detect a walk through type of motion by detecting the set or of motion trips that include the staggered groups of motion trips received from the sensors arranged along the path of the occupant. In contrast the lighting controller may detect a walk and stay type of motion by detecting one or more of the staggered groups of motion trips received from the sensors but not the group of motion trips from all of the sensors arranged in the row. Thus the occupancy model the adaptive model or both may detect the walk through and walk and stay type motions.

The lighting controller may process the sensor data received over a period of time and determine the probability that the sensor data includes one or more of the walk through and walk and stay type motions. Any suitable mathematical analysis may be applied to determine the probability that the sensor data includes the walk through and walk and stay type motions.

In response to detecting the walk through type motion the lighting controller may decrease the timeout value . Alternatively or in addition in response to determining that the number of detected motion trips caused by the walk through type motions exceeds a predetermined percentage of the motions trips detected over a predetermined period of time the lighting controller may decrease the timeout value .

Correspondingly in response to detecting the walk and stay type motion the lighting controller may increase the timeout value . Alternatively or in addition in response to determining that the number of motion trips from the walk and stay type motions exceeds a predetermined percentage of the motions trips detected over a predetermined period of time the lighting controller may increase the timeout value .

In one example alternative default timeout values may be used depending on whether the type of motions in the lighting area are predominately walk through or walk and stay type motions. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may decrease or increase respectively the timeout value that would otherwise be applied for the lighting area. For example lower timeouts values may be more important in lighting areas that are characterized by rapid entry and exit such as breakrooms hallways and restrooms.

The walk through or entry exit pattern may resemble the pattern illustrated in if the sensors are arranged linearly from an entry point to a different exit point. The sensors may not be arranged linearly but may instead be spaced apart in another pattern. Therefore the lighting controller may determine the orientation of the sensors in the lighting area from the fixture model and determine what the walk through and walk and stay motion signatures are for the particular arrangement of the sensors with respect to the lighting area. For example if a room only has one door then the walk through pattern may result in the motion sensor closest to the door being tripped at the beginning and at the end of the walk through pattern and the motion sensor or sensors inside the room being tripped in the middle of the walk through pattern.

A facility manager may choose to optimize the timeout values based on space usage types. For example lower default timeout values may be chosen for rapid entry exit lighting areas while higher default timeout values may be chosen for other types of uses of the lighting areas.

The lighting controller may track the total occupancy of a room based on detection of the certain types of motions. For example the occupancy model may increment an occupancy count for a room when the motion trips indicate an occupant enters the room. Alternatively or in addition the occupancy model may decrement the occupancy count for the room when the motion trips indicate that the occupant exits the room. Whenever the occupancy count becomes zero the lighting controller may turn off the light fixtures in the room substantially reduce the timeout value of the light fixtures in the room or take any other action based on the room being unoccupied.

The lighting controller may adjust the timeout value based on the time period such as time of day day of the week and time of year. The reason is that occupancy patterns may change depending on the time period. For example during a weeknight the timeout value may be set shorter than during the workday because the majority of motion trips may be due to a cleaning crew rapidly going from space to space. Instead of having a singular timeout across all time periods the mechanisms for determining the timeout value described herein may create distinct timeout values and recognition patterns that vary across the time periods.

If there is an identifiable level of clustering in the sensor data the lighting controller may process the motion trips for a particular lighting area and identify clusters by the twin peak and signature described above. In particular the lighting controller may determine the occupancy period of each cluster as illustrated in ultimately arriving at a distribution of occupancy periods for the particular lighting area.

The distribution of occupancy periods for the particular lighting area may provide useful information. For example the adaptive model may process motion trip data over time and determine each discrete occupancy period for the lighting area. Thus the adaptive model may dynamically determine a schedule of when the lighting area is used from the motion trips .

In one example the distribution of occupancy periods may improve detection of exit type motions. The occupancy model may identify the entry spike of a cluster in real time by sensing that a number of the occupants have entered the lighting area. After awhile the occupancy model may detect a series of motion trips that may or may not be the exit spike caused by all the people leaving the conference room. The motion signature recognition may be unclear because for example the motion sensors may not be spatially located in a way that clearly detects an exit event. Nevertheless the occupancy model may determine the occupancy period that elapsed since the entry spike and compare the occupancy period to the historical distribution of occupancy periods received from the adaptive model. If the occupancy period is less than the average historical occupancy period or some other function of the historical occupancy period then the occupancy model may determine that the latest set of motion trips received is unlikely to be the exit spike . The occupancy model may then continue looking for the exit spike in motion trips that are subsequently received in real time. Alternatively if the occupancy period detected in real time is significantly longer than the average historical occupancy period or some other function of the historical occupancy period then the occupancy may determine that the series of motion trips is likely the exit spike . Accordingly the lighting controller may time out the light fixtures immediately after or within a predetermined time delay of detecting the exit spike .

In a second example the distribution of occupancy periods may be used to set the timeout value . The occupancy model may treat the distribution of occupancy periods as an ideal model of occupancy. If the adaptive model identifies the clusters then the lighting area may likely be occupied during the occupancy periods but not at other times. Therefore the occupancy model may model a perfectly functioning motion detection system from the occupancy periods received from the adaptive model. For example the occupancy model may indicate that the lighting area is occupied when the current time is within one of the occupancy periods and indicate that the lighting area is unoccupied when the current time is not in any of the occupancy periods . The lighting controller may turn the light fixtures on when the occupancy model indicates the lighting area is occupied and turn the light fixtures off anytime the occupancy model indicates the lighting area is unoccupied. For example the demand model may turn the light fixtures on when the current time falls in one of the clusters and turn the light fixtures off when the current time is anytime outside of the clusters. Alternatively or in addition the demand model may use a short timeout value for the light fixtures when the current time is anytime outside of the clusters.

Another use for the distribution of occupancy periods is in modeling how much energy may be reduced if the motion sensors were to detect occupancy without error. Ideal energy use may be determined by multiplying the occupancy periods in the occupancy schedule by a known power consumption rate of the light fixtures . The ideal energy use may be compared to an amount of energy consumed by the light fixtures in a configuration where motion detection worked imperfectly resulting in false negatives.

Alternatively or in addition the occupancy model may determine the distribution of occupancy periods for a lighting area from information received from a calendaring system such as a MICROSOFT EXCHANGE SERVER which is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation Redmond Wash. or any other system that stores calendar information such as meeting times. For example the lighting controller may communicate with the calendaring system over the data network or any other communications network. For example the lighting controller may determine that a meeting is scheduled for a particular time period at a location that includes or is included in the lighting area. The lighting controller may determine that the time period of the scheduled meeting is one of the occupancy periods for the lighting area. The lighting controller may receive meeting information using a messaging protocol such as Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Google Calendar Data API application programming interface CaIDAV or any other protocol for receiving or exchanging calendar information.

The lighting controller may detect unusual situations and rapidly adjust the timeout value in response. For example the lighting controller may receive the occupancy schedule from the adaptive model as described above. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may receive the occupancy schedule from the GUI .

The lighting controller may use a shorter timeout value for times when the lighting area is unoccupied according to the occupancy schedule than for times when the occupancy schedule indicates the lighting area is occupied. For example the lighting controller may shorten the timeout value currently in use for the lighting area at night if the lighting area is not scheduled to be in use. Light and temporary usage from cleaning crews and security moving quickly through the lighting area may do so when the lighting area is scheduled not to be in use. The shortened timeout value may not be an issue for the light and temporary usage.

However the shortened timeout value may be an issue for unscheduled continuous use of the lighting area. For example an employee might be working later than usual one night. The employee might be uncomfortable with the shortened timeout value of for example 30 seconds instead of the usual timeout value of for example 5 minutes. The employee may have the impression that the light fixtures are constantly being turned off while the employee is working late if the shortened timeout value is used.

In one example the employee may have full individual policy control over timeout value and the occupancy scheduling through the GUI . However the employee may set the timeout value at night or unscheduled usage time to the same value as the timeout value at the daytime or schedule usage time because the employee prefers the longer timeout value . The employee may have little or no incentive to use a shorter timeout value for some time periods because the shorter timeout may be a potential annoyance to the employee.

In a second example the administrator of the lighting system may set the timeout values for scheduled and unscheduled usage times. Alternatively or in addition the administrator of the lighting system may set a maximum threshold for the timeout value that other users such as the employee may not exceed. The GUI may include an override button that allows a user to override the timeout value for a predetermined amount of time such as for the remainder of the day.

In a third example the lighting controller may learn an optimal timeout value for a particular segment of time during the unscheduled usage by identifying false negatives in the motion trips . However the lighting controller may collect the motion trip data over a long period of time thus making it difficult to respond quickly to an unusual usage situation. Because the lighting controller is attempting to address an atypical situation acting on data collected in real time may improve the effectiveness of identifying the optimal timeout value.

In a fourth example the lighting controller may analyze the motion trips collected in real time. The lighting controller may determine whether an atypical situation signature appears in the motion trips . For example the lighting controller may detect an atypical situation if over a predetermined time span during the unscheduled usage time such as over a 30 minute time span at night the lighting controller identifies an unusually large number of false negatives relative to other predetermined time spans. The lighting controller may take aggressive action to increase the timeout value for the next X hours or for some other predetermined amount of time. In order to determine what constitutes an unusually large number of false negatives the lighting controller may record the motion trips for extended periods of time such as days or weeks. The aggressive action may include increasing the timeout value by a predetermined increment for each false negative that is detected during the unscheduled usage time. Alternatively or in addition the aggressive action may include increasing the timeout value to a very large value such as 30 minutes in response to the first false negative detected during the unscheduled usage time. Any other suitable mechanism that uses real time data as the basis for setting the time out value and that prioritizes the reduction of false negatives over energy savings may be used.

In a fifth example the lighting controller may make no distinction between typical and atypical data by adjusting the timeout value based on the sensor data collected in the last few minutes or over some other relatively short period of time. For example the lighting controller may calculate a moving average of the false negative rate based on the sensor data received recently such as within the last ten minutes. Thus the moving average of the false negative rate puts more weight on recently received sensor data. Alternatively or in addition the lighting controller may determine the false negative rate using any other suitable mechanism for weighting recently received sensor data more than sensor data received less recently. If the lighting controller determines that false negatives occurred in the last few minutes then the lighting controller determines whether the number of false negatives in that period of time is acceptable or unacceptable and adjusts the timeout value accordingly. For example the lighting controller may determine that the frequency of the false negatives is acceptable if the frequency of the false negatives is less than the threshold false negative rate. Accordingly the lighting controller may adjust the timeout value in view of both the sensor data collected over days or weeks that may identify historical trends and the recently collected sensor data that may identify the atypical situation.

As described above the lighting controller may adjust the timeout value based on the energy usage threshold. The energy usage threshold may indicate the maximum amount of energy that one or more of the light fixtures are to consume. Therefore it may be desirable to determine the amount of energy that the light fixtures would consume if the timeout value were increased. As explained below the lighting controller may determine the amount of energy that the light fixtures would consume based on the timestamps of the motion trips collected over a period of time.

The cost of increasing the timeout value is wasted energy use by light fixtures that are turned on when the lighting area is actually unoccupied. Determining the wasted energy per increase in timeout may be useful for a facility manager who desires to weigh this cost against occupant discomfort such as the light fixtures turning off while the occupant is present due to imperfect sensing.

The lighting controller may record the motion trips for an extended period of time such as for one week using the smallest timeout value timeout value A that may likely be selected for the lighting area. The lighting controller may determine from the recorded motion trips what the relative energy usage would be if a larger timeout value timeout value B were used instead during the same period of time that the recorded motion trips were collected.

Similarly the lighting controller may determine the total amount of time that the light fixtures may be on when timeout value B is selected. For each timestamp in the recorded motion trips the lighting controller may determine a time block having a start time and an end time. For each time block the start time may be the timestamp corresponding to the motion trip. For each time block the end time may be the sum of the corresponding timestamp and timeout value B. The lighting controller may find the union of all of the time blocks for timeout value B. The total duration of the union all of the time blocks for timeout value B may be Duration B. Duration B represents the amount of time that the light fixtures are on when timeout value B is used.

Under most energy consumption models the amount of energy consumed by the light fixtures is proportional to the amount of time that the light fixtures are on. Accordingly the ratio of Duration A to Duration B may be equal to the ratio of the amount of energy consumed using timeout value A to the amount of energy consumed using timeout value B. Therefore if the lighting controller determines the amount of energy consumed using timeout value A then the lighting controller may determine the amount of energy that would be consumed using timeout value B.

Accordingly the lighting controller may use the technique to determine a new timeout value that would result in one or more of the light fixtures consuming energy substantially equal to the energy usage threshold. The lighting controller may determine whether the new timeout value satisfies the threshold false negative rate as described above in an earlier section.

The supporting entities may include additional fewer or different components. For example the supporting entities may include multiple light fixtures where each one of the light fixtures includes one or more lamps such as the lamp .

The lighting controller may include a processor a memory and a power device . The lighting controller may include additional fewer or different components. For example the lighting controller may include a display device. In a second example the lighting controller may not include the power device and instead communicate with a physically discrete power device that is in a different physical package than the lighting controller .

The power device may be any device or combination of devices that powers one or more load devices such as the lamp or the light fixtures . In one example the power device may both power and communicate with the load devices. In a second example the power device may power the load devices while the lighting controller communicates with the load devices and the power device . In a third example the lighting controller may include the power device . In a fourth example the lighting controller may be in communication with the power device where the two are separate devices. In a fifth example the power device may be a switch such as solid state relay or a mechanical relay switch.

The memory may hold the programs and processes that implement the logic described above for execution by the processor . As examples the memory may store program logic that implements components of the lighting controller such as the occupancy model the architecture model the adaptive model the fixture model and the demand model or any other logic component of the lighting controller . The components of the lighting controller when executed by the processor may perform the features of the lighting controller described herein. The memory may include data structures and values such as the sensor data the durations the motion trips the frequency of durations the distribution of occupancy periods the false negative rate the timeout value the threshold false negative rate the occupancy count any other values. For example the sensor data may include the timestamps corresponding to when the sensor data was sensed or when the sensor data was received by the lighting controller .

The systems and may be implemented in many different ways. For example although some features are shown stored in computer readable memories e.g. as logic implemented as computer executable instructions or as data structures in memory all or part of the system and its logic and data structures may be stored on distributed across or read from other machine readable media. The media may include hard disks floppy disks CD ROMs a signal such as a signal received from a network or received over multiple packets communicated across the network. Alternatively or in addition any of the logic components such as the occupancy model or any other module may be implemented as a discrete circuit or as logic in an FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC .

The systems and may be implemented with additional different or fewer entities. As one example the processor may be implemented as a microprocessor a microcontroller a DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other types of circuits or logic. As another example the memory may include non volatile and or volatile memory such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM flash memory any other type of memory now known or later discovered or any combination thereof. The memory may include an optical magnetic hard drive or any other form of data storage device.

The processing capability of the systems and may be distributed among multiple entities such as among multiple processors and memories optionally including multiple distributed processing systems. Parameters databases and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database may be logically and physically organized in many different ways and may be implemented with different types of data structures such as linked lists hash tables or implicit storage mechanisms. Logic such as programs or circuitry may be combined or split among multiple programs distributed across several memories and processors and may be implemented in a library such as a shared library e.g. a dynamic link library DLL . The DLL for example may store code that determines the distribution of the occupancy periods . As another example the DLL may itself provide all or some of the functionality of the systems and .

The processor may be in communication with the memory one or more of the sensors and the power device . In one example the processor may also be in communication with additional elements such as a display. The processor may include a general processor central processing unit server application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor field programmable gate array FPGA digital circuit analog circuit any other hardware that executes logic or any combination thereof.

For example the processor may include one or more devices operable to execute computer executable instructions or computer code embodied in the memory or in other memory to perform the features of the lighting controller . The computer code may include instructions executable with the processor . The computer code may include embedded logic. The computer code may be written in any computer language now known or later discovered such as hardware description language HDL C C Java Pascal Visual Basic Perl HyperText Markup Language HTML JavaScript assembly language shell script or any combination thereof. The computer code may include source code and or compiled code.

The false negative rate for the lamp may be determined from sensor data where the false negative rate is a frequency at which the lamp is timed out when the lighting area is occupied . The false negative rate may be determined using any number of mechanisms.

A determination may be made whether the false negative rate is greater than the threshold false negative rate . If the false negative rate is greater than the threshold false negative rate then the timeout value of the lamp may be increased .

Alternatively a determination may be made whether the false negative rate is less than the threshold false negative rate . If the false negative rate is less than the threshold false negative rate then the timeout value of the lamp may be decreased in response .

In one example the operations may end if the false negative rate is increased or decreased in response to the false negative rate being less than or greater than the threshold false negative rate . The operations may end if the false negative rate equals the threshold false negative rate . Alternatively or in addition the operations may continue indefinitely by returning to determine the false negative rate again instead of ending. Additional sensor data may be received and used to determine the false negative rate again.

All of the discussion regardless of the particular implementation described is exemplary in nature rather than limiting. For example although selected aspects features or components of the implementations are depicted as being stored in memories all or part of systems and methods consistent with the innovations may be stored on distributed across or read from other computer readable storage media for example secondary storage devices such as hard disks floppy disks and CD ROMs or other forms of ROM or RAM either currently known or later developed. The computer readable storage media may be non transitory computer readable media which includes CD ROMs volatile or non volatile memory such as ROM and RAM or any other suitable storage device. Moreover the various modules and screen display functionality is but one example of such functionality and any other configurations encompassing similar functionality are possible. For example references to the light fixtures may also be understood to apply to one or more lamps within the light fixtures . For example the lighting controller may adjust the timeout value of the lamp instead of or in addition to the timeout value of the light fixture that includes the lamp .

Furthermore although specific components of innovations were described methods systems and articles of manufacture consistent with the innovation may include additional or different components. For example a processor may be implemented as a microprocessor microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC discrete logic or a combination of other type of circuits or logic. Similarly memories may be DRAM SRAM Flash or any other type of memory. Flags data databases tables entities and other data structures may be separately stored and managed may be incorporated into a single memory or database may be distributed or may be logically and physically organized in many different ways. The components may operate independently or be part of a same program. The components may be resident on separate hardware such as separate removable circuit boards or share common hardware such as a same memory and processor for implementing instructions from the memory. Programs may be parts of a single program separate programs or distributed across several memories and processors.

The respective logic software or instructions for implementing the processes methods and or techniques discussed above may be provided on computer readable media or memories or other tangible media such as a cache buffer RAM removable media hard drive other computer readable storage media or any other tangible media or any combination thereof. The tangible media include various types of volatile and nonvolatile storage media. The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein may be executed in response to one or more sets of logic or instructions stored in or on computer readable media. The functions acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firmware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like. In one embodiment the instructions are stored on a removable media device for reading by local or remote systems. In other embodiments the logic or instructions are stored in a remote location for transfer through a computer network or over telephone lines. In yet other embodiments the logic or instructions are stored within a given computer central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU or system.

While various embodiments of the innovation have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the innovation. Accordingly the innovation is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

