---

title: Trusted network transfer of content using off network input code
abstract: Systems and methods for use in connection with the trusted transmission and reception of content, such as encryption key information, from one computing device in a network to a second computing device are provided. In one embodiment, the invention provides a way to trust or validate the transfer of a public key using a very short code entered out of band of the network that is easy for end-users to remember, or write down.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08473612&OS=08473612&RS=08473612
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08473612
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100126
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 888 132 filed Jul. 9 2004 entitled Trusted Network Transfer of Content Using Off Network Input Code which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 520 492 filed Nov. 14 2003 entitled Trusted Network Key Transfer Using Simple User Entered Code the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document may contain material that is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent files or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever. The following notice shall apply to this document Copyright 2003 Microsoft Corp.

This invention relates to the trusted transfer of content such as a credential from one computing device to a second computing device in a network using a simple user entered code. More particularly the invention relates to the trusted transmission and reception of content such as encryption key information from one computing device in a network to another computing device using a simple code entered out of band of the network content exchange.

There are many reasons why it may be desirable for a first computing device to receive a credential a resource code or other content from a second computing device and or for the second computing device to distribute or transmit the credential resource code etc. to the first computing device and vice versa. For instance in order to give access to resource s of the first computing device to the second computing device it is frequently desirable to have the first computing device trust something about the second computing device e.g. for security and or privacy reasons. Such a credential can be distributed between two computing devices in any computing environment e.g. network architectures that include peer to peer clients distributed computing systems thin client architectures where application processing occurs mainly on a central server but can be distributed as well.

As illustrated in the world of computing devices and types of content that may be requested from various other computing devices is quite diverse both in terms of media devices and media types. For exemplary purposes only illustrates that there are many kinds of media such as music MP3s WMVs etc. streaming audio video photos JPEGS GIFs etc. movie files MOVs MPEG etc. advertisements broadcast media Radio TV Cable etc. graphics data etc. also illustrates that there are a variety of devices that render media in some fashion for some purpose. These devices include but are not limited to televisions radios tuners DVD players VCRs DVRs digital media rendering devices set top boxes MP3 players Smart Display devices laptops gaming machines remote control devices cell phones PDAs digital picture frames etc. Given the disparate number of devices and locations where digital content may be stored establishing trust automatically among any two devices with simplicity in such a system is thus an important problem in order to enable sharing of content or resources among a variety of computing devices in what becomes an established trust enclave of devices. It is thus desirable to have a generic and simple mechanism or framework for trusting the content of an exchange between a first device and a second device or vice versa.

For another example of when trust is desirable in a computing system as between a plurality of computing devices a common method to securely transfer information securely between one place and another on a network is by using public private key cryptography. If one machine obtains a public key and another machine has the matching private key the first machine can encrypt secret information using the public key and trust that only a machine holding that matching private key will be able to decrypt it. Without a trusted transfer of the public key from one place in the network to another place however there is no way to ensure that a malicious machine sitting on the network did not intercept the intended public key during its transmission and replace it with its own.

Thus building trust into the exchange of the public key or any content via a simple mechanism or method is desired. It would be further desirable to be able transmit any content such as a public key from one place to another over a network in a way that can be trusted so that the second machine knows for sure that the content that it is receiving in fact came from the real first machine. In addition it would be desirable to have systems application programming interfaces code implementations user interfaces and protocols for achieving the above described objectives to obtain the trusted results.

In consideration of the above identified shortcomings of the art for use in connection with establishing trust for content delivered to a first device from a second device the present invention provides systems and methods for use in connection with the trusted transmission and reception of content such as encryption key information from one computing device in the network to a second computing device or vice versa. In one embodiment the invention provides a way to trust a public key on a network using a very short code displayed on one machine and entered out of band on the second machine wherein the code is easy for end users to remember. Accordingly a user can receive a simple code at the first machine and enter the simple code out of band at the second machine without difficulty thereby establishing implicit trust in the ensuing content exchange which may include the transmission of a trusted public key. The trust established by the techniques of the invention includes both a trust by the first computing device that the second computing device is the appropriate target for the delivery of content from the first computing device and b trust by the second computing device that the first computing device is a trusted source for the content.

As an example of when a second computing device may wish to receive a content in a trusted manner from a first computing device recent improvements in the way consumers interact with their computers include the introduction of a broad ecosystem of networked devices that deliver entertainment experiences such as TV music videos photographs DVD s etc throughout the home on a variety of devices such as electronic home remote media devices digital media rendering devices DVRs set top boxes Smart Displays xBoxes pocket PCs portable DVD devices and the like . Before such content can be delivered to a requesting computing device however trust must be established between the requesting device and the device with the content. For instance receiving the public key from one of the devices assuming it may be trusted as coming from the appropriate source and targeted for the appropriate destination is valuable for ensuring that subsequent exchanges of media between the devices are not exposed on the network when being delivered because they may be encrypted accordingly. Thus in one non limiting embodiment the invention provides a generic framework for automatically transmitting content such as a public key to another device in a simple trusted manner.

One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that the invention can be implemented in connection with any computer or other client or server device which can be deployed as part of a computer network or in a distributed computing environment. In this regard the present invention pertains to any computer system or environment having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes which may be used in connection with establishing trusted communications in accordance with the present invention. The present invention may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment or distributed computing environment having remote or local storage. The present invention may also be applied to standalone computing devices having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities for generating receiving and transmitting information in connection with remote or local services. With network sources for digital media proliferating more than ever the invention is particularly relevant to those computing devices operating in a network or distributed computing environment and thus the techniques for establishing trust for the delivery of content in accordance with the present invention can be applied with great efficacy in those environments.

Distributed computing provides sharing of computer resources and services by exchange between computing devices and systems. These resources and services include the exchange of information cache storage and disk storage for files. Distributed computing takes advantage of network connectivity allowing clients to leverage their collective power and storage to benefit the entire enterprise. In this regard a variety of devices may have applications objects or resources that may implicate an ancillary desire for trusted communications as may be established in accordance with the invention.

It can also be appreciated that an object such as may be hosted on another computing device etc. or etc. Thus although the physical environment depicted may show the connected devices as computers such illustration is merely exemplary and the physical environment may alternatively be depicted or described comprising various digital devices such as PDAs televisions MP3 players etc. software objects such as interfaces COM objects or any device that may be utilized in connection with a media experience.

There are a variety of systems components and network configurations that support distributed computing environments. For example computing systems may be connected together by wired or wireless systems by local networks or widely distributed networks. Currently many of the networks are coupled to the Internet which provides an infrastructure for widely distributed computing and encompasses many different networks. Any of the infrastructures may be used for exemplary communications made incident to the distribution of credential s according to the present invention.

In home networking environments there are at least four disparate network transport media that may each support a unique protocol such as Power line data both wireless and wired voice e.g. telephone and entertainment media. Most home control devices such as light switches and appliances may use power lines for connectivity. Data Services may enter the home as broadband e.g. either DSL or Cable modem and are accessible within the home using either wireless e.g. HomeRF or 802.11B or wired e.g. Home PNA Cat 5 Ethernet even power line connectivity. Voice traffic may enter the home either as wired e.g. Cat 3 or wireless e.g. cell phones and may be distributed within the home using Cat 3 wiring. Entertainment media or other graphical data may enter the home either through satellite or cable and is typically distributed in the home using coaxial cable. IEEE 1394 and DVI are also digital interconnects for clusters of media devices. All of these network environments and others that may emerge as protocol standards may be interconnected to form a network such as an intranet that may be connected to the outside world by way of the Internet. In short a variety of disparate sources exist for the storage and transmission of data and consequently moving forward computing devices will require ways of sharing data such as data accessed or utilized incident to program objects which request or make use of the processes for establishing trust among computing devices in accordance with the present invention.

The Internet commonly refers to the collection of networks and gateways that utilize the TCP IP suite of protocols which are well known in the art of computer networking TCP IP is an acronym for Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol. The Internet can be described as a system of geographically distributed remote computer networks interconnected by computers executing networking protocols that allow users to interact and share information over the network s . Because of such wide spread information sharing remote networks such as the Internet have thus far generally evolved into an open system for which developers can design software applications for performing specialized operations or services essentially without restriction.

Thus the network infrastructure enables a host of network topologies such as client server peer to peer or hybrid architectures. The client is a member of a class or group that uses the services of another class or group to which it is not related. Thus in computing a client is a process i.e. roughly a set of instructions or tasks that requests a service provided by another program. The client process utilizes the requested service without having to know any working details about the other program or the service itself. In a client server architecture particularly a networked system a client is usually a computer that accesses shared network resources provided by another computer e.g. a server. In the example of computers etc. can be thought of as clients and computers etc. can be thought of as the server where server etc. maintains the data that is then replicated in the client computers etc. although any computer can be considered a client a server or both depending on the circumstances. For instance computer may be a Media Center Edition MCE host PC and computing devices etc. may be remote media consumption devices. Any of these computing devices may be processing data or requesting services or tasks that may implicate a trusted content exchange in accordance with the invention.

A server is typically a remote computer system accessible over a remote or local network such as the Internet. The client process may be active in a first computer system and the server process may be active in a second computer system communicating with one another over a communications medium thus providing distributed functionality and allowing multiple clients to take advantage of the information gathering capabilities of the server. Any software objects utilized pursuant to the techniques of the invention may be distributed across multiple computing devices or objects.

Client s and server s communicate with one another utilizing the functionality provided by protocol layer s . For example HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP is a common protocol that is used in conjunction with the World Wide Web WWW or the Web. For instance Remote Desktop Protocol RDP is a common protocol utilized for remote computing. Typically a computer network address such as an Internet Protocol IP address or other reference such as a Universal Resource Locator URL can be used to identify the server or client computers to each other. The network address can be referred to as a URL address. Communication can be provided over a communications medium e.g. client s and server s may be coupled to one another via TCP IP connection s for high capacity communication.

Thus illustrates an exemplary networked or distributed environment with a server in communication with client computers via a network bus in which the present invention may be employed. In more detail a number of servers etc. are interconnected via a communications network bus which may be a LAN WAN intranet the Internet etc. with a number of client or remote computing devices etc. such as a portable computer handheld computer thin client networked appliance or other device such as a VCR TV oven light heater and the like in accordance with the present invention. It is thus contemplated that the present invention may apply to any computing device with unique media abilities when it comes to storage user interface rendering etc.

In a network environment in which the communications network bus is the Internet for example the servers etc. can be Web servers with which the clients etc. communicate via any of a number of known protocols such as HTTP. Servers etc. may also serve as clients etc. as may be characteristic of a distributed computing environment.

Communications may be wired or wireless where appropriate. Client devices etc. may or may not communicate via communications network bus and may have independent communications associated therewith. For example in the case of a TV or VCR there may or may not be a networked aspect to the control thereof. Each client computer etc. and server computer etc. may be equipped with various application program modules or objects and with connections or access to various types of storage elements or objects across which files or data streams may be stored or to which portion s of files or data streams may be downloaded transmitted or migrated. Any one or more of computers etc. may be responsible for the maintenance and updating of a database or other storage element such as a database or memory for storing data processed according to the invention. Thus the present invention can be utilized in a computer network environment having client computers etc. that can access and interact with a computer network bus and server computers etc. that may interact with client computers etc. and other like devices and databases .

Although not required the invention can be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the delivery or receipt of a trusted credential such as a public key in accordance with the invention. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols. Other well known computing systems environments and or configurations that may be suitable for use with the invention include but are not limited to personal computers PCs automated teller machines server computers hand held or laptop devices multi processor systems microprocessor based systems programmable consumer electronics network PCs appliances lights environmental control elements minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network bus or other data transmission medium. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices and client nodes may in turn behave as server nodes.

With reference to another exemplary system for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus .

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer . Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disk drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media a magnetic disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disk and an optical disk drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards digital versatile disks digital video tape solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A graphics interface such as Northbridge may also be connected to the system bus . Northbridge is a chipset that communicates with the CPU or host processing unit and assumes responsibility for accelerated graphics port AGP communications. One or more graphics processing units GPUs may communicate with graphics interface . In this regard GPUs generally include on chip memory storage such as register storage and GPUs communicate with a video memory wherein the application variables of the invention may have impact. GPUs however are but one example of a coprocessor and thus a variety of coprocessing devices may be included in computer and may include a variety of procedural shaders such as pixel and vertex shaders. A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface which may in turn communicate with video memory . In addition to monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used.

Although not required the invention can partly be implemented via an operating system for use by a developer of services for a device or object and or included within application software that operates in connection with the component s of the invention. Software may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by one or more computers such as client workstations servers or other devices. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations and protocols.

With reference to a second exemplary device for implementing the invention includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. As discussed above computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by computer . The system memory may include computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as read only memory ROM and or random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up may be stored in memory . Memory typically also contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation memory may also include an operating system application programs other program modules and program data.

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media which may be connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as an interface and a magnetic disk drive or optical disk drive is typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as an interface.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through a variety of input devices. A graphics subsystem may also be connected to the system bus . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as output interface which may in turn communicate with video memory. In addition to a monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and a printer which may be connected through output interface

The computer may operate in a networked or distributed environment using logical connections to one or more other remote computers such as remote computer which may in turn have media capabilities different from device . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node or any other remote media consumption or transmission device and may include any or all of the elements described above relative to the computer . The logical connections depicted in include a network such local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks buses. Such networking environments are commonplace in homes offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

Various distributed computing frameworks have been and are being developed in light of the convergence of personal computing and the Internet. Individuals and business users alike are provided with a seamlessly interoperable and Web enabled interface for applications and computing devices making computing activities increasingly Web browser or network oriented.

For example MICROSOFT s managed code platform i.e. .NET includes servers building block services such as Web based data storage and downloadable device software. Generally speaking the .NET platform provides 1 the ability to make the entire range of computing devices work together and to have user information automatically updated and synchronized on all of them 2 increased interactive capability for Web pages enabled by greater use of XML rather than HTML 3 online services that feature customized access and delivery of products and services to the user from a central starting point for the management of various applications such as e mail for example or software such as Office .NET 4 centralized data storage which increases efficiency and ease of access to information as well as synchronization of information among users and devices 5 the ability to integrate various communications media such as e mail faxes and telephones 6 for developers the ability to create reusable modules thereby increasing productivity and reducing the number of programming errors and 7 many other cross platform and language integration features as well.

While some exemplary embodiments herein are described in connection with software residing on a computing device one or more portions of the invention may also be implemented via an operating system application programming interface API or a middle man object a control object hardware firmware intermediate language instructions or objects etc. such that the methods of the invention may be included in supported in or accessed via all of the languages and services enabled by managed code such as .NET code and in other distributed computing frameworks as well.

As mentioned the present invention provides systems and methods for use in connection with the trusted transmission and reception of content such as encryption key information from one computing device in the network to a second computing device. In one embodiment the invention provides a way to transfer the public key using a very short code that is much easier for end users to remember or write down which is output from the first device and input to the second device out of band.

Establishing trust in a robust and secure way usually relies on protection against computationally intense brute force attacks. For an end user this translates into the user being required to write down or in some other way interact with a very long number or alpha numeric value e.g. a product code or some other value that is immune from a brute force attack on its value that is the value is made very big by design so that it is difficult for an attacker to discover via a dictionary attack try all possibilities and guess it . The invention thus enables a mechanism to establish trust in a way that is very user friendly by eliminating brute force attacks while at the same time the user only has to deal with a very short value because the attacker only gets one attempt to guess it. Thus the code of the invention need only be long enough to reduce the likelihood that an attacker will gain access with a single guess. In this respect the invention achieves a balance between security and privacy on the one hand ensuring that no one could ever gain access or pose as a legitimate device in such a system and user experience simplicity of the code reduction of burden on the user remembering and inputting the code .

Thus in an exemplary process in accordance with the invention machine is attempting to transfer content such as its public key to machine and machine needs to know to trust that the key it receives definitely comes from machine . In accordance with one embodiment of the invention the user is shown a short code on a display by machine which the user writes down or remembers and then the user physically goes to machine and enters in that code. After this is done the two machines perform a few brief exchanges over the network which first locks the public key to be exchanged to the short code then actually transfers the public key. If a problem arises at any stage in the communication the entire process is effectively or completely aborted the short code is thrown away and or the public private key pair is invalidated for future use. While the user may remember the code and input the code to machine the invention advantageously recognizes that any out of band transport of the code initiated by the user achieves the same effect. For instance a user could initiate a separate modem transfer of the code or place a USB memory stick in the first device receive the code and then place the USB memory stick in the second device and thereby input the code to the second device.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention are illustrated further with reference to . In a first computing device C is to deliver content such as a public key to a second computing device over a network connection in a manner such that the second computing device C trusts that the content comes from the first computing device C. In Step A a trusted code TC is displayed via a user interface such as a display D or otherwise provided to the user by the first computing device C. Off the network the user enters the code TC into the second computing device via well known input means such as a keyboard mouse user interface etc. At step B an exchange is made between the first and second computing devices on the network which is based on code TC. At step C based on the exchange a determination is made whether the first computing device C can be trusted and if so the content such as a public key is transmitted. It can be appreciated that the above described process can work from the second computing device C to the first computing device C as well and also operates to establish bi directional trust in connection with the content exchange right delivery device and right recipient device .

At a determination is made by the first computing device C whether or not user entered code has a pre defined relationship to e.g. matches or is similar enough to the code TC generated by the first computing device C. If not an error code or the like is displayed at and the user can try again. If the codes possess the pre defined relationship e.g. match i.e. the algorithm associated with determines that the user entered code is the same as the code TC generated by first computing device C then the flow proceeds to whereby the communication is trusted and the content e.g. public key is sent to the second computing device C. Once the content is received by the second computing device C the hash based on the trusted code and the content is re computed and compared to the hash remembered at . At if the two hashes match according to the matching algorithms the content e.g. public key from the first computing device C can thus be trusted by the second computing device C at in accordance with the invention. Moreover due to the two sided matching of information the first computing device C can trust that the second computing device C is the right target for the delivery of the content.

It should also be appreciated that the invention performs the above described authentication communications between devices on a network set up for data exchange between the devices and that a unique aspect of the present invention is the initial transport of the trust code from the first device to the second device occurs off the network out of band . There are a variety of ways to transport a code from one computing device to a second computing device or vice versa. As mentioned one way is described above wherein the user reads and remembers or potentially writes down a trust code from the first device and enters the code into the second device. Another simple way would be to plug or insert a memory device such as a USB memory device or memory stick or CD RW or DVD RW into both the first and second computing device to both receive and deliver the trust code off the network. Another way would be to use a phone line mobile network or other connection between the devices which provides an alternate delivery mechanism which is off the network for the authentication exchange.

As mentioned an advantage of the invention is that the trust code TC is easy to remember for the out of band transport from one device to another. In one non limiting embodiment the Trust Code is an N digit number e.g. 4 digits that is randomly generated each time it is created. The 4 digit Trust Code is combined with the 3 digit AffCode computed form the MAC address . . . always the same for a given device then a one digit check digit is computed and added to the end. These numbers create an 8 digit Security Code . In a non limiting embodiment the algorithm used to generate the check digit is borrowed from standards applied to universal price code UPC symbols.

For instance what follows is an example of how to generate a complete 8 digit code 1 Combine the 4 digit Trust Code and the 3 digit AffCode to form a 7 digit number 2 Add the 1st 3rd 5th and 7th digits together then multiply the sum by 3 3 Add the 2nd 4th and 6th digits together 4 Add the result from 2 to the result from 3 and subtract this from the next multiple of 10 and 5 the result of the subtraction is the check digit which becomes the 8th digit of the code if the sum of 2 and 3 is already a multiple of 10 then the check digit is zero . Exemplary math follows 

In accordance with the above procedure to allow some minimal error in input there is built in a kind of fuzzy logic which enables the end user to input the code out of band partially incorrectly but still be validated nonetheless.

There are multiple ways of implementing the present invention e.g. an appropriate API tool kit driver code operating system control standalone or downloadable software object etc. which enables applications and services to use trust mechanism of the invention. The invention contemplates the use of the invention from the standpoint of an API or other software object as well as from a software or hardware object that receives or transmits media capabilities via the mechanism of the invention. Thus various implementations of the invention described herein may have aspects that are wholly in hardware partly in hardware and partly in software as well as in software.

As mentioned above while exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been described in connection with various computing devices and network architectures the underlying concepts may be applied to any computing device or system in which it is desirable to trust content from a first computing device by another computing device. For instance the algorithm s and hardware implementations of the invention may be applied to the operating system of a computing device provided as a separate object on the device as part of another object as a reusable control as a downloadable object from a server as a middle man between a device or object and the network as a distributed object as hardware in memory a combination of any of the foregoing etc. While exemplary programming languages names and examples are chosen herein as representative of various choices these languages names and examples are not intended to be limiting. One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that there are numerous ways of providing object code and nomenclature that achieves the same similar or equivalent functionality achieved by the various embodiments of the invention.

As mentioned the various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus of the present invention or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device generally includes a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the media capabilities mechanism s of the present invention e.g. through the use of a data processing API reusable controls or the like are preferably implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The methods and apparatus of the present invention may also be practiced via communications embodied in the form of program code that is transmitted over some transmission medium such as over electrical wiring or cabling through fiber optics or via any other form of transmission wherein when the program code is received and loaded into and executed by a machine such as an EPROM a gate array a programmable logic device PLD a client computer etc. the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the invention. When implemented on a general purpose processor the program code combines with the processor to provide a unique apparatus that operates to invoke the functionality of the present invention. Additionally any storage techniques used in connection with the present invention may invariably be a combination of hardware and software.

While the present invention has been described in connection with the preferred embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments may be used or modifications and additions may be made to the described embodiment for performing the same function of the present invention without deviating therefrom. For example while exemplary network environments of the invention are described in the context of a networked environment such as a peer to peer or distributed networked environment one skilled in the art will recognize that the present invention is not limited thereto and that the methods as described in the present application may apply to any computing device or environment such as a gaming console handheld computer portable computer etc. whether wired or wireless and may be applied to any number of such computing devices connected via a communications network and interacting across the network. Furthermore it should be emphasized that a variety of computer platforms including handheld device operating systems and other application specific operating systems are contemplated especially as the number of wireless networked devices continues to proliferate.

While exemplary embodiments refer to utilizing the present invention in the context of particular protocols and communications the invention is not so limited but rather any protocol may be implemented to provide a general framework for establishing trusted exchange of content in accordance with the invention. Still further the present invention may be implemented in or across a plurality of processing chips or devices and storage may similarly be effected across a plurality of devices. Therefore the present invention should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

