---

title: Facemask display
abstract: Systems and methods for a facemask wearer to view high resolution, high data content, color imagery are provided. A display using organic light emitting diode (OLED) micro-displays provides 800×600 color pixel resolution at 60 Hz. The OLED micro-displays allow for powering the system through a standard Universal Serial Bus (USB) port connected to a compatible sensor system that provides the required power and standard display signal to the OLED display. The display is held away from the user's field of view by a quick release facemask attachment bracket. The bracket can provide for flipping the display up and down, swiveling the display, or rotating the display with one hand. When needed, the display can be flipped down, such that the display is in contact with the facemask faceplate, enabling clear, focused images even in zero visibility water.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08405574&OS=08405574&RS=08405574
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08405574
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100730
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates to displays for facemasks. More particularly the present invention relates to head mounted displays worn by divers firefighters or the like.

Divers firefighters first responders and other workers that wear facemasks frequently need to be apprised of environmental and status information for the successful and safe completion of their work assignments. Such information can include details of their surroundings environmental and ambient conditions and data regarding depth orientation or status of their life support breathing apparatus.

Typically this information has been provided by visual display screens. These display screens are generally integrated displays on board IDOB systems built directly into the sensor equipment or remote head or mask mounted display systems attached to the sensor device via a cable. Both of the systems in use to date have significant shortfalls.

IDOB systems include flat panel or cathode ray tube screens built directly into the equipment or sensor held by the facemask wearer for displaying the data content of the equipment or sensor in a high resolution format. However such displays generally require a large amount of power greatly limiting their use with the portable battery powered systems used in the aforementioned work environments.

Additionally even small flat panel display screens have a minimum viewing distance of approximately 10 inches. At this distance the screens may not be clearly visible when viewed in highly turbid or poor visibility environments where the visibility may be in the range of one to two inches at best. Even in relatively clear conditions the physical size and brightness levels required for viewing are a tactical hindrance for military operations requiring low probability of detection such as clandestine or covert night missions.

Commercial off the shelf COTS head mounted displays HMDs are available. However the known displays typically require bulky interpupillary adjustment mechanisms for each individual user and or they have eye relief distances in the range of 25 mm. These features make them unsatisfactory for use with a facemask since the entire display may not be seen.

Additionally COTS HMDs generally use low resolution displays on the order of 320 240 pixels or 640 480 pixels significantly reducing image quality and effectiveness. Also a number of such systems have bulky mask attachment mechanisms and or large mechanical housings making them extremely difficult to use and possibly causing a safety hazard.

Thus a need has been recognized in the state of the art to provide systems for a facemask wearer to view high resolution high data content color imagery from a number of sensor devices. Further a need exists to provide this imagery to the wearer regardless of ambient visibility conditions and without requiring bulky optical adjustment mechanisms that may subject the facemask to leakage.

It is therefore a general purpose and primary object of the present invention to provide systems and methods for a facemask wearer to view high resolution high data content color imagery from a number of sensor devices. A display having organic light emitting diode OLED matrix micro displays provides 800 600 color pixel resolution at 60 Hz.

The display has a waterproof housing cable and connector assembly for underwater use. The housing materials and design can be chosen to provide specific depth ratings for the system. The low power usage of the OLED display allows the system to be powered through a standard Universal Serial Bus USB port. The display can be plugged into a compatible sensor system that provides the required power and standard display signal to the display.

A binocular embodiment includes cylindrical lens arrays spaced at 62.5 mm to project a virtual image with a horizontal field of view HFOV of 32 . A single readily accessible centrally located brightness control allows the user to adjust the system brightness for daylight nighttime or tactical situation operations.

Using a facemask attachment bracket with a clevis mechanism the display can be attached to the facemask away from the user s field of view. The clevis mechanism can provide for flipping the display up and down swiveling the display or rotating the display with one hand using a friction design known in the art. When needed the display can be flipped down such that the display is in contact with the facemask faceplate enabling clear focused images even in zero visibility water.

The facemask attachment bracket includes a U shaped frame extending along top and side portions of the facemask. The top and side portions of the frame are shaped to correspond with the top and side portions of the facemask. Removable attachment clips tailored for the specific facemask secure the frame to the facemask. The clevis mechanism includes a quick release mechanism that interconnects the U shaped frame and the display.

Two cylindrical holding pins are spaced apart and affixed at the top portion of the frame. The pins extend orthogonally from the top portion of the frame away from the facemask and have a circumferential radiused groove at a distance from the facemask. The ends of the pins distant from the facemask have a frusto conical shape.

The pins mate with bores in leg portions of the clevis mechanism. A spring loaded bar spans between the leg portions transverse to the axis of the bores. The ends of the bar are contained within slots parallel to the bar. The slots extend into the leg portions to intersect the bores with the base of the slots being offset from the bore axis. The spring biases the bar against the base of the slot such that the bar partially extends into the bore.

As the clevis mechanism is moved toward the frame the pins extend into the bores and the ends of the pins displace the bar from the bore. Continuing to move the clevis mechanism toward the frame results in the pins further advancing into the bores until the spring bias causes the bar to engage with the grooves on the pins so as to secure the clevis mechanism to the frame.

A lever is rotatably attached between the leg portions of the clevis mechanism. When pivoted about an axis parallel to the bar axis the lever contacts the bar and works against the spring bias to lift the bar out of the pin grooves. With the bar disengaged from the grooves the clevis mechanism can be moved away from the frame to retract the pins from the bores and disengage the clevis mechanism from the frame.

In one embodiment a display for a user of a facemask to view data from a sensor includes two viewing lenses spaced apart so as to provide a user with a horizontal field of view of between 31 and 33 . Two organic light emitting diode matrices are positioned along the same axes as the viewing lenses and spaced a distance apart from the viewing lenses. Two lens arrays are positioned along the axes between said viewing lenses and said matrices. The lens arrays have an offset from the axes so as to project images from the matrices onto the viewing lenses at an angle from the axes. The angle corresponds to an image convergence angle for over 90 of a user population.

The display includes a housing which encloses the matrices and the arrays and secures the viewing lenses. The housing protects components of the display contained within the housing from environments surrounding the housing. A Universal Serial Bus connector extends from said housing the connector transmits power and the data from the sensor to the display. A control is positioned on the exterior of the housing and accessible to the user. The control is in communication with the matrices to control the brightness of the images.

In one embodiment an index bracket assembly is secured to the facemask and a clevis attachment is affixed to the housing and to the index bracket assembly. The index bracket assembly includes a U shaped frame with top and side portions consistent in shape with top and side rim portions of the facemask. At least one clip is secured to the frame and removably compresses at least one of the top or side rim portions between the frame and the clip. At least two holding pins are spaced apart and affixed to the frame. The pins extend orthogonally from the frame in a direction away from the facemask. A clevis mechanism has bores formed therein. Each of the pins is accepted into one of the bores and is releasably secured within the bore. The clevis attachment is secured to the clevis mechanism.

The clevis mechanism includes a base portion which houses the bores. The base portion is positioned adjacent the frame when the pins are secured within the bores. Appendages extend orthogonally from the base portion and the bores extend through the base portion into the appendages.

A movable retaining bar is positioned transverse to and spans between the appendages and intersects the bores in the appendages. The retaining bar is spring biased to reside at least partially in the bores. The ends of the pins displace the retaining bar from the bores. The bar engages the groove in each of the pins so as to secure the clevis mechanism to the frame.

A lever is pivotally attached between the appendages with a first end of the lever in contact with the bar. Pivoting the lever about an axis parallel to the bar disengages the bar from the grooves. The clevis mechanism includes a bolt that extends through the appendages and secures the clevis attachment between the appendages. In one embodiment the centerline axes of the viewing lenses and matrices are spaced apart a distance of 62.5 millimeters. In one embodiment the offset is 2 .

In one embodiment a display for a user of a facemask to view data from a sensor includes two viewing lenses having centerline axes spaced apart a distance that provides a user with a horizontal field of view of between 31 and 33 . In one embodiment the viewing lenses are spaced apart a distance of 62.5 millimeters.

Two organic light emitting diode matrices are spaced a distance along the axes from the viewing lenses and two lens arrays are positioned along the axes between the viewing lenses and the matrices. The arrays have an offset from the axes so as to project images from the matrices onto the viewing lenses at an angle from the axes. The angle corresponds to an image convergence angle for over 90 of a user population. In one embodiment the angle is 2 .

A housing encloses the matrices and arrays and secures the viewing lenses. The housing protects components of the display contained within the housing from environments surrounding the housing. A U shaped frame has top and side portions consistent in shape with top and side rim portions of the facemask. At least one clip is secured to the frame and removably compresses either one or both of the top and side rim portions between the frame and the clip.

At least two holding pins are spaced apart and affixed to the frame. The pins extend orthogonally from the frame in a direction away from the facemask. A clevis attachment is affixed to the housing. A clevis mechanism has bores formed therein. Each of the pins is accepted into one of the bores and is releasably secured within the bore. The clevis attachment is secured to the clevis mechanism.

A Universal Serial Bus connector extends from the housing and transmits power and data from a sensor to the display. A control knob is positioned on the exterior of the housing so as to be easily accessible to a user. The control knob is in communication with the matrices to control the brightness of the images from the matrices.

Referring now to and there are shown a schematic side view and a top view respectively of facemask display . Universal Serial Bus USB cable connects display to a compatible sensor system not shown in . Both power and the display signal to display are provided through cable . In the description that follows reference is made to the use of display in an underwater environment. However as would be readily apparent to those of skill in the art the features described herein are equally applicable for use in other environments where a facemask is worn.

Junction provides a waterproof seal for cable to enter housing of display . Housing provides a waterproof enclosure for organic light emitting diode OLED matrices only one of which is shown in phantom in for clarity and electronics . Electronics controls the output of matrices in accordance with data received via cable .

Housing further provides a waterproof seal for lenses . Both junction and housing utilize waterproofing materials and designs as are known to those of skill in the art. For illustrative purposes only in and not for limitation tops of cylindrical portions of housing are removed along dash dot lines and arrows in to provide an unobstructed view of matrices electronics and other internal components of display as will be described in detail hereinafter.

Display is secured to a facemask using clevis attachment in a manner known in the art. As will be described in further detail hereinafter clevis attachment provides for flipping display up and down swiveling display or rotating display with one hand using a friction design known in the art. Brightness control not visible in is centrally positioned on display to provide for ease of accessibility. Control is in communication with electronics such that operation of control adjusts the brightness of OLED matrices for daylight nighttime or tactical situation operations.

Referring more particularly to there is shown a top view of display . OLED matrices are positioned along centerlines axes X X of cylindrical housing portions of housing distant from lenses . In the preferred embodiment axes X X are spaced apart a distance of 62.5 millimeters mm . This projects a virtual image at lenses with a horizontal field of view HFOV of 32 . OLED matrices provide for a color pixel resolution in the range of 800 600 pixels at 60 Hertz Hz in a manner known for commercial off the shelf COTS OLEDs.

Cylindrical lens arrays only one of which is shown in phantom in for clarity are positioned along axes X X between matrices and lenses . Arrays are configured to project images from OLED matrices illustrated by arrows A in at an offset of 2 from axes X X such that the center of the images arrows A are spaced farther apart than axes X X at lenses .

The 2 offsets enable users with interpupillary distances of from 52 mm to 72 mm to converge and view the images at lenses without the need for a mechanical adjustment apparatus. Approximately 93 of the population has an interpupillary distance in the above mentioned range.

Referring now to there is shown a side view of display in a viewing configuration. Lenses are positioned adjacent facemask and more particularly adjacent faceplate of facemask . In this position lenses provide a 35 mm eye relief viewing distance based on a standard underwater mask. The 35 mm eye relief viewing distance allows the user to easily see the entire display image through facemask unlike the 25 mm eye relief viewing distance of current systems. With the 32 HFOV the 35 mm eye relief viewing distance is the equivalent of viewing a 69 diagonal display at a distance of 10 feet.

To position display against facemask clevis attachment is secured to clevis mechanism . In turn clevis mechanism is secured to index bracket assembly and index bracket assembly is secured to facemask all as described in further detail hereinafter. Clevis attachment provides for rotating display away from facemask as indicated by arrow to a stowed position illustrated in phantom . In the stowed position display does not obstruct the user s vision.

Referring now to there is shown a schematic side view of index bracket assembly attached to a representative SCUBA facemask shown in phantom in . It will be understood by those of skill in the art that the exact configuration of index bracket assembly will depend on the specific facemask to which assembly will be attached. However the features of assembly described hereinafter apply equally to a multitude of facemask configurations.

U shaped frame of assembly has a top portion and side portions that generally conform to the shape of facemask . Frame is configured such that when pressed against facemask the obstruction of the diver s view through facemask is minimized.

Referring also to there is shown a top view of assembly attached to mask . Clips are removably attached to and extend a distance along leg portions of frame and secure frame to facemask . For the exemplary embodiment illustrated in but not for limitation clips are L shaped having first legs orthogonal to frame and second legs distant from frame and extending in a plane parallel to the plane of frame .

A width of leg portions is such that leg portions and first legs of clips extend beyond the perimeter of facemask . Bolts extend through leg portions and mate with threaded bores in first legs . As bolts are tightened into threaded bores second legs are drawn towards frame such that rim portions of facemask which secure faceplate are compressed between second legs and frame leg portions . In this manner frame is held securely against facemask .

It will be understood by those of skill in the art that the exact configuration of clips will depend on the specific facemask to which frame is attached. In addition the foregoing description is not intended to limit the manner in which clips secure frame to facemask . Additional examples by which clips secure frame include clips being spring loaded clips draw bolt latch clips cam latch clips or other clip designs known in the art.

Two cylindrical holding pins are spaced apart and affixed at top portion of frame . Pins extend orthogonally from top portion in a direction away from facemask . Circumferential radiused grooves are formed in pins at a distance from facemask . Ends of pins distant from facemask have a frusto conical shape.

Pins mate with bores in clevis mechanism not shown in for clarity . Clevis attachment is secured between clevis appendages in a manner known in the art to provide for flipping clevis attachment up and down swiveling clevis attachment or rotating clevis attachment with one hand.

Referring also to there is shown a cross sectional view taken at line of . For clarity only a part of side portion of frame is shown and facemask is not shown in . For the exemplary embodiment shown in bolt secures clevis attachment between appendages . Spring loaded bar spans between appendages transverse to axis X X of bores . Ends of bar are contained within slots formed in appendages parallel to bar . Slots extend into appendages to intersect bores with base of slots being offset from axis X X of bores . Spring biases bar against base of slot such that bar partially extends into bores .

As clevis mechanism is moved toward frame in the direction of arrow pins extend into bores until frusto conical ends of pins encounter bar . Further movement of clevis mechanism toward frame results in frusto conical ends displacing bar from bores . Continuing to move clevis mechanism toward frame results in pins further advancing into bores until spring biases bar to engage with grooves on pins so as to secure clevis mechanism to frame with base of clevis mechanism being held against frame .

Lever is rotatably attached between appendages of clevis mechanism so as to pivot about axis Y Y parallel to and offset from bar . When pivoted about axis Y Y in a direction indicated by arrow end of lever contacts bar and works against the bias of spring to lift bar out of grooves on pins . With bar disengaged from grooves clevis mechanism can be moved away from frame to retract pins from bores and disengage clevis mechanism from frame .

What have thus been described are systems and methods for a facemask wearer to view high resolution high data content color imagery from a number of sensor devices. Display has a waterproof housing . The housing materials and design can be chosen to provide specific depth ratings for the system or to accommodate specific environmental conditions. Organic light emitting diode OLED matrix provides 800 600 color pixel resolution at 60 Hz.

The low power usage of OLED matrix allows the system to be powered through a standard Universal Serial Bus USB . Display can be plugged into a compatible sensor system that provides the required power and standard display signal to display . A binocular embodiment includes lens arrays preferably spaced at 62.5 mm to project a virtual image with a horizontal field of view HFOV of 32 .

Arrays are configured to project images from OLED matrices at an offset of 2 . The 2 offsets enable users with interpupillary distances of from 52 mm to 72 mm approximately 93 of the population to view and converge the images at lenses without the need for a mechanical adjustment apparatus. A single accessible brightness control allows the user to adjust the system brightness for daylight nighttime or tactical situation operations from a single readily accessible central location.

Clevis attachment on housing and clevis mechanism secure display to a facemask index bracket assembly while retaining the ability to remove display quickly without dislodging or removing the mask. Index bracket assembly provides a means to give facemask wearers an option for selectively connecting different displays and other external apparatuses to a facemask. Therefore index bracket assembly as disclosed herein is not to be construed as limiting but rather is intended to be demonstrative of this inventive concept.

The quick release feature embodied in pins bores bar and lever allows an operator to put on or remove an apparatus with one hand and without removing his her mask. Each apparatus can include clevis attachment that can be pre mounted on clevis mechanism ready for operation without requiring the cumbersome operation of unbolting the apparatus from clevis mechanism during operational use.

Additionally clips provide for rigid attachment of index bracket to the facemask. Clips provide a significant improvement over securing the index frame with head straps as in prior art index brackets. The head strap method can allow excessive movement of the apparatus relative to the dive mask and in the case of critical alignment requirements allows too much slop and movement for practical functionality.

Many modifications and variations of the present invention may become apparent in light of the above teachings. For example the exact spacing of axes X X and the 2 offsets of lens arrays may vary depending on the placement of OLED matrices and lens arrays within housing . The combination of the spacing of axes X X and the offsets of lens arrays combine to provide a 32 1 HFOV and to enable users with interpupillary distances of from 52 mm to 72 mm to converge and view the images at lenses without the need for a mechanical adjustment apparatus.

Additionally with some facemask configurations bar may be readily accessible to the user. With such configurations the user can directly move bar against the bias of spring without the need for lever to lift bar out of grooves . Further as described hereinbefore the configuration of clips and clevis mechanism can be varied to suit the particular facemask and apparatuses to be used.

It will be understood that many additional changes in details materials steps and arrangements of parts which have been described herein and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention as expressed in the appended claims.

