---

title: System and method for simplifying secure network setup
abstract: A method in one example implementation includes discovering a networking device within a wireless connectivity range from a first computing device. The networking device may be configured for wireless connectivity by sending new network configuration settings to the networking device to be stored in a memory element. The method also includes configuring the first computing device to initiate a wireless connection to the networking device, such that the wireless connection is created without requiring the user to provide any configuration settings associated with the wireless connection. In more specific embodiments, if it is determined that the networking device is unconfigured, then the new network configuration settings are automatically generated. In other more specific embodiments, the new network configuration settings include a new network identifier and a new network password.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08649297&OS=08649297&RS=08649297
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08649297
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100326
---
This disclosure relates in general to the field of computer networks and more particularly to simplifying the setup and configuration of a secure network.

Computing devices and computer networking have become an integral part of daily life in today s society. Personal and business usage of computing devices such as laptops personal computers smartphones i.e. cell phones offering advanced computing capabilities personal digital assistants PDAs and the like have exploded in recent years. In addition other electronic devices such as printers gaming devices smart appliances etc. have also surged in popularity. For example a home may include one or more personal computers a printing device a gaming device shared by family members and one or more smartphones owned by individual family members. Small businesses may provide personal computers and smartphones or PDAs for employees in addition to one or more printers shared by the employees.

Private local area networks LANs may be used to enhance the usefulness and potential of computing devices and other electronic devices in homes and small businesses. In a LAN devices may be linked together through a networking device such as a router. The router may be connected to other private and public networks such as the Internet. In such a configuration the router facilitates communication by routing packets of data between the devices within the LAN and also to and from other devices in private and public networks outside the LAN. Thus home users and small businesses may use LANs to enable their computing devices and other electronic devices to communicate both within the private network and outside the private network. To setup and secure a LAN with a networking device such as a router knowledge of router configuration is typically required. This can be daunting for most individuals who have little or no understanding of the technical aspects of computers or computer networks. Thus a simplified approach for configuring secure networks would be useful.

A method in one example implementation includes discovering a networking device within a wireless connectivity range from a first computing device. The networking device may be configured for wireless connectivity by sending new network configuration settings to the networking device to be stored in a memory element. The method also includes configuring the first computing device to initiate a wireless connection to the networking device such that the wireless connection is created without requiring the user to provide any configuration settings associated with the wireless connection. In more specific embodiments the method includes determining whether the networking device is unconfigured and if so then generating the new network configuration settings. In other more specific embodiments the new network configuration settings include a new network identifier and a new network password. In further specific embodiments the method includes determining whether the networking device has made an operative connection to a wide area network so that packets of data can be exchanged between the networking device and the wide area network.

In example embodiments a system and method for simplifying secure network setup may be implemented in network by providing setup key and router to simplify interconnecting wireless and or hardwired computers and other electronic devices through router such that packets of data can be securely exchanged by the networked devices. During the initial setup and configuration of network setup key may provide executable instructions to a computer such as wireless computer for automatically configuring router to securely communicate wirelessly with computer without the need for configuration settings or other substantive information from a user. During the initial setup communication between router and another network such as Internet may also be established. Once the initial setup and configuration of router and wireless computer has been completed setup key may be used to store configuration settings of router to enable the secure connection of additional computers to router by providing setup key to the additional computers. In addition an administrative tool application may be installed on computer to provide a user with the ability to configure additional devices to be added to network and to configure administrative settings for network such as parental controls guest access and or router settings.

For purposes of illustrating the techniques of such a system it is important to understand the activities occurring within a network environment having a variety of networked devices such as computers and other electronic devices interconnected to each other and to other networks by a common networking device such as a router. The following foundational information may be viewed as a basis from which the present disclosure may be properly explained. Such information is offered earnestly for purposes of explanation only and accordingly should not be construed in any way to limit the broad scope of the present disclosure and its potential applications.

Although private networks utilizing wireless connections are highly desirable the setup and configuration of such networks can be a difficult and cumbersome task for most users. Wireless networks are desirable because computers and other electronic devices can be easily moved and positioned throughout a home or small business. Incorporating wireless communication also helps minimize aesthetically unpleasant cable clutter. Wireless communication however can be more susceptible to security breaches. Therefore such networks should be carefully configured with appropriate security settings.

Most users have limited knowledge of the technical aspects of computer networking and consequently have difficulty configuring secure wireless networks. A typical private network may include one or more computing devices a common networking device such as a router and an Internet connection. Depending upon the particular devices and existing network configuration configuring a wireless router may require the user to input one or more of the following identifiers and passwords web address of the router e.g. 192.168.0.1 etc. an administrative username and password a network name or service set identifier SSID i.e. a name that identifies a wireless LAN and may have up to 32 characters a network password i.e. security key or passphrase and a media access control MAC address i.e. a unique identifier assigned to a network adapter or network interface card often referred to as a physical address . In addition routers are often initially configured with open encryption so the first time the user powers up the router it becomes an open access point with no encryption and with a published SSID allowing anyone with an Internet connection immediate access to any devices connected behind the router. Therefore properly securing the router during the setup configuration is essential and may require the user to select an encryption protocol such as for example Wired Equivalent Privacy WEP encryption or Wi Fi Protected Access WPA and WPA2 encryption.

Although various tools are available to help configure wireless networks even most guided device setup programs or wizards ask the user numerous questions and require configuration settings and other substantive information to be provided by the user to properly configure the router. Most users have little understanding of the technical distinctions between identifiers passwords usernames and addresses. For example users may easily confuse an administrative username and password with an SSID and a network password thereby complicating the setup process and creating frustration and aggravation on the part of the user. Often the only solution is for the user to involve a third party with technical knowledge such as a technical support group of a company that manufactured or sold the router. For small businesses such a scenario could waste precious resources and valuable time.

Even when a user succeeds in setting up a network with a router and a computer configuration problems often arise again when the user attempts to add another computer or other electronic device to the network. Adding a device to the network may require the user to again provide configuration settings and other substantive information such as SSID network password encryption information administrative username administrative password and the like. Unless the user recorded the configuration settings and other information during the initial network setup procedure the same issues that may have occurred during the initial network setup may reoccur during any subsequent attempts to add other devices to the network.

A system for simplifying secure network setup as outlined in can resolve many of these issues. In accordance with one example implementation a router may be provided with an associated network application to setup a secure local network. A setup component of the network application may be executed on a first computer to configure the router and first computer and then to connect the first computer to the router creating a secure private network. The setup component enables automatic configuration of the router and first computer into a secure private LAN without requiring the user to know or provide information related to router configuration settings such as network names usernames passwords web addresses or encryption types for the router. Rather the setup component may find know and or generate necessary router configuration settings. The setup component may also automatically determine whether the router has been connected to another network such as the Internet. If there is no Internet connection the setup component may attempt to remedy the connection problem. Once the user completes the setup of the router and the first computer the configuration settings may be stored in a computer readable medium which may be used to configure additional computers for wireless or hardwired connection to the router. In addition the setup component may install an administrative tool component on the first computer that provides the user with necessary information to connect other electronic devices to the router. Thus such a system simplifies the setup procedure for secure wireless LANs and minimizes the frustration and time spent by users configuring such networks.

Turning to the infrastructure of a system and method for simplifying secure network setup may be implemented to achieve a network environment such as example network . Computers in network may include any computing devices such as personal computers laptops desktops and other similar programmable computing devices with versatile computing capabilities. Network may also include other electronic devices such as game console smartphone and printing device . Other wireless or wired electronic devices or may include for example personal digital assistants PDAs cameras digital music players digital video recorders computing appliances other special purpose computing devices etc. It will be apparent that some electronic devices may have enhanced computing capabilities such that they would be more accurately described as computers or computing devices. Thus any electronic device capable of performing functions similar to the computers and computing devices described herein may be configured in network as described with reference to computers and computing devices in network .

In computers and other electronic devices may be connected to router using any suitable communication medium to facilitate electronic communication between the devices. For example computer game console smartphone printing device and other wireless electronic devices may be wirelessly connected to router through a wireless connection e.g. IEEE 802.11 standards . Computer and other wired electronic devices may be connected to router through a physical wire such as an Ethernet cable. In this embodiment router may receive wired or wireless electronic communications typically in the form of packets of data from one computer or electronic device and direct the packets to another specified computer or electronic device within network thus enabling electronic communication between networked devices within private network . In one embodiment router communicates with the networked devices in network using one or more communication protocols such as for example Internet Protocol Suite TCP IP employing the use of a distinct logical address for each of the networked devices.

Network may also be connected through router to another private network a public network such as Internet or a combination of public and private networks. In the example embodiment shown in router is connected to Internet link e.g. a modem which may be connected to Internet by any appropriate medium including for example digital subscriber lines DSL telephone lines T1 lines T3 lines wireless satellite fiber optics cable Ethernet etc. or any combination thereof. An arrangement as shown in permits router to route electronic communications from networked devices and in network to devices in other networks such as Internet . Similarly router may receive electronic communications from Internet or other networks to which network is connected and route such communications to the specified computer or other electronic device within network .

Setup key may provide a network application with a setup component and initial configuration settings to a computer such as for example wireless computer to initiate the secure setup and configuration of router and computer and the wireless connection therebetween. In one embodiment setup key may be a transportable computer readable medium such as a universal serial bus USB flash memory a compact disc CD or the like. After router has been initially configured and is connected to a computer such as computer the configuration settings may be stored on setup key if available or on another computer readable medium which may then be used to configure additional computers to access router . Also after router and computer have been successfully configured and wirelessly connected an administrative tool component which may be part of the network application on setup key may be installed on computer for providing a user with administrative options for network . For example the administrative tool component may offer the user the option to add additional computers or other electronic devices to network configure parental controls on router setup a guest access network through router or manually modify configuration settings of router .

It should be understood that while an example network has been shown and described herein the system and method of the present disclosure may be implemented in any network environment capable of supporting the architecture. Accordingly the description with reference to network should be not be construed to imply architectural limitations but rather should be construed as illustrative.

Turning to is a simplified block diagram of an example computer that may be implemented in network according to the present disclosure. As shown in computer may include a processor operably connected to memory a USB port an Ethernet adapter a wireless network adapter an optical disk drive and a user interface . User interface may be a graphical user interface and may include a display screen with suitable input devices such as for example a keyboard a touch screen a mouse a touchpad a trackball audio input devices and the like. Ethernet adapter enables computer to be physically connected to a network by a wire such as an Ethernet cable. Wireless network adapter may include suitable transmitting and receiving components such as transceivers for wirelessly communicating with a local network. Both Ethernet adapter and wireless network adapter may be configured to communicate with a network such as network using suitable communication protocols such as for example Internet Protocol Suite TCP IP . Computer is shown with both Ethernet adapter and wireless network adapter for illustrative purposes only. While one or both hardwire and wireless adapters may be installed inside computer or externally connected to computer only one connection option is required to enable connection of computer to a network such as network .

Not shown in is additional hardware that may be suitably coupled to processor and other components in the form of memory management units MMU additional symmetric multiprocessing SMP elements physical memory peripheral component interconnect PCI bus and corresponding bridges small computer system interface SCSI integrated drive electronics IDE elements etc. Computer may include any additional suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective protection and communication of data. Furthermore any suitable operating system may also be configured in computer to appropriately manage the operation of the hardware components therein.

Other electronic devices added to network may have one or more components as described with reference to computer of in addition to other components not shown in . The components of such devices may be configured to achieve the intended purposes of the particular electronic device which may or may not differ from computer . In addition other electronic devices may have a different combination of components such as for example a printing device without an optical disc drive. Such other electronic devices as referenced in this application however need some type of internal or external network interface such as an Ethernet adapter or a wireless network adapter for communicating with a router and providing necessary information for network configuration in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure.

Referring to a simplified block diagram of an embodiment of a router that may be implemented in network according to the present disclosure is shown. Router may include a processor operably connected to a central processing unit CPU bus that may provide access to memory . Memory may include a variety of components including random access memory RAM read only memory ROM flash memory non volatile memory and the like. Processor may be operably coupled to wireless adapter having suitable transmitting and receiving components such as transceivers for wirelessly communicating with local networked devices. Ethernet adapter may also provide wired ports for providing a hardwire connection between computers and other electronic devices and router . An internet port may enable router to be connected to an Internet link such as a modem which communicates with private or public networks through for example Internet Service Providers ISPs Internet servers with dedicated bandwidth switches gateways other routers and any other device used to achieve successful electronic communication between router and another network. Router may also include a power connector for providing electrical power to the components therein.

Not shown in is a serial wide area network interface card WIC suitably coupled to Internet port which is a specialized network interface card NIC that allows router to connect to a wide area network WAN such as the Internet. Also not shown is a Channel Service Unit Data Service Unit CSU DSU interface that allows the WIC to communicate with router . Router may also include any additional suitable hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. This may be inclusive of appropriate algorithms and communication protocols that allow for the effective protection and communication of data to both a local network and to other private or public networks outside the local network. Additionally any suitable operating system such as Internetwork Operating System IOS by Cisco Systems Inc. of San Jose Calif. may also be configured in router to appropriately manage the operation of the hardware components therein.

Turning to shows a simplified block diagram of a logical representation of a computer readable medium which may be used as a setup key in network in accordance with embodiments described in the present disclosure. Computer readable medium may contain any type of data storage memory capable of storing data and executable code and capable of being read by a computer. For instance in some embodiments computer readable medium may be a Universal Serial Bus flash memory USB key a compact disc CD or any combination thereof. For example in some embodiments multiple setup keys may be used in a network. In one example embodiment a CD may be used initially to configure a network with a first computer and a common networking device such as a router and then a USB key may subsequently be used to store configuration settings for adding new computers to the network. In another example embodiment a USB key may be used to initially configure a network and then the new configuration settings may be stored on the same USB key which may then be used to add new computers to the network. Thus in some embodiments computer readable medium may be read writable such that data can be written to it by a computer or other electronic device.

As shown in one embodiment in computer readable medium may include a configuration settings file and a network application . Network application may in one example embodiment include a setup component an administrative tool component and a connect computer component . Network application may be written in any number of programming languages capable of performing operations necessary to implement an embodiment of the present disclosure. In one embodiment a combination of C C Objective C and Objective C programming languages is used. Configuration settings file may be encoded using for example Extensible Markup Language XML format. In one embodiment configuration settings file may include a mode element indicating a state of computer readable medium and an appropriate execution mode e.g. Connect Mode for 1computer Connect Mode for ncomputer where n 1 and Tool Mode for network application . Thus when network application is launched the components of network application may be executed as indicated by the value of the mode element. An alternative embodiment may implement setup component administrative tool component and connect computer component as separate applications. In another alternative embodiment configuration settings file and or network application or selected components thereof could be provisioned in another component or element such as for example a wireless network adapter which could be provided to a computer to be configured in network . In yet another embodiment configuration settings file and or network application or selected components thereof could be received or downloaded from a web server in order to provide this system to simplify secure network setup.

In accordance with embodiments in the disclosure network application and configuration settings file may guide a user to securely setup and configure a local area network LAN having a common networking device such as a router and a first computer with either a wireless or hardwired connection. In one embodiment this setup and configuration may be accomplished without requiring any router configuration settings from the user such as SSID network password encryption type administrative username administrative password etc. Setup component discovers an unconfigured router reconfigures wireless settings on the router configures the wireless settings on the computer connects to the router establishes a wide area network WAN connection updates computer readable medium with new configuration settings and installs administrative tool component on the computer after the setup and configuration has been successful. Once the initial configuration of the router has been completed configuration settings file may be updated to indicate that an initial setup and configuration of the router and first computer has been completed. In such an embodiment connect computer component may then be executed to configure additional computers to communicate with the router by either a wireless or hardwire connection using the updated configuration settings stored in configuration settings file of computer readable medium .

In one alternative embodiment the computer readable medium may be configured as a read only medium such as for example a read only compact disc CD . In this embodiment the computer readable medium may be manufactured such that configuration settings file includes new configuration settings such as a new network password a new network identifier and a new administrative password. These settings could be serialized or otherwise uniquely created for each computer readable medium. The new configuration settings may be used during the setup process to configure the router with the new configuration settings and to set the wireless profile on the computer such that the computer can wirelessly connect to the router. Thus in this embodiment the computer readable medium may be read only as it would not need to be updated with other new configuration settings.

When connecting a new computer to the router in this alternative embodiment a determination may first need to be made as to whether the router has been previously configured with another computer. This may be accomplished for example by using the new configuration settings to attempt to access the router. If the router is found and a connection is established then the software may assume the router has been previously configured and therefore will only need to perform a process such as process shown in for adding a new computer to a previously configured network. If the router is not found with the new configuration settings however then a search may be made for a router with a predetermined SSID e.g. CISCOXXXXX as previously described herein. If a router is found with this predetermined SSID then the software may assume the router has not been previously configured and may configure the router and the computer using a wireless network configuration process such as process shown in but may omit the steps of generating new configuration settings and storing such settings on the computer readable medium.

Turning now to include flowcharts of user actions combined with network application including setup component administrative tool component and connect computer component and selected screen displays associated with such components which could be displayed to a user on a user interface such as user interface of computer during setup and configuration of a router a computer and any additional computers and other electronic devices in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure. In addition includes various stages of an exemplary configuration settings file during the processing of network application . For ease of reference will be described herein with references to computer router computer readable medium and their associated components elements and modules although various other devices components elements modules and the like may be used to implement the system and method shown and described with reference to .

Once computer readable medium has been inserted or otherwise connected to the computer network application may be launched in step . In certain embodiments network application may be automatically launched such as for example using autorun software technology in Microsoft Windows XP operating system. In other embodiments the user may be prompted in a dialog box with options for network application and therefore the user may have to select an option to run or launch network application . In one embodiment if the mode element of configuration settings file is Connect for a 1computer then network application knows to begin setup component . In step setup component may search for available network adapters on the computer. This search may be accomplished using operating system application programming interfaces APIs . In step a determination is made as to whether a wireless network adapter has been found. If a wireless network adapter has been found then in step setup component configures a wireless network. However if a wireless adapter is not found in step then setup component may configure a wired network in step . Thus in one embodiment setup component defaults to configuring a wireless connection even if the computer includes both wired and wireless adapters. In addition although not specifically shown in if no adapters are found on the computer then setup component will provide appropriate help and or error message screen displays to the user and no configuration steps will be taken until an adapter is found.

In step of once a wireless or wired network has been established setup component may establish a wide area connection WAN to another network such as for example the Internet. In step after a WAN connection has been established setup component may then complete the setup and configuration of the computer and the router. Such completion functions may include installing administrative tool component in the computer turning on administrative functions such as parental controls and guest access on the router and updating computer readable medium or creating a new one.

As shown in step of polling may begin to find an unconfigured router within a wireless connectivity range. In one embodiment the polling may include using an operating system of the computer to search for a router having a particular SSID such as for example an SSID with a predetermined format CISCOXXXXX where XXXXX corresponds to the last five numbers of a character string e.g. serial number assigned to the router. This predetermined SSID format may be preset on unconfigured routers such that detection of this SSID format indicates that the router is in an unconfigured state. The operating system may use wireless APIs for detecting an available SSID within a wireless connectivity range. In step a determination is made as to whether an SSID having the predetermined format e.g. CISCOXXXXX is found thereby indicating the router is in an unconfigured state. If an SSID with the predetermined format is not found then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether polling has reached a maximum time limit and if it has not flow loops back to step to continue polling to detect an unconfigured router. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step . If an unconfigured router having an SSID in the predetermined format e.g. CISCOXXXXX is found in step then in step a wireless profile is created in the computer. A wireless profile may be created in a memory element such as memory of the computer by storing proper metadata into native wireless configurations for the existing operating system of the computer instructing the operating system to establish a persistent connection with the detected unconfigured router having the predetermined SSID format.

In step of a now connecting to router screen such as the screen shown in may be displayed to the user. In step the operating system uses the wireless profile stored on the computer to attempt to wirelessly connect to the router through wireless network adapter. In step tests are performed to determine whether a wireless connection has been made between the computer and the router. The tests validate that the operating system of the computer is connected to the expected unconfigured router and that the operating system has received an IP address from the unconfigured router. If the determination in step indicates that the computer is not wirelessly connected to the expected unconfigured router then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether attempts to wirelessly connect have reached a maximum time limit and if not flow loops back to step to continue attempting to wirelessly connect to the router. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step .

If the determination in step however indicates that the computer has successfully connected wirelessly to the router then flow passes to where a collision detection process may be performed in steps through if both wireless and wired adapters exist on the computer. A check is made in step as to whether the wireless and wired adapters are connected to routers on the same subnet. For example if the wireless adapter is communicating with a router on subnet 192.168.1.1 and the wired adapter is connected to a router on subnet 192.168.0.1 then no conflict exists and wireless network configuration process continues. However if the wireless and wired adapters are connected to a router on the same subnet e.g. 192.168.1.1 then a check is performed in step to determine whether it is the same router. If the wired and wireless adapters are communicating with the same router then no conflict exists and wireless network configuration process continues. However if the wired and wireless adapters are communicating with different routers assigned to the same subnet then the operating system may not be able to distinguish between the routers and a conflict may occur. Therefore if it is determined in step that the wireless and wired adapters are connected to different routers a help screen may be displayed to the user in step to assist the user in resolving the conflict so that wireless configuration can be completed.

After the connection has been successfully made to the unconfigured router and any possible wireless and wired conflicts have been resolved flow passes to step where wireless settings are reconfigured on the router. The process may gain administrative access to the router using a known default password in order to change the router configuration settings. In one embodiment APIs may be used to perform the changes to the router settings. The SSID of the router which is initially set to the predetermined format e.g. CISCOXXXXX as previously described herein may be changed to a new SSID which may be automatically generated using a random SSID generation algorithm. In one example embodiment the new SSID could be a human readable random string including an adjective and a noun such as for example ShortWillow. In addition the router may not be provided with open encryption but rather may be provided in a setup mode that includes enabled encryption by default such as WPA and WPA2. A new network password may be generated using a password generation algorithm. In addition a new administrative password may be generated using the password generation algorithm. The SSID and passwords may then be changed to the new SSID and passwords in the router. The combination of enabled encryption a unique SSID generated by the setup component and network and administrative passwords generated by the setup component provides a fully encrypted fully secure and fully locked down router without requiring any configuration settings to be provided by the user during the setup process.

After the router settings have been reconfigured a new wireless connection to the router is made using the new router settings. In step the operating system of the computer scans for the new SSID. If the new SSID is not found in step then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether polling for the new SSID has reached a maximum time limit and if it has not flow loops back to step to continue polling to detect the new SSID. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step . Referring back to step however if the new SSID is found then the wireless profile in the computer is updated in step . The updated wireless profile may include among other things the new SSID the new network password and the encryption security type. After the wireless profile has been updated the operating system attempts to wirelessly reconnect to the router through the wireless network adapter in step . In step tests are again performed to determine whether a wireless connection has been made between the computer and the router as previously described herein. If the determination in step indicates that the computer is not wirelessly connected to the configured router with the new SSID then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether attempts to wirelessly connect have reached a maximum time limit and if not flow loops back to step to continue attempting to wirelessly connect to the configured router. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a help screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step . With reference again to step if the wireless connection has been successfully made to the router using the new SSID then the wireless network configuration process ends.

Turning to is a flowchart showing a more detailed process of step to configure a wired network when a wired network adapter such as Ethernet adapter is found. Process begins by determining in step whether the Ethernet adapter is enabled with Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP . If the Ethernet adapter is not DHCP enabled then in step the Ethernet adapter settings are configured to DHCP release renew. In step a connect your router screen is displayed which may be the same or similar screen as shown in which is displayed during process for wireless network configuration. Once the user has completed the manual steps to connect the router as instructed on the screen of i.e. plugging in the router to a power outlet and connecting one end of an Internet cable to an Internet port in the router and an opposite end to a modem the user may click on the NEXT user interface control button on the screen display. After the user clicks the NEXT button step displays a connect to your router screen such as the screen display shown in . The screen in shows the user how to connect the computer to the router using a network cable. In addition further instructive screens may be displayed giving step by step directions and pictorials on how to disconnect existing cables between the computer and an upstream Internet connection e.g. cable modem DSL modem fiber optics modem gateway other router etc. and appropriately reconnect the cables to the new router. Such additional instructive screens may be displayed if the user clicks a LEARN MORE user interface option on the screen of . Once the user finishes the manual connections to connect the computer to the router with a network cable the user may click the NEXT user interface control button on the screen of .

As shown in step in process then checks whether the computer has a network connection. If a network connection is detected then a determination is made as to whether the connection has been made to an expected unconfigured router. In one embodiment the expected unconfigured router is determined based on whether an SSID of the router has a predetermined format e.g. CISCOXXXXX . The SSID is checked so that the wireless settings on the router can be configured for any future wireless connections that may be made. If it is determined that the computer is not connected to an expected unconfigured router in step then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether waiting for a connection to an unconfigured router has reached a maximum time limit and if it has not flow loops back to step to continue checking whether connection has been made to an unconfigured router. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step . If it is determined that the computer is connected to an unconfigured router having an SSID in the predetermined format e.g. CISCOXXXXX in step then flow proceeds to step to reconfigure wireless settings in the router as previously described herein. The wireless settings are reconfigured to permit secure connection of any wireless devices subsequently connected to the router. After the wireless settings are reconfigured in the router process ends.

If the router is determined to not have Internet connection at step because the settings are not valid or the URI has not been successfully contacted e.g. HTTP Head or Get Request receives a response status code indicating an error or receives no response at all then several checks may be performed to attempt to resolve the Internet connection problem. First in step a call may be made to the router using any suitable protocol to get the WAN status. In one embodiment the status call may be performed using HNAP protocol which is described in detail in U.S. Pending patent application Ser. No. 11 457 783 filed Jul. 14 2006 naming Hopmann et al. as inventors and published on Jun. 7 2007 as U.S. Publication No. 2007 0130286 A1 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety. It will be apparent however that any other suitable protocol may be used to obtain WAN status information. At step the WAN status is checked to determine whether the router indicates it is connected to something. If the router does not indicate any upstream connection then a time out procedure is used in steps . In step a determination is made as to whether it is the first time an upstream cable link was not found and if it is then a wait time is activated in step . After the wait time has completed flow loops back to step to make HNAP protocol calls to get WAN status. However if it is not the first time an upstream cable line was not found in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step . Referring again to step if the router indicates an upstream connection then a second test is performed at step to determine Internet connectivity. If there is still no connection then a repair attempt may be made to repair the Internet connection. Once the repair attempt is complete another test is performed to determine if the repair was successful to restore Internet connectivity.

At step if the status calls still indicate there is no Internet connectivity then the status information received from the HNAP protocol call is evaluated at step to determine what type of Internet connection the router should have. Process may attempt to resolve at least three possible errors Double Network Address Translation double NAT Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE connection type and Media Access Control MAC address problem. In the case of a MAC address problem some cable Internet Service Providers ISPs may lock their Internet connection against one MAC address for an Internet connection. Therefore if the router is inserted between a computer with the particular MAC address and the ISP then the ISP will not recognize and communicate with the new router. Therefore if it is determined in step that the IP connection type is DHCP then flow passes to step to determine whether the network adapter of the computer began as a public IP address. If it did not then the problem is not a MAC address problem and a help screen may be displayed to the user in step . However if the adapter began as a public IP address then flow passes to step and the MAC address is cloned. Specifically the MAC address of the network adapter is copied to the router so that the ISP may continue to believe it is communicating with the original network adapter. Flow then passes to step where Internet connectivity is tested again.

Referring again to step if it is determined that the IP connection type is PPPoE then flow passes to step and a user interface screen is displayed to allow the user to enter their PPPoE credentials such as a username and password required by the particular ISP. Once these credentials have been entered they are pushed into the router in step and flow passes to step to test for Internet connectivity again.

Referring again to step if it is determined that the router is in a double NAT configuration then flow passes to step to set the router to another subnet. This could occur if a user connects the router to another router that is connected to the modem rather than connecting the router directly to the modem. NAT is a technique that hides an entire address space such as network addresses of devices connected to a private LAN behind a single IP address such as a public IP address assigned to a router connected to the LAN. In outgoing IP packets i.e. packets received from the devices connected to the router the router may use translation tables to map the hidden addresses of the originating devices into a single address which is written in the outgoing packets so that they appear to originate from the router. Incoming response packets are mapped back to the originating IP address using the translation tables. In one embodiment determining whether a double NAT configuration exists includes receiving a WAN IP address from the router and determining whether it is a loopback address e.g. 127.0.0.1 . If the router WAN IP address is the loopback address then there is a conflict on the router s default IP address e.g. 192.168.1.1 . The router is assumed to be connected upstream to another router and therefore in a double NAT configuration. In this scenario flow passes to step and the router being configured is set to another subnet e.g. 192.168.0.1 in order to avoid conflict with the upstream router. Flow then passes to step to perform another test for Internet connectivity. The communication with the router may in one embodiment be achieved using the HNAP protocol.

With reference to step if the IP connection type is something other than DHCP PPPoE or a double NAT connection then flow may pass to step where a help screen is displayed to assist the user in determining why there is no Internet connectivity. Similarly if the error processing for DHCP PPPoE and double NAT is performed and it is determined in step that there is still no Internet connectivity after testing for it in step then flow may pass to step where a help screen is displayed. It will be apparent that different help screens may be displayed depending on the particular Internet connection type and problems arising during the attempts to establish an Internet connection.

Once Internet connectivity has been established either the first time it was tested at step or at step or after various error processing has occurred a screen may be displayed in step such as the screen shown in indicating that the setup process is now setting up the router. Flow passes to where the configuration and setup is completed. A check may be performed at step to determine whether computer readable medium is a USB key. If a USB key is being used for the setup then in step the USB key may be updated with the wireless configuration settings and other information related to the router. At step network application and configuration settings file may be installed on the computer from computer readable medium which is inserted in or otherwise in communication with the computer. This installation enables a user to launch administrative tool component which is part of network application on the computer. In another embodiment network application or a separate administrative tool component may be downloaded from a web server and installed on the computer if the installation occurs after the network setup has been successfully completed and the computer has access to the Internet.

Referring to step of parental control options may be enabled on the router. In one embodiment the HNAP protocol may be used to provide settings to the router and to configure the router to communicate with a third party on another network such as for example the Internet. The third party may provide ratings and other information related to computer safety and content e.g. age appropriate content malware phishing pharming etc. for any URIs accessed by the router. When enabling the parental controls on the router in one example embodiment only the computer safety portion e.g. malware phishing pharming etc. is initially activated. After setup has been successfully completed however the user may then configure additional parental controls as desired. Thus during the router configuration and setup the router is configured with computer safety controls to minimize malware attacks e.g. viruses Trojans etc. without requiring any configuration settings or other substantive information from the user during the setup process.

With reference to step in guest access options may also be enabled on the router to allow authorized guests to access the Internet through the router on a separate guest network having a separate SSID and a separate wireless network password. Such a configuration could help minimize security risks for the host network when outsiders or guests are allowed access to the router. In one embodiment a guest network may be configured by dividing the wireless radio in half to get one physical radio and two soft radios. A new SSID and guest password may be generated for the guest network. This may be accomplished using HNAP protocol and the same API used to configure the SSID for the host network. In one embodiment the guest SSID will be the same as the host network SSID followed by guest and the guest password may be generated using the password generation algorithm used for generating the host network password. In one embodiment the configuration process of a guest network may be performed without any configuration settings or other substantive information being provided by the user setting up the host network. Accordingly a guest network is available for use as soon as the network setup has been successfully completed. After the guest access has been enabled in the router a screen may be displayed to the user indicating a successful setup has been completed as shown in .

Turning now to shows an example scenario of various stages of configuration settings file of during network application processing. Each of the various stages of the configuration settings file example scenario employs an XML encoded file format. Initial XML file shows a first stage of configuration settings file in the example scenario which may be stored on computer readable medium such as a USB key or a CD prior to configuring a network e.g. factory settings . The model name of the corresponding router to be configured may be encoded and the mode element DefaultMode may be set to Connect to indicate the state of computer readable medium . With no other encoded configuration settings the state is recognized as the Connect Mode for setup of a first computer. Thus when network application is launched and reads XML file it knows to execute setup component to configure a network with a router and a first computer.

Configured XML file is a second stage of configuration settings file in the example scenario which may be stored on computer readable medium or on a new computer readable medium provided by the user after a network has been configured with a first computer and a router. XML file may also be stored on the original or a new computer readable medium when a user launches administrative tool component after it has been installed on a computer as will be further discussed herein. Configured XML file may include a new wireless SSID a new wireless network password a new administrative password and the serial number of the router. The mode element is set to Connect and a setup indicator IsAlreadySetUp is set to true so that the state of computer readable medium will be recognized as Connect Mode for setup of an ncomputer where n 1. This mode indicates that a first computer has already been configured with the router and therefore when computer readable medium is inserted in a computer network application knows to execute connect computer component to configure a new computer to connect to the existing network.

Installed XML file is a third stage of configuration settings file in the example scenario which may be stored on the computer with administrative tool component which is part of network application . With the exception of the mode element the configuration settings in installed XML file may be the same as in configuration XML file . The mode element in installed XML file however is set to Tool to indicate that the computer has been successfully configured for connection to the router and administrative tool component has been installed as part of network application on the computer. Thus when network application is launched on the computer it knows to execute administrative tool component to provide users with the ability to configure administrative settings of the router and network or to add new computers or other devices to the network.

Turning now to is a high level flowchart that shows the visual flow of administrative tool component once it has been installed as part of network application on a computer. In one embodiment network application is launched by a user as shown in step . This may be accomplished by clicking on a corresponding icon or by selecting a file folder with a corresponding executable file and clicking on the executable file. When the user clicks on the corresponding icon or executable file network application is launched on the computer and may read configuration settings file which has also been stored on the computer. If the mode element of the configuration settings file is set to Tool then administrative tool component of network application begins.

In one example embodiment administrative tool component gains administrative access on the router through a browser administration webpage. Typically technology such as Basic Authentication requires an administrative username and password in order to gain access through the administration webpage so that router configurations and settings may be changed or otherwise modified. In one example embodiment however administrative tool component sends a command to the router telling the router to trust access from the computer on which administrative tool component is executing. The automatic access may be given for a specified period of time. This software to webpage transition enables administrative tool component on the computer to change or otherwise modify router configurations and settings as necessary to carry out the selections requested by the user e.g. connect computers or other devices guest access parental controls router settings without having to receive the administrative username or password from the user.

In step a screen is displayed with administrative tool options for a user to select such as the screen shown in . The user may select a Computers and Devices option as indicated in step and the user may be guided to connect additional computers and devices to the router as indicated in step . The user may select a Guest access option as indicated in step and the user may be guided to configure a guest access network to the router as indicated in step . The user may select a Parental controls option as indicated in step and the user may be guided to configure parental controls as indicated in step . The user may select a Router settings option and the user may be guided to configure router settings as indicated in step . In one embodiment after any option is selected and completed the flow may loop back to step to display the screen as shown in until the user opts to close or exit administrative tool component . In one embodiment administrative tool component will monitor the state of the network and help repair it upon noticing a problem e.g. lost Internet connection disrupted local wireless or wired network connection router down etc. .

Referring to is a flowchart showing a more detailed process of step to guide a user to connect computers and devices. In step a screen such as the screen shown in is displayed with computer and other electronic device options that a user may select to add to the local network and configured router. The user may select a Computer option as indicated in step and flow will pass to step where a screen will be displayed such as the screen shown in asking if the user has an Easy Setup Key. The user may select yes to proceed no to create a new USB key or I want to connect manually to connect a computer manually without the use of the USB key. At step it is determined which option the user selected from the screen in . If the user selected I want to manually connect then flow passes to step where the user may proceed to manually connect a new computer. However if the user chooses either the yes or no option in step i.e. the manually connect option was not selected then the user is guided to update create a new USB key in step . A screen may be displayed with pictures and instructions to insert the existing USB key or a new USB key into a USB port on the computer. Various error messages may be displayed for any USB key problems e.g. memory full incompatible format write protected etc. . After the USB key has been updated or created flow passes to step where a screen may be displayed such as the screen shown in with instructions for the user to add another computer to the network. The instructions include inserting the newly updated or created USB key into the new computer launching a connect component from the USB key following the instructions provided by the connect component and returning to the first computer and clicking the NEXT user interface control button on the current screen shown in and displayed on the first computer.

With reference again to step in if the user does not select Computer then flow passes to step to determine whether the user selected Wireless printer. If the user selected Wireless printer to add to the network then flow passes to step where a screen may be displayed to the user such as the screen shown in which provides router network and security settings needed to add a wireless printer to the network i.e. network name SSID security key and security type . The screen instructs the user to print the settings and use them to set up the wireless printer in accordance with the printer s documentation. The screen instructs the user to click the NEXT user interface control button on the current screen shown in and displayed on the first computer after the user has successfully connected the wireless printer to the network.

With reference again to step in if the user does not select Wireless printer then the user has selected Other Devices to add to the network and flow passes to step . In step a screen may be displayed to the user such as the screen shown in which provides router network and security settings needed to add a another device to the network i.e. network name SSID security key and security type . The screen instructs the user to print the settings and use them to set up the other device e.g. a smartphone a video game console or other wireless device in accordance with the device s documentation explaining how to connect the device to a wireless network. The screen instructs the user to click the NEXT user interface control button on the current screen shown in and displayed on the first computer after the user has successfully connected the wireless device to the network.

After the user has successfully connected a computer a wireless printer or other wireless device and the user has clicked the NEXT user interface control button on the associated screen displayed on the first computer flow passes to step where the operating system of the first computer polls the router for any new computers or other devices the router detects. In one embodiment the router provides the network names of any detected computers and other devices to administrative tool component . The detected computers and other devices are then compared to a file stored in the first computer containing identifiers of configured network computers and other devices to determine whether the router has detected anything new. If a new computer or device has been detected the new identifier is added to the file in the first computer and the router also stores information about the new computer or device. If a new device is not found in step then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether polling has reached a maximum time limit and if it has not flow loops back to step to continue polling to detect a new device in the network. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step .

Once a new computer or device has been found on the network and necessary information has been stored in the first computer and the router a screen may be displayed on the first computer such as the screen shown in allowing the user to name the new computer wireless printer or other wireless device. The name is stored in the first computer to allow the user to easily recognize the particular computer or other device. The name may also be used to assist the user when configuring administrative settings such as for example parental controls.

In another example embodiment any of the networked devices may be given simple human readable names e.g. Joe s Phone etc. by opening a browser on the particular device to be named. A simple word or phrase e.g. IdentifyMe etc. may be available for the router to capture a new name for the particular device. In this example once a user types IdentifyMe an HTML page may be sent to the device for the user to enter the new human readable name for the device. The router then matches the human readable name to the device so that the user can subsequently recognize the device when accessing the device through the network.

Referring now to is a flowchart illustrating a process for adding a new computer to a network previously configured using a system and method in accordance with the present disclosure. In one embodiment as shown in a computer readable medium such as a USB key which may have been updated or created as shown and described with reference to step of is used to connect the new computer. At step the user inserts the USB key into the new computer to be connected to the network. At step network application is launched from the USB key as previously described herein. If the mode element of configuration settings file on the USB key is Connect and the setup indicator is set to true the state of the USB key will be recognized as ready to configure a new computer for connection to the network using the settings encoded in configuration settings file on the USB key. Accordingly network application initiates connect computer component .

In step an operating system on the new computer may be used to search for available network adapters on the new computer. This search may be accomplished using operating system application programming interfaces APIs . In step a determination is made as to whether a wireless network adapter has been found. In one embodiment connect computer component may default to configuring a wireless connection even if the new computer includes both wired and wireless adapters. In addition although not specifically shown in if no adapters are found on the new computer then connect computer component will provide appropriate help and or error message screen displays to the user and no configuration steps will be taken until an adapter is found.

In one embodiment logic shown and described with reference to may be performed in the flow of . At step once a wireless adapter is found a determination may be made with respect to whether the wireless adapter is enabled and if necessary it may be automatically enabled. The determination and enablement may be accomplished using operating system APIs which may occur in the background without any user interaction. In one embodiment the software determines which adapter is the fastest and then enables that adapter.

Not shown in is logic to reconfigure a router if it has been reset or otherwise lost its configuration settings. The new computer may begin polling to find a router using the SSID stored on the USB key or other computer readable medium. If a router with the SSID is not found then the computer may begin polling to find any networking device within a wireless connectivity range. Once a networking device such as a router is found a determination may be made as to whether an SSID of the found router has a predetermined format e.g. CISCOXXXXX . If the SSID has the predetermined format then at least a portion of the identifier e.g. XXXXX may be compared to at least a portion of a serial number stored in the configuration settings file on the USB key or other computer readable medium. If the serial numbers match then appropriate steps of setup component as shown and described with reference to may be initiated to reconfigure the router.

In step a wireless profile may be created in the new computer. The wireless profile may be created using existing configuration settings from configuration settings file on the USB key. Configuration settings file may contain configuration settings such as those shown in example XML file which was shown and described with reference to . The wireless profile may include among other things the SSID and the network password which can be used by the operating system to establish a secure persistent wireless connection with the router.

With reference to step of after the wireless profile is created on the new computer the SSID stored in the profile may be used to begin polling to find the associated router in step . In one embodiment the polling may include using the operating system wireless APIs for detecting the SSID. If a wireless connection is not made in step e.g. the SSID is not found then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether polling has reached a maximum time limit and if it has not flow loops back to step to continue polling to find the router. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step . If the router is found and a wireless connection is made in step then flow passes to step where network application and configuration settings file may be installed on the new computer from the USB key inserted in or otherwise in communication with the new computer. This installation enables a user to launch administrative tool component which is part of network application on the new computer. In another embodiment network application or a separate administrative tool component may be downloaded from a web server and installed on the new computer if the installation occurs after the connection between the new computer and the router has been successfully completed and the new computer has access to the Internet. After network application and configuration settings file have been installed in the new computer a successful network connection screen may be displayed to the user on the new computer as shown in step .

With reference again to step in if a wireless adapter is not found then connect computer component may configure a wired network through a wired network adapter such as an Ethernet adapter on the new computer. The wired connection process may begin by determining in step whether the wired network adapter is enabled with Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP . If the wired network adapter is not DHCP enabled then in step the wired network adapter settings are configured to DHCP release renew. In step a screen such as the screen in may be displayed to the user with options for additional directions and pictorials on how to connect the new computer to the router.

Once the user finishes manually connecting the new computer to the router with a network cable the user may click the NEXT user interface control button. As shown in step in a check is performed to determine whether the computer has a network connection to the expected router identified in the configuration settings file on the USB key. If a network connection to the expected router is detected in step then flow passes to step and processing continues as previously described herein. However if it is determined that the new computer is not connected to the expected router in step then a time out procedure is used in steps and . In step a determination is made as to whether waiting for a connection to the expected router has reached a maximum time limit and if it has not flow loops back to step to continue checking whether connection has been made to the expected router. However if a maximum time limit has been reached in step then a display screen offering assistance to the user may be displayed in step .

In another embodiment for guest networks an option may be available for the authorized user to configure the guest network as a pay per use guest access model and or as an ad supported guest access model. For example a guest network may be made available to any outside users known or unknown to the authorized user of the host network within a wireless connectivity range of the router. In one implementation the outside user would be able to view the guest network in a list of available wireless networks whenever the outside user was within a wireless range of the router. Upon selecting the guest network the outside user could be prompted to send a request seeking authorization to access the guest network. The authorization request could be sent to an authorized user of the host network. If the authorized user approves the outside user to access the guest network then the outside user could be provided with the guest access password.

In a pay per use guest access model the outside user could be charged a fee for usage. In one embodiment the owner of the host network could have a dedicated account for receiving payments directly from such outside users. In another embodiment an intermediary billing and payment provider e.g. Paypal etc. could be used to process financial transactions between the owner of the host network and outside users. In an ad supported guest access model rather than receiving individual payments for access to the guest network advertisements could be used in guest networks. For example the login screen for the guest access network could contain various forms of advertisements. Thus outside users could use the guest network without charge but would become a captive audience for some advertisements during at least a portion of time spent accessing the guest network. In one embodiment the owner of the host network or any other authorized person could sell such advertisements and receive payment directly from the advertisers. Alternatively an Internet Service Provider ISP connected to the router could sell the advertisements. In this embodiment payment to the owner of the host network could be arranged in any number of mutually acceptable ways including for example as a deduction on a monthly bill from the ISP.

Turning now to illustrates an example display screen for an authorized user of a network such as network to configure and customize parental controls for any computers and other devices on the network. Parental controls screen shown in allows the authorized user to customize Internet access for each of the named computers or other devices on the network. For each named computer or other device on the network the authorized user may configure unlimited Internet access total Internet restriction or specified days and times of Internet restriction. In addition the authorized user may also block specific web sites. Although the screen in allows the authorized user to configure specific parental controls including specified time and content restrictions in one embodiment previously described herein the parental controls are enabled to prevent security threats e.g. malware as soon as the network setup has been successfully completed. This initial configuration with security threat protection may be accomplished without any configuration settings or other substantive information required from a user setting up the network.

Turning to illustrates an example display screen for an authorized user to configure and customize router settings for a router on a network such as network . Router settings screen in allows the authorized user to customize and change a network SSID and a network password to update or create a USB key with current configuration settings to configure alerts for potentially harmful websites before accessing such web sites and to access other options that may typically be selected by users with some knowledge of router configuration. For example one option available from the screen in is Advanced Settings. This option allows the user to manually make changes to the router from the existing administration webpage. In one embodiment when Advanced Settings is selected the user is not required to provide an administrative username and password because as previously described herein administrative tool component gains access from the computer to the router through the browser administration webpage for a specified period of time after administrative tool component is launched. Thus the authorized user may manually customize router settings after the network has been successfully setup by simply launching the administrative tool component on the computer and selecting Advanced Settings without needing to provide router access information such as the administrative username and password.

In accordance with the present disclosure embodiments of the system may include other screens to assist the setup and configuration of a network. For example help screens may include instructions for the user to try to remedy the particular problem e.g. wireless connection problem Internet connection problem etc. . Other help screens may suggest the user contact customer support and or technical support and may provide for example a phone number a web address or other method to contact the particular support team. During some processing a wait screen may be displayed to indicate that the system is currently processing. Screens may also be displayed when a particular connection that was previously established has been lost. Finally various screens navigating the user through administrative options such as parental controls guest access and router settings may also be displayed when needed.

In an alternative embodiment of the system and method for simplifying secure network setup computer readable medium may be configured to directly access router to provision a wireless network such as network shown in . For example computer readable medium in the form of a USB key may be plugged into router such that router provisions the USB key with certain configuration settings e.g. network identifier network password administrative password . Thus in this embodiment configuration settings are provided by router rather than a first computer used to provision a network with router . In such a case after router stores configuration settings on the USB key the USB key may then be used to configure a wireless connection between router and any suitable wireless devices to be added to the network. In addition the USB key may also contain administrative tool component which could be executed on a computer connected to router to assist a user in adding to the network other wireless and wired devices not adapted to receive USB input.

In certain example implementations the simplifying secure network setup activities outlined herein may be implemented in software which can be provided at various locations. In one example implementation this software or portions thereof is resident in one or more memory elements provided in a computer readable medium a computer sought to be configured for connection to a network and a router. In other examples the software of the system for simplifying secure network setup activities could involve a proprietary element e.g. as part of a network configuration and security solution which could be provided in or be proximate to these identified elements or be provided in any other device network adapter server network appliance console firewall switch information technology IT device distributed server etc. or be provided as a complementary solution e.g. in conjunction with parental controls or provisioned somewhere in the network. For example in the various embodiments described herein the software may be provisioned in a memory element of a wireless network adapter provided to a computer to enable wireless connection to a router as described herein. In such embodiments the wireless adapter may be configured to be plugged into a computer to provision a wireless network with the router or in an alternative embodiment may be configured to directly access the router to receive configuration settings prior to being plugged into the computer to provision the wireless network. In other embodiments the software features may be provided externally to these elements included in other devices to achieve these intended functionalities or consolidated in any appropriate manner. For example certain applications components or modules of the software could be separated and provided via another element such as a web server e.g. application tool component . In a general sense the arrangement depicted in may be more logical in its representation whereas a physical architecture for providing the system and method for simplifying secure network setup may include various other permutations combinations hybrids of these elements.

In some embodiments these elements e.g. computers other electronic devices router computer readable medium etc. may include software or reciprocating software that can coordinate manage or otherwise cooperate in order to achieve the simplifying secure network setup operations as outlined herein. One or all of these elements may also include any suitable algorithms hardware software components modules interfaces or objects that facilitate the operations thereof. In the implementation involving software such a configuration may be inclusive of logic encoded in one or more tangible media e.g. embedded logic provided in an application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor DSP instructions software potentially inclusive of object code and source code to be executed by a processor or other similar machine etc. . In some of these instances one or more memory elements as shown in can store data used for the operations described herein. This includes the memory element being able to store software logic code or processor instructions that are executed to carry out the activities described in this Specification. A processor can execute any type of instructions associated with the data to achieve the operations detailed herein in this Specification. In one example the processors as shown in could transform an element or an article e.g. data from one state or thing to another state or thing. In another example the activities outlined herein may be implemented with fixed logic or programmable logic e.g. software computer instructions executed by a processor and the elements identified herein could be some type of a programmable processor programmable digital logic e.g. a field programmable gate array FPGA an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or an ASIC that includes digital logic software code electronic instructions or any suitable combination thereof.

Any of these elements e.g. computer computing device electronic devices router etc. can include memory elements for storing information to be used in achieving the system for simplifying secure network setup activities as outlined herein. Additionally each of these devices may include a processor that can execute software or an algorithm to perform the secure network setup activities as discussed in this Specification. These devices may further keep information in any suitable memory element e.g. random access memory RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM ASIC etc. software hardware or in any other suitable component device element or object where appropriate and based on particular needs. Any of the memory items discussed herein e.g. computer readable medium computer memory router memory etc. should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term memory element. Similarly any of the potential processing elements modules and machines described in this Specification should be construed as being encompassed within the broad term processor. Each of the computers electronic devices network appliances routers modems servers etc. may also include suitable wireless or hardwired interfaces for receiving transmitting and or otherwise communicating data or information in a network environment.

Note that with the examples provided herein interaction may be described in terms of two three four or more network components e.g. computer readable medium router adapters computers electronic devices etc. . However this has been done for purposes of clarity and example only. It should be appreciated that the system could be consolidated in any suitable manner which is clearly within the broad scope of this Specification. In certain cases it may be easier to describe one or more of the functionalities of a given set of flows by only referencing a limited number of components or network elements. Therefore it should also be appreciated that the system of and its teachings is readily scalable. The system of can accommodate a larger number of components as well as more complicated or sophisticated arrangements and configurations. Accordingly the examples provided should not limit the scope or inhibit the broad teachings of the system of as potentially applied to other architectures.

It is also important to note that the operations described with reference to the preceding FIGURES illustrate only some of the possible scenarios that may be executed by or within the system and method in accordance with the present disclosure. Some of these operations may be deleted or removed where appropriate or these operations may be modified or changed considerably without departing from the scope of the discussed concepts. In addition the timing of these operations may be altered considerably and still achieve the results taught in this disclosure. The preceding operational flows have been offered for purposes of example and discussion. Substantial flexibility is possible in that any suitable arrangements chronologies configurations and timing mechanisms may be provided without departing from the teachings of the discussed concepts.

