---

title: MEMS oscillating magnetic sensor and method of making
abstract: A microelectromechanical system (MEMS) device for sensing a magnetic field comprising: a base; a cantilever attached to the base structure at a first end and movable at a second end, the second end oscillating at a predetermined frequency upon application of a current; a magnetic sensor attached to the movable second end; at least one flux concentrator mounted on the base adapted to transfer magnetic flux to the sensor; whereby when the current is applied, the oscillation of the cantilever causes the sensor to oscillate between the lines of flux transferred from the at least one flux concentrator resulting in the shift of the frequency of the sensed magnetic field to the predetermined frequency. The invention further comprises a method of making the MEMS device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08278919&OS=08278919&RS=08278919
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08278919
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100811
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

Generally most high sensitivity magnetic sensors used to measure magnetic field strength do not reach their full potential. The sensing technique utilized by high sensitivity magnetic sensors is typically hampered by noise constraints. A main component of this noise is 1 f noise also known as Flicker noise which is a signal or process with a frequency spectrum that lessens at higher frequencies. Pink noise patterns are also referred to as 1 f noise and are found in semiconductors music melodies atomic clocks and in nature including the sounds of wind and waterfalls. 1 f noise occurs in almost all electronic devices and results from a variety of effects. For applications where detection of low frequency phenomena is critical 1 f noise is a major problem. Thus there is a need to mitigate the effect of 1 f noise.

Interest is increasing in the development of miniature sensors for sensing magnetic fields such as for example extraterrestrial industrial biomedical oceanographic and environmental applications. The trend in magnetic sensor design and development is toward smaller size lower power consumption and lower cost for similar or improved performance.

Currently several types of magnetometers which are magnetic sensors with external instrumentation are in use. The least expensive and least sensitive devices have a resolution of approximately 10 1 Oersted Oe Hz1 2 and typically are Hall effect devices. These devices operate by sensing a voltage change across a conductor or semiconductor placed in a magnetic field. However such devices generally do not lend themselves for applications requiring greater sensitivity such as required for example in brain scan devices and magnetic anomaly detection devices.

Flux gate magnetometers are more sensitive than Hall effect devices having a resolution of approximately 10 6 Oe Hz1 2. Flux gate magnetometers use a magnetic core surrounded by an electromagnetic coil and are generally difficult to micro fabricate. Additionally flux gate magnetometers typically require a relatively large amount of power and accordingly do not lend themselves to a low cost compact portable design. Another way of increasing the sensed magnetic field by a magnetic sensor is by use of a flux concentrator which can enhance a sensed magnetic field by factor of 1.5 to as much as 100. Flux concentrators are described further in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 536 213 filed Aug. 5 2009 entitled MEMS DEVICE WITH SUPPLEMENTAL FLUX CONCENTRATOR and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 541 805 filed Aug. 14 2009 entitled MEMS DEVICE WITH TANDEM FLUX CONCENTRATORS AND METHOD OF MODULATING FLUX hereby incorporated by reference.

A magnetic sensor magnetometer which addresses 1 f type noise is taught in Hoenig U.S. Pat. No. 4 864 237 issued Sep. 5 1989 the complete disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference. Hoenig teaches an apparatus for measuring magnetic fields which change only at extremely low frequency. Hoenig uses a SQUID superconducting quantum interference detectors magnetometer which includes a superconducting flux transformer that inductively couples a detected signal into a DC SQUID sensor. The magnetometer of Hoenig may include a device for modulating the detected signal in a frequency range characteristic of low noise operation of the SQUID. The modulation frequencies are generally above 1 Hz and optionally even above 1 Khz. However the limitations of this device and others like it include the need for a cryogenic operation which inherently does not lend to relatively low cost low power use. Although SQUIDS are more sensitive magnetometers having a resolution of approximately 10 10 Oe Hz1 2 because SQUIDS include a superconducting element these apparatus typically must include cooling means at liquid gas temperatures making them extremely bulky and expensive to operate. Also their relatively large size generally limits their utility because the active superconducting element cannot be placed directly adjacent to the source of the magnetic field. As such it is common in magnetic sensors to place the sense element between two stationary flux concentrators to enhance the field. See for example U.S. application Ser. No. 12 536 213 filed Aug. 5 2009 entitled MEMS DEVICE WITH SUPPLEMENTAL FLUX CONCENTRATOR and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 541 805 filed Aug. 14 2009 entitled MEMS DEVICE WITH TANDEM FLUX CONCENTRATORS AND METHOD OF MODULATING FLUX hereby incorporated by reference.

Furthermore magnetic sensors used to detect objects that move slowly typically possess considerably low frequency 1 f type noise which is an unwanted condition. Generally there is a tendency for such devices which have higher sensitivity to also exhibit higher 1 f type noise. This type of noise generally occurs when using magnetoresistive type magnetic sensors.

Another problem arising with magnetic sensor usage occurs when detecting change in a signal due to the influence of a magnetic field. The signal change may be small relative to a background signal or signals referred to herein as the DC offset. For example in spin valve giant magnetoresistor sensors the change is approximately 5 10 . For anisotropic magnetoresistance sensors the measurable change is even smaller. Extracting the measured signal from the DC offset requires using carefully constructed bridges and other techniques. A way of increasing the magnetic field is by use of a flux concentrator which can enhance a sensed magnetic field by as much as a factor of 50. See e.g. N. Smith et al. IEEE Trans. Magn. 33 p. 3358 1997 the complete disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference. An example of such a device is taught in Popovic et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 942 895 issued Aug. 24 1999 entitled Magnetic field sensor and current and or energy sensor the complete disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference which teaches the use of Hall effect sensors with flux concentrator components.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 185 541 issued Feb. 2 2010 hereby incorporated by reference entitled MEMS Structure Support and Release Mechanism discloses a MEMS device and method comprising inter alia a MEMS structure adjacent to a SOI base a sacrificial support operatively connecting the base to the MEMS structure a suspension member operatively connecting the base to the MEMS structure. An embodiment in U.S. Pat. No. 7 655 996 further comprises a current pulse generator adapted to send a current pulse through the sacrificial support wherein the current pulse causes the sacrificial support to detach from the MEMS structure.

In U.S. Pat. No. 7 046 002 a flux concentrator system is disclosed wherein the flux concentrators focus the magnetic field lines at the sensor location. The flux concentrators are free to move driven by a comb drive thus modulating the field at the position of the sensor. When the frequency of oscillation is in the kilohertz range low frequency signals of interest that are normally obscured by the 1 f noise which dominates at low frequencies are effectively shifted to higher frequencies where 1 f noise is significantly lower. The sensor is stationary the flaps oscillate and comb drives and silicon springs are required.

A preferred embodiment of the invention comprises a microelectromechanical system MEMS device comprising a base structure a magnetic sensor operatively associated with the base structure and operable for sensing a magnetic field and allowing for a continuous variation of an amplification of the magnetic field at a position at the magnetic sensor. The magnetic sensor is operatively associated with a cantilever which is driven by an AC modulation voltage to provide for oscillation of the magnetic sensor wherein the AC modulation voltage shifts the operating frequency of the magnetic sensor to increase the operating frequency to eliminate 1 f type noise where f is a frequency of operation of the magnetic sensor. At least one flux concentrator is operatively associated with the magnetic sensor Moreover according to the invention the magnetic sensor comprises one of a Hall effect type sensor a magnetoresistive sensor a MEMS sensor a magneto diode a magnetotransistor a MAGFET a fluxgate a miniature fluxgate magnetometer a SQUID and a magneto optical sensor. Additionally each flux concentrator may comprise a layer of a hard magnetic material a spacer layer and a layer of a soft magnetic material wherein the layer of soft magnetic material comprises single domain magnetic particles and a nonmagnetic material wherein a coercivity of the hard magnetic material is greater than approximately 50 Oersteds and a coercivity of the soft magnetic material is less than approximately 3 Oersteds and wherein a volume fraction of single domain magnetic particles to nonmagnetic material is less than or equal to approximately fifty percent.

An embodiment of the present invention is directed to a simplified design which reduces fabrication issues and costs while achieving the desired result of reducing 1 f noise. In a preferred embodiment the MEMS flux concentrators are stationary relative to the support structure while the sensor is oscillated. In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a cantilever is positioned such that a sensor at its tip is located between the flux concentrators. The cantilever is set to oscillate in the kilohertz range thus bringing the sensor in and out of the focused by the flux concentrators flux lines resulting in a shifting of the signal of interest into the kilohertz range. Although the kilohertz range is specified the invention is not limited to the kilohertz range.

A preferred embodiment comprises a microelectromechanical system MEMS device comprising a base structure a cantilever structure comprising a first end attached to the base structure at the first end and an unattached second end opposite of the first end a magnetic sensor attached to the second end and sensing a magnetic field allowing for a continuous variation of an amplification of the magnetic field at a position at the magnetic sensor and receiving a DC voltage and an AC modulation voltage in the MEMS device a pair of stationary platforms coupled to the base structure and a pair of flux concentrators wherein each flux concentrator may be stationary and coupled to a corresponding stationary platform.

In such a system the magnetic sensor may oscillate. Moreover the magnetic sensor may oscillate in a kilohertz range. In addition the magnetic sensor may oscillate in and out of flux lines created between the pair of flux concentrators. Furthermore voltage requirements of the magnetic sensor in air may be between 5 and 15 volts. Additionally the magnetic sensor may optionally be positioned between flux concentrators such as those disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 536 213 filed Aug. 5 2009 entitled MEMS DEVICE WITH SUPPLEMENTAL FLUX CONCENTRATOR and U.S. application Ser. No. 12 541 805 filed Aug. 14 2009 entitled MEMS DEVICE WITH TANDEM FLUX CONCENTRATORS AND METHOD OF MODULATING FLUX hereby incorporated by reference. Moreover the magnetic sensor may oscillate in a kilohertz range and shift a signal of interest concentrated by the flux concentrators into the kilohertz range.

In addition the magnetic sensor may comprise a Hall effect type sensor a magnetoresistive sensor a MEMS sensor a magneto diode a magneto transistor a MAGFET a fluxgate a miniature fluxgate magnetometer a SQUID or a magneto optical sensor. Moreover the AC modulation voltage may shift the operating frequency of the magnetic sensor. Additionally each flux concentrator may comprise a structural material layer and magnetic material layer. Furthermore the structural material layer may comprise at least one of silicon polysilicon and silicon on insulator SOI . In addition the magnetic material layer may comprise at least one of a magnetically soft material and a multilayer stack of a high permeability material and a spacer material. The magnetic material may also comprise single domain magnetic particles and a nonmagnetic material.

Another preferred embodiment herein provides a microelectromechanical system MEMS device comprising a semiconductor substrate a cantilever structure comprising a first end attached to the semiconductor substrate as shown for example in . The magnetic sensor may be attached to the second end allowing for a continuous variation of an amplification of the magnetic field. The MEMS device receives a DC voltage and an AC modulation voltage such that the AC modulation voltage shifts the operating frequency of the magnetic sensor such that the magnetic sensor oscillates in a kilohertz range. The signal to be detected is essentially shifted to a higher frequency due to the sensor on the cantilever oscillating in and out of the flux line concentration area between stationary flux concentrators. Stationary platforms coupled to the semiconductor substrate may be used to provide support for the flux concentrators that flank the magnetic sensor.

A further embodiment herein provides a method of fabricating a microelectromechanical system MEMS device comprising providing a semiconductor wafer depositing an insulating layer on the semiconductor wafer depositing a first metal electrode on the insulating layer depositing a lead zirconate titanate PZT layer on the first metal electrode depositing a second metal electrode on the PZT layer depositing a magnetic sensor on the second metal electrode etching the semiconductor layer to create a cantilever structure extending from the semiconductor wafer wherein the cantilever structure comprises a tip and removing the magnetic sensor from all parts of the microelectromechanical device except the tip of the cantilever structure.

According to such a method depositing the PZT layer may comprise using a sol gel technique. Moreover etching the semiconductor wafer may form a pair of stationary platforms flanking the cantilever structure. In addition each stationary platform may comprise a flux concentrator. Furthermore only the cantilever structure may be movable. Additionally each flux concentrator comprises a structural material layer and a magnetic material layer.

Although the oscillating magnetic sensor may be mounted to a cantilever as described herein the invention is not limited to the sensor being mounted to a cantilever as the sensor may be mounted to a variety of oscillating structures without departing from the scope of the present invention. Moreover although the at least one flux concentrator is described as stationary the at least one flux concentrator may be subjected to movement relative to the base without departing from the scope of the present invention. The relative movement between the flux concentrator and the sensor is the operative factor which determines the shift in frequency of the sensed magnetic signal.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein include an improved MEMS cantilever flux concentrator which provides a greater dynamic range of motion to allow for larger modulation and more space for a magnetic sensor. In addition while conventional flux concentrators are designed to operate within a narrow range of frequencies embodiments herein provide a MEMS cantilever flux concentrator structure that can have large amplitudes of motion when any frequency is applied thereto. Moreover the embodiments herein provide robust manufacturing features for example sensitive components e.g. a magnetic sensor described below are not exposed to harsh environments e.g. hydrofluoric acid during manufacturing and component complexity is reduced thereby improving efficiency e.g. a stationary flux concentrator described below . This in turn simplifies the manufacturing of the embodiments described herein. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there are shown preferred embodiments.

The thicknesses of the layers and the relative sizes may vary depending upon application without departing from the scope of the present invention. The various structures of MEMS flux concentrator device illustrated are not shown to scale and the dimensions of the various structures may be exaggerated to better illustrate the relationship between the shown structures.

As shown in the portions forming the flux concentrators comprise above contact layer an insulating layer and a soft magnetic material layer . The magnetic layer of the flux concentrators are positioned such that when the cantilever is in an intermediate position i.e. midway between the two farthest positions of oscillatory travel the magnetic sensor and magnetic layer as substantially in alignment i.e. as depicted in substantially in the same plane that is perpendicular to the surface of the paper .

As shown in cantilever may include the followings layers wafer insulating layer a first electrode layer PZT layer and a second electrode layer. Sections of the insulating layer has been removed to allow oscillation In addition tip is a portion of cantilever . As shown in tip may include a magnetic sensor layer.

In a preferred MEMS flux concentrator device magnetic field magnetic sensor may be for example a Hall effect device magnetoresistive or magnetorestrictive type magnetic sensor. Magnetic flux concentrators shown in are provided to strengthen the magnetic field at the position of magnetic sensor . Accordingly the concentrated magnetic field is greatest when magnetic sensor is substantially aligned with flux concentrators . In one embodiment herein stationary flux concentrators further includes a deposition of a soft magnetic layer as described below and shown in .

The dimensions of stationary flux concentrators may have dimensions of approximately 100 by 75 microns while the thickness of stationary flux concentrator may be approximately 0.1 to 15 micrometers. As shown in electrode pads may be deposited underneath cantilever . Furthermore a matching electrode pad may be deposited on substrate wafer . Electrical connections to electrode pads may be made by coating wafer e.g. a silicon substrate with a conductor not shown . The electrical connection to bottom electrode pads may also be made by a conductor not shown . While not shown electrode pads provide electrical connections that lead to layers respectively. In an alternative embodiment electrical connection to layers are established by creating contact points not shown at the stationary end pivot fulcrum of cantilever . Additionally those skilled in the art would understand that other techniques could be used to establish electrical connection to layers . Moreover application of electricity e.g. an AC voltage causes cantilever to oscillate at tip as described above.

In the embodiments of MEMS cantilever flux concentrator device shown in the oscillating motion of cantilever tip is driven electrostatically e.g. using electrode pads at a frequency f by applying an AC voltage from a signal generator not shown . In one embodiment herein driving the motion from the signal generator requires very little power particularly if the drive frequency is set equal to the mechanical resonant frequency of cantilever . Moreover cantilever tip can have large amplitudes of motion at any frequency applied. By using the resonant frequency it is possible to obtain the largest amplitudes for the oscillations using the least power. The magnetic field generated by the small currents of the exciting electrostatic modulating signal is negligible.

Magnetic sensor may comprise a Hall effect device wherein four leads are required. Other types of Hall effect devices which typically have a rectangular geometry with current or voltage electrodes arranged on each side of a rectangle may also be used. It is also possible to use Hall effect devices in which three or all four electrodes are arranged on one side of the rectangle.

When a Hall effect device is used an output voltage from such a device results from the Lorentz force of the magnetic field acting on charge carriers within such a device. Other types of magnetic sensors include fluxgate magnetometers and magnetoresistive sensors that include anisotropic magnetoresistive sensors giant magnetoresistive sensors spin dependent tunneling sensors bismuth sensors magnetorestrictive sensors and MEMS sensors and the like.

When magnetic sensor is a magnetoresistive element a Wheatstone electrical bridge configuration not shown may be used to interface with the magnetic sensor . When the resistance of the magnetoresistive element changes because of a magnetic field the Wheatstone electrical bridge output voltage changes. Using flux concentrators increases the change in the Wheatstone electrical bridge output. The Wheatstone electrical bridge output voltage is modulated at a frequency 2f typically the resonant frequency of cantilever . The signal may then be amplified by a narrow band amplifier and then demodulated. The bandwidth of the amplifier only has to be sufficiently broad to include the low frequencies in the original signal coming into the MEMS cantilever flux concentrator device . The range of frequencies should preferably be approximately 1 to 50 kHz. The embodiments herein allow a variation of the amplification of the magnetic field at the position of magnetic sensor . Thus if the field would saturate magnetic sensor the amplification can be decreased. It is not important to vary the amplification continuously but it is desirable to be able to change the sensitivity in steps. Thus it is possible to avoid having the signal be too small to detect with a reasonable signal to noise ratio or so large that it saturates the device .

Flux concentrators may be constructed in multiple layers. In one embodiment illustrated in layers of flux concentrator may comprise a hard magnetic material having a coercivity greater than 50 Oersteds layer and a soft magnetic material having a coercivity less than 5 Oersteds layer with equal magnitude magnetizations separated by a spacer layer . Spacer layer may comprise a nonmagnetic material such as aluminum or silicon dioxide. The structure of layers and may be constructed as described in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 7 046 002 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The volume fraction of single domain magnetic particles to the nonmagnetic material may be up to approximately 50 . Domain rotation generates much less noise compared to domain wall motion. Moreover it is still desirable that the magnetizations of the soft magnetic material and the hard magnetic material cancel in the absence of an external field.

A design may be used wherein the edges of flux concentrators are modified to decrease the magnetic noise by treating the edges of the soft magnetic material of flux concentrators so that they have slightly higher coercivity than the center. This improves the magnetic response. The rest of MEMS cantilever flux concentrator device preferably includes a similar three layer structure with similar arrangement of the magnetizations as described above. The directions of the magnetization may be obtained by processing the flux MEMS cantilever flux concentrator device in a magnetic field.

As mentioned one embodiment herein achieves displacements by oscillating cantilever structure between flux concentrators . When magnetic sensor is above or below the plane of the flux concentrators the enhancement is decreased at the position of magnetic sensor . By doing so the change in sensitivity of magnetic sensor to an external field may be varied by as much a factor of twenty. The sensitivity can be calibrated using a known magnetic field that can be part of the magnetic sensor . It is desirable to control the sensitivity so that the signal noise ratio is good or that magnet sensor is not saturated.

The embodiments herein allow for a variable gain to increase the dynamic range by applying a DC voltage. In addition applying an AC modulation voltage at a frequency fmodulates the signal seen by the sensor at 2f. This has the effect of shifting the low frequency signal of interest to higher frequencies where the 1 f noise is smaller.

Driving the motion from the signal generator requires very little power particularly if the drive frequency is set equal to the mechanical resonant frequency of the cantilever . By using the resonant frequency one obtains the largest amplitudes for the oscillations using the least power. The magnetic field generated by the small currents of the exciting electrostatic modulating signal is negligible. Magnetic sensor may comprise a Hall effect device wherein four leads are required. Other types of Hall effect devices which typically have a rectangular geometry with current or voltage electrodes arranged on each side of a rectangle may also be used. It is also possible to use Hall devices in which three or all four electrodes are arranged on one side of the rectangle. See e.g. Falk et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 057 890 issued Oct. 15 1991 the complete disclosure of which is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described herein are preferably fabricated by MEMS processing techniques. Such techniques are addressed by LIGA Lithographie Galvanoformung Abformung for lithography electroplating molding micromachining processing methods that use metals polymers and even ceramics for the production of varied microstructured devices having extreme precision. These collective microstructures are referred to as MEMS type devices which are alternatives to conventional discrete electromechanical devices such as relays actuators and sensors. When properly designed MEMS type devices produce useful forces and displacement while consuming reasonable amounts of power.

Current LIGA processes create features whose top surface is as much as 200 microns above the substrate. Any technology may be used to form the device whether a LIGA type process or a bulk plasma micromachining technique such as reactive ion etching RIE or a surface micromachining technique using standard photolithography and etching processes yielding the desired configurations. Preferably each MEMS flux concentrator device is fabricated on a die which in an extreme case might be as large as one square centimeter but is more likely to be less than on square millimeter in area and approximately 0.5 to 50 microns thick.

In addition each device may be implemented on a single silicon chip or die but multiple dies may also be used. In a preferred embodiment the device is monolithic in its basic configuration. MEMS devices may be readily integrated and interfaced with electronics because they are fabricated much the same way as integrated circuits. The specific MEMS fabrication technique requires only desired geometries and mechanical and electrical performance characteristics are obtained.

As used herein the terminology 1 f noise means the same as Flicker noise which is a signal or process with a frequency spectrum that lessens at higher frequencies and or pink noise.

As used herein the terminology cantilever means either A a projecting structure such as a beam that is supported at one end and carries a load at the other end or along its length or B a member such as a beam that projects beyond a fulcrum and is supported by a balancing member or a downward force behind the fulcrum.

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

