---

title: Automated mobile intelligent communication processing system
abstract: A system and method for providing enhanced information to a mobile communication device regarding a calling device is described. The system and method includes receiving an incoming call request at a mobile communication device including the identifier of the calling device. An information request is then formulated including the identifier of the calling device. The information request is transmitted from the mobile communication device to the query processing center via a data communication channel. A response is then obtained from the data processing center and transmitted to the mobile phone via the data communication channel. The response received from the data processing center includes the requested information related to the calling device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08457613&OS=08457613&RS=08457613
owner: Neustar Information Services, Inc.
number: 08457613
owner_city: Sterling
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
This invention relates to mobile communication services and to a system and method for providing enhanced information to mobile devices and to providing information regarding a party communicating with a mobile communication device.

Since the beginning of civilization there has been an interest in acquiring information of human traffic to and from a territory. This is illustrated by watch towers peep holes in doors and other devices used to gather information on an unannounced caller for example. Over the last 50 years telephone networks have been used as a source of obtaining information about people. For example in the United States PSTN Public Switched Telephone Network has evolved from operators announcing callers to more automated systems like ANI automatic Number Identification Caller ID CNAM National Caller Name and CNAP Calling Name Presentation that provide information about a caller to a called party.

Wireless programmable communication devices such as mobile phones PDAs including Mobile PCs the RIM BlackBerry the Apple iPhone and personal mobile devices such as laptop computers and the Apple iPad are used in conjunction with communication networks to provide caller identification information for example telephone number IP address or e mail address. The caller identification information can be stored on a database for example address books of the wireless programmable communication devices. A network passed id of the caller device can be used to access the database stored on the mobile devices for accessing information on previous or known callers who can now be identified by name picture or other identifiers means that is less cryptic than the telephone number or the network address id of the caller device.

Several milestones in the telecommunications industry for example the breakup of AT T in 1984 further deregulation due to the Telecom Act of 1996 and the recent proliferation of multiple network types have resulted in a failure to provide adequate information about a calling party to a called party. Several new carriers and new service providers have evolved with varying technology and standards such that the information available to the called party about the calling party via their carrier or network provider is currently not always available and varies in quality.

Today from a practical perspective the information available to a called party related to a calling party is a function of both parties devices carriers service providers type of networks as well as the direct or indirect business relationship between the calling party s carrier service provider and the called party s carrier service provider.

Accordingly there is a need for a system method for a smart device with a network connection to identify a calling party that goes beyond information stored on the device stored on their device and independent of information that that can only be licensed from their carrier and or network service provider.

The present invention includes methods apparatuses and systems as described in the written description and claims. Systems and methods are provided for providing enhanced information about a party sending a communication to a mobile device such as a mobile telephone or other mobile communication device. For example enhanced caller information can be provided about callers placing an incoming call to the mobile device. In another example information about a party sending a text message email or other electronic communication to a mobile device can be obtained and displayed on the mobile device.

In one embodiment a method for providing enhanced information to a mobile communication device regarding a calling device is provided. The method includes receiving an incoming call request at a mobile communication device including an identifier of the calling party formulating a query for information related to the calling party that includes the identifier of the calling party determining whether a communication channel is available to transmit the query for information to query processing server via the communication channel and transmitting the information request from the mobile communication device to the query processing server via an available communication channel if a communication channel is available. The method further comprises storing the query for information in a data store on the mobile communication device if the communication channel is unavailable monitoring the communication channel until the communication channel becomes available transmitting the information request from the mobile communication device to the query processing server via the communication channel when the communication channel becomes available and receiving a response including the requested information related to the calling party at the mobile communication device via the communication channel. According to some embodiments the query can be stored on the mobile device regardless of whether the channel is unavailable and in some embodiments the stored query information can be used to generate reporting and statistical information.

According to another embodiment a method of providing enhanced information to a mobile communication device regarding a calling device wherein the mobile communication device receives the identifier of a calling device is provided. The method includes receiving a request for information from a mobile communication device over a communication channel the request including an identifier of a calling device accessing a local database and obtaining information related to the request using the identifier of the calling device determining whether additional information is required from one or more remote third party data sources requesting information related to the request from one or more remote third party data sources receiving response information from the one or more remote third party data sources if additional information is required correlating the response information from the third party data stores with information retrieved from the local database to generate a response to the request for information from the mobile communication device and transmitting the response to the request for information to the mobile communication device via the communication channel. In an embodiment the communication channel can be a data channel while in other embodiments the communication channel can be a voice channel and in yet other embodiments the communications channel can be a voice and data channel.

According to yet another embodiment an automated mobile intelligent call processing device is provided. The device includes a telephony controller an application programming interface API module a data controller a query module and an off call query module. The telephony controller is configured to receive an incoming call request from a calling device. The API module is configured to obtain notification of the incoming call request including the identifier of the calling device to generate and forward the notification. The data controller is configured to establish and maintain communication via a communication channel. In an embodiment the communication channel can be a data channel while in other embodiments the communication channel can be a voice channel and in yet other embodiments the communications channel can be a voice and data channel. The query module is coupled to the data controller and is configured to receive the notification from the API module to formulate an information request including the identifier of the calling device to establish a connection with the data controller to transmit the information request via the communication channel and to receive the obtained requested information via the communication channel the obtained requested information including customized information related to the calling device. The off call query module is coupled to the query module and configured to receive the identifier of the calling device from the query module if the communication channel was unavailable for transmitting the information request to monitor the communication channel for availability and to transmit the information request via the communication channel when the communication channel becomes available to receive the requested information via the communication channel and to store the requested information in a caller information data store.

According to yet another embodiment an automated mobile intelligent call processing system is provided. The system includes a storage device an information gateway module and information application module and a communication module. The storage device is used for storing records associated with multiple identifiers. The information gateway is coupled to the storage device and is configured to receive a request for information from a mobile communication device over a communication channel. In an embodiment the communication channel can be a data channel while in other embodiments the communication channel can be a voice channel and in yet other embodiments the communications channel can be a voice and data channel. The request includes an identifier of a calling device. The information application module is coupled to the storage device and is configured to receive the identifier from the information gateway module to access the storage device to obtain the requested information to make a determination whether to access additional information from at least one third party data server and to access the at least one third party data server if the information application module determines that additional information is necessary to satisfy the request for information. The information application module is further configured to correlate the information from the storage device and the at least one third party data server to generate the requested information. The communication module is coupled to the information application module and is configured to transmit the requested information relating to the calling device via the communication channel.

According to yet another embodiment a method for providing enhanced information to a mobile device regarding a party to a communication with the mobile communication device is provided. The method includes receiving an incoming communication at the mobile device the incoming communication including an identifier of the party sending the communication to the mobile device formulating a query for information related to the party sending the communication that includes the identifier of the party determining whether a communication channel is available to transmit the query for information to query processing server transmitting the information request from the mobile communication device to the query processing server via the communication channel if the communication channel is available storing the query for information in a data store on the mobile device if the communication channel is unavailable monitoring the data communication channel until the communication channel becomes available transmitting the information request from the mobile device to the query processing server via the communication channel when the communication channel becomes available and receiving a response including the requested information related to the party sending the communication at the mobile device via the communication channel.

According to yet another embodiment a method of providing enhanced information to a mobile device regarding a party to a communication with the mobile communication device. The method includes receiving a request for information from a mobile device over a communication channel the request including an identifier of a contact for whom information is desired accessing a local database and obtaining information related to the contact using the identifier from the request determining whether additional information is required from one or more remote third party data sources requesting information related to the contact from the one or more remote third party data sources if additional information is required receiving response information from the one or more remote third party data sources correlating the response information from the third party data stores with information retrieved from the local database to generate a response to the request for information from the mobile device and transmitting the response to the request for information to the mobile device via the communication channel.

Other features and advantages of the present invention will become more readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art after reviewing the following detailed description and accompanying drawings.

After reading this description it will become apparent to one skilled in the art how to implement the invention in various alternative embodiments and alternative applications. Although various embodiments of the present invention are described herein it is understood that these embodiments are presented by way of example only and not limitation. As such this detailed description of various alternative embodiments should not be construed to limit the scope or breadth of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims.

In one aspect a system and method for providing enhanced information to a mobile device is provided. is a high level network diagram illustrating an example communication system according to an embodiment. In general one embodiment of the wireless system includes a mobile or wireless device a calling device a network a query server a wireless base station and storage device . The mobile device communicates with the query server via a wireless base station and a network . The network can be a combination of multiple communication networks.

The mobile device can be any sort of mobile communication device with the ability to communicate within the wireless communication network . The mobile device may also include a persistent storage area. For example the mobile device may be a mobile phone a personal digital assistant PDA a portable computer with wireless connectivity e.g. a laptop computer or any other device configured for wireless communication. Calling device can be any sort of device with the ability to communicate within the communication network and initiate a call with the mobile device . For example the calling device can be a mobile device a wired computer or a plain old telephone.

The mobile device and the wireless base station can communicate by sending packets of information back and forth. Communications between the mobile device and the wireless base station can be governed by one or more protocols or standards such as Personal Communication Services PCS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Wireless Fidelity WiFi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Bluetooth Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP Wireless VOIP Session Initiation Protocol SIP and other future protocols or standards for example Long Term Evolution LTE . In one embodiment the mobile device has the ability to communicate over a telephony channel or voice communication channel and a data communication channel at the same time. In some embodiments a single network can be utilized to carry voice and data information. Thus the mobile device can communicate both voice and data information over the single network at the same time.

Query server can be implemented as a single computer or as a plurality of servers logically arranged. The multiple servers can be located in different locations and may support multiple protocols such as an ASCII GET data protocol SS7 protocol web services protocol Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP Wireless VOIP Session Initiation Protocol SIP and other protocols. In the illustrated embodiment query server is coupled with a data storage area or system . The function of the query server is preferably to receive requests or queries from the mobile device and respond to those requests or queries by providing the mobile device with information.

Third party data server can also be implemented as a computer or a plurality of servers. The multiple servers can be located in different locations and may support multiple protocols such as an ASCII GET data protocol SS7 protocol web services protocol Voice Over Internet Protocol VOIP Wireless VOIP Session Initiation Protocol SIP and other protocols. In the embodiment illustrated in the third party data server is coupled with a data storage area or storage system . In an embodiment the query server can be configured to send requests for information to and receive information from the third party data server . According to an embodiment the third party data server can be an Internet based information service provider such as an online phone directory a commercial information provider a government or public information provider and or other type of third party public or private information provider. For example the third party information provider could be a government website or data store that includes publicly available information that includes phone numbers. This information can be correlated with a caller s number or other information such as a name address other identifying information that can be extracted from a communication to obtain information about the caller. In some embodiments the third party data server can be a social networking site such as FACEBOOK MYSPACE BEBO or other social networks that allow access to their users information. In an embodiment the query server could initiate a search of the Internet or another public network for a caller s phone number or other identifying information and extract information about the caller from the search results. In some embodiments the query server can be configured to request information from multiple third party data server and to correlate the information received from the multiple data sources into a set of information that can be provided to the called mobile device .

In an embodiment the mobile device can be configured to place and or to receive calls and to send and or to receive other types of communications. For example the mobile device can be configured to send and receive communications various types of communications such as Short Message Server SMS messages or other types of text messages email messages Multimedia Message Services MMS messages for sending multimedia content to and from mobile devices and other types of messaging service messages such as messages to and from social networking sites.

For example in one embodiment the mobile device can receive a call from the calling device . The call is transmitted and processed by the network for example a telecommunications network including a Local Exchange Carrier LEC network and Long Distance Carrier LDC network. When the call is initiated by the calling device the calling device identification information or source identification number for example the caller s telephone number can be determined by the network . The caller s telephone number can be determined through a process called Automatic Number Identification ANI which the network for example a telecommunications network automatically performs when a caller initiates a call.

In an embodiment the mobile device receives a call signal or call initiation signal from base station which includes the calling device identification information or number e.g. telephone number . The mobile device then transmits a query to the query server . The query includes the calling device identification information or identifier. In response the query server processes the query and transmits information to the mobile device . The information received by the mobile device can be displayed on the mobile device . The information transmitted by the query server can be for example the caller s name. In an embodiment the information is received before the call is answered at the mobile device .

In other embodiments the mobile device can be triggered to query for information based on other types of communications such as text or SMS messages email VOIP calls and or other types of communications to store this information in a contact data store on the mobile device and to display this additional information to a user of the mobile device . For example mobile device can be configured to query for additional information such as a caller name and picture of the caller in response to an incoming VOIP call. In a typical VOIP telephony application only the username of the calling party is displayed to the recipient of the call. In another example the mobile device can be configured to query for additional information such as a telephone number of a sender of an email when an incoming email is received. The mobile device can be configured to query for various information based on user preference in response to various types of communications being received at or initiated at the mobile device . Some exemplary embodiments are discussed in detail below.

In some embodiments the mobile device can be coupled to the network via both a voice communication channel and a data communication channel. In those embodiments the network can include a telephony network and the internet. The voice communication channel can be a channel i.e. a communication link or circuit suitable for the transmission of speech data such as a cellular telephone communication channel. The data communication channel can be a communication channel or circuit provided for the exchange of data. The mobile device can communicate with the query server via the data communication channel. In some embodiments the query server has no connection to the voice communication channels. Thus the incoming call may be received via a telecommunications network and a query or request from the mobile device can be transmitted over a second network link for example the data communication channel including the internet to the query server . In other embodiments the mobile device can use a single network to carry voice and data.

According to some embodiments the configuration of the module device and or the network can prevent the mobile device from being able to communicate on both the data communication channel and the voice communication channels simultaneously. For example in CDMA based networks currently cannot handle simultaneous voice and data connections. In an environment where the mobile device cannot use simultaneous voice and data connections the mobile device is prevented from communicating with the query server when an incoming call is being received and thus the mobile device cannot submit a query to the query server to obtain information about the caller. According to an embodiment the mobile device can be configured include a query data store for storing queries to the query server until a data connection can be established. Once a data connection can be established the mobile device can submit the query to the query server . The mobile device can then store the information provided by the query server in response to the query in a caller information data store that can be used to identify a caller the next time that the party places a call to the mobile device .

This solution can also be used for mobile devices that can establish both voice and data connections simultaneously. For example a mobile device that can support simultaneous data and voice connections could be located in part of a mobile provider s network where data services are either permanently or temporarily unavailable. For example the mobile device could be located in a geographic area where the mobile provider s network only provides voice connectivity or in a portion of the mobile provider s network where data connectivity is temporarily unavailable due to an outage. The mobile device can generate a query when a call is received from a caller whose information is not in currently stored in the caller information data store. The query can then be stored in the query data store until a data connection becomes available. According to an embodiment a query stored in the query data store can be marked with an expiration date and or time. If the query is not completed by the expiration date and or time the query can be removed from the query data store.

It should be noted that many components that are included in the elements of and the subsequent figures have been omitted to make the descriptions more clear. One will note that these omitted elements such as additional base stations networks processors network ports memories buses transceivers etc. would be included in such elements in a manner that is commonly known to those skilled in the art.

The telephony controller includes a telephony transceiver and a telephony driver . The telephony transceiver in combination with the telephony driver handle typical cellular telephone functions including for example registration call set up and hand off. The data controller includes a data transceiver and a data channel driver . The data transceiver in combination with the data channel driver handle data communication functions. For example the functions associated with establishing and using a WiMAX or WiFi network for internet access. The API module provides an interface for applications such as the ECIM to interact with low level functions such as hardware drivers e.g. telephony driver and the data channel driver . The API module or functionality can be provided by a mobile operating system for example Windows Mobile 5.0 a BREW binary runtime environment for wireless JAVA Linux Microsoft Mobile or other API and may use features and functions available on the mobile device not available through such API s .

The ECIM can receive notification from the API module when a request for an incoming call is received by the telephony controller . As described above the mobile device can also be configured to notify the ECIM when other types of communications such as text message MMS message emails or VOIP calls are received at or initiated at the mobile device . The ECIM can also generate an information request as will be described in more detail below. The ECIM can be a plug in application that is downloaded to the mobile device from a website for example. The website can be provided by the query server or a separate server. The plug in application can be downloaded wirelessly or via a personal computer PC for example.

The display selector module selectably determines whether information received at the ECIM is displayed or stored by the mobile device . The display selector generates a user interface which receives user input to select options for displaying and or storing obtained requested information. For example a user may select to display only portions of the requested information received at the ECIM to display the entire information received or to save the received information in memory.

According an embodiment the display selector module is configured to determine which data is displayed in response to various types of communications. For example in an embodiment the display selector module can provide a user interface that allows a user to select the type of information that will be displayed for various types of communications. For example a user might want to have the name and picture if available of an incoming caller be displayed. In another example a user might configure the display selector module to display the name and username for callers participating in a VOIP call. In yet another example a user might want to have the name email address and telephone number of a party from which an email has been received display n the mobile device. One skilled in the art will recognize that these examples are merely several possible combinations of features and that the display selector module can be configured to display other combinations of information according to other embodiments.

The information selector module defines the type of information request to be sent. In one embodiment the information selection module generates a user interface which receives user input to select options for the type of information to be requested. In other embodiments the selection is made when the ECIM is downloaded to the mobile device . In an embodiment the user can select to request at least a portion of information relating to the calling device for example or decline such a request as a call is being received. That allows a user to decide for which incoming calls to request information. In an embodiment the user can also select to request at least a portion of information relating to other types of incoming communications as well or decline the request as the incoming communication is received. For example in an embodiment the user can decide not to request information for a particular email address with which the user is already familiar when an email is received from that address.

The contact information data store is a data store stored in a persistent memory of the mobile device . The contact information data store can include information that was received from the query server in response to a query from the mobile device . According to an embodiment the caller information stored in the caller information data store can include an expiration date that indicates when the data is no longer valid. For example in an embodiment the caller information can include an expiration date after which the entry can be automatically deleted from the contact information data store . In some embodiments the query server can be configured to look for caller information stored in the caller information data store and to use that information if a match is found rather than submitting a query to the query server .

An embodiment the mobile device can be configured to provide an enhanced contact book user interface that allows a user to browse through the information stored in the contact information data store . The interface can also be configured to allow the user to delete entries in the contact information data store . In an embodiment the interface can also be configured to allow the user to select an entry to create a permanent entry in a phone book or contact list data stored in a persistent memory on the mobile device using information from the entry in the contact information data store . According to an embodiment the Enhanced Caller Information Module can be configured to first look in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device or a contact information data store maintained by the ECIM to determine whether information for the caller already exists on the mobile device and to display that information to user of the mobile device rather than submitting a query to query server . In some embodiments the Enhanced Caller Information Module can also be configured to submit a query to query server for each incoming call or other communication regardless of whether the information is already stored on the mobile device in the phone or contact list or other local data store.

According to an embodiment the query module can be configured to determine whether a communication channel is available to send the query to the query server . In some embodiments the query module can be configured to send the query over a data communication channel. In other embodiments the query module can be configured to send the query over a voice channel. In yet other embodiments voice and data communications can be transmitted over the same channel and the query module can be configured to determine whether a voice and data channel is available.

According to an embodiment the query module can be configured to determine whether a communication connection is currently available and if a connection is not available to generate a query and provide the query to off call query module for later processing. According to some embodiments the mobile device may not be able to use a data channel if a voice channel is already in use. For example if an incoming call is received by a mobile device that cannot use data and voice channels simultaneously such as a CDMA based device the query module cannot submit a query for caller information to query server if a request to request to initiate an incoming call has been received over the voice channel or when a call is currently in progress. A request to initiate a call could be received while another call is already ongoing via a call waiting feature and the query module could not submit a query to query server to request caller information if the mobile device is unable to use voice and data channels simultaneously.

According to an embodiment the query module can be configured to first inspect the local contact list or phone book on the phone to determine whether an entry exists that is associated with a caller. The query module can be configured to inspect the contents of the contact information data store if there is not an entry in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device and to formulating a query to be submitted to the query server if there is not an entry in the contact list or the contact information data store .

Off call query module can be configured to store the queries received from the query module in a query data store in the memory of mobile device until a data channel becomes available or until the query expires. According to an embodiment the memory can be a persistent memory such as flash memory a hard disk drive or other type of persistent memory. According to an alternative embodiment the off call query module can be configured to store a calling device identification number or identifier for example telephone number of the calling device an email address of a sender of an email message a username of a user from a social networking site or other information. According to an embodiment the off call query module can monitor for the availability of a communication channel and send queries stored in the mobile device to query server once a communication channel becomes available. In an embodiment the off call query module can be configured to monitor for the availability of a data channel and to transmit the query to the query server upon availability of the data channel. According to another embodiment the off call query module can be scheduled to periodically check for availability of a data channel and to submit pending queries to the query server if an available data channel is found.

Data backup module can be configured to access the contact information data store and or a contact list or other contact information on the mobile device and push the data to query server for backup. The query server can be configured to provide a remote backup of the contact information stored on the mobile device. The contact information stored up on the query server can be used provide a backup of the contact information in the event that a user loses or damages the mobile device such that the contact information would otherwise be lost. In an embodiment the data backup module can be configured to run periodically to push the contact information data stored on the mobile device . In another embodiment the data backup module can provide a user interface that allows a user of mobile device run a data backup on demand or to load the contact information stored on the query server . In an embodiment the data backup module can receive the backed up data requested from the query server and create entries in the contact list of the mobile device or the contact information data store based on the backup information.

Data update module can be configured to receive updated contract information pushed by the query serve to the mobile device . In an embodiment the data update module can update the information in the contact list of the mobile device and or in the contact information data store . According to an embodiment the data update module can be configured to include a user interface that allows a user of the mobile device to request from the query server a backup copy of contact information stored on the query server. The data update module can also be configured to provide a user interface that allows the user to resolve conflicts in the contact information on the mobile device and the backup contact information received from the query server . For example if a contact exists on the mobile device and in the received backup information but a portion of the contact information such as an email address or phone number does not match up between the two versions of the contact information the user interface can be configured to allow the user to select which version of the data to keep on the mobile device. The user interface can also allow the user to merge the two versions of the data by selecting data from each version that should be kept in the contact information on the mobile device. For example the user might decide to keep the email address for a contact that was stored on the mobile device but to update the contact information on the mobile device with the telephone numbers and address from the backup contact information received from the query server .

In an embodiment the storage device can store information relating to caller devices and users of caller devices . For example the storage device can include a list of names indexed by telephone numbers. In one embodiment the information is telecommunications carrier independent records. In one embodiment the calling device identification number includes a telephone number of the calling device . The database or storage device can include a virtual telephone number database including a master list of telephone numbers with thousands of attribute data items. The database or storage device may be updated frequently by querying for example the SS7 network for wireless telephone numbers from wireless carriers.

In some embodiments the storage device can store contact information about parties with whom the user of mobile device communicates. As described above the mobile device can be configured to place and or to receive calls and to send and or to receive other types of communications. For example the contact information can include information about parties with whom the user of the mobile device communicates via SMS messages or other types of text messages email messages MMS messages and other types of messaging service messages such as messages to and from social networking sites.

The information gateway module can be coupled to the storage device and configured to receive a query or request for information from devices such as the mobile device over a data communication channel. The query or request for information can include a calling device identification number or identifier for example telephone number of the calling device an indication of the information requested and an identifier of the requesting party. For example the query or request for can include a network address for the calling device such as an Internet Protocol IP address or a hardware identifier such as a Media Access Control MAC address.

In some embodiments the query or request can include other information that can be used to identify a contact for which the mobile device has requested additional information to be displayed to the user of the mobile device. For example in one embodiment the query or request can include the email address of a contact for which information is being requested while in another embodiment the query or request can include a VOIP service username or identifier associated with a contact for which the information is being requested.

The information gateway module can authenticate the requester of information and can also perform billing functions such as tracking requests by customer or subscriber. In one embodiment the information gateway module authenticates the requester by accessing a verification file or table to validate the requester. The verification table may include a list of telephone numbers and names associated with the requester where the requester is for example a mobile device and or subscriber.

The information application module is coupled to the information gateway module and receives the calling device identification number of the calling device or other contact information included in the query or request from the information gateway module . The information application module accesses the records in the storage device using the calling device identification number or other contract information to obtain the requested information pertaining to the contact such as calling party information information about the calling device information associated with an email address VOIP service username or other contact information. In some embodiments the calling device identification number is associated with the requested information via an algorithm that uses the calling device identification number to compute the location in memory of requested information in the storage device. In other embodiments an algorithm can be applied to contact information such as an email address or VOIP service username to compute a location in memory of the requested information in the storage device.

According to some embodiments the information application module can be configured to access one or more third party data servers across network in order to obtain information about a contact for which information has been requested. The information application module can submit a query to the third party data server that includes the calling device identification number and or other contact information received in the request from the mobile device . The third party data server can then correlate the telephone number or other contact information with records stored in the data store to determine whether any information is available related to the calling device identification number or other contact information that was included in the request from the mobile device .

According to an embodiment the information application module can be configured to determine whether to access data from the third party data server . In one embodiment the information application module can be configured to access the third party data server only if no contact information is found in the storage device for a particular request received from the mobile device . In other embodiments the information application module can be configured to access the third party data server can be configured access the third party data server each time that a request is received.

In yet another embodiment the information for each contact in the storage device can include a data and timestamp and the information application module can be configured to access the third party data server to determine if more up to date information is available for the contact if the information in the storage device is older than a predetermined threshold. For example the information application module can be configured to access content from the third party data store in response to a request from the mobile device if the content in the storage device is more that 10 days old. In yet another embodiment if the contact information in storage is obtained from multiple third party data servers the content from each third party data server can be marked with a date and timestamp and the information application module can be configured to access the content from those third party data servers for which the content is older than a predetermined threshold in response to requests from the mobile device .

According to an embodiment the information application module can be configured to store the results of the query to the third party data server in the storage device so that the information that was obtained from the at least one third party data store is available for responding to future queries from a mobile device without having to resubmit a query to the at least one third party data store .

In an embodiment the request from the mobile device can include a calling device identification number can be the telephone number associated with the calling device. The query to the third party data server can identify records in the data store that include the telephone number and return those records or a portion thereof to the query server . In other embodiments the request from the mobile device can include other contact information such as an email address VOIP service username and or other information. The query to the third party data server can identify records in the data store that include this contact information.

The information application module can be configured to parse the information received from the third party data server to extract information about the contact for which the mobile device requested information such as the contact s name address email address social network username demographic information and or other information. According to some embodiments the information application module can be configured to submit requests to a plurality of third party data servers and to correlate the information received back from the plurality of third party data servers to create a set of information related to calling device or calling party.

The communication module is coupled to the information application module and transmits the requested information data pertaining to the calling device via a communication channel. According to some embodiments the communication channel is a data communication channel while in other embodiments the communication channel can be a voice channel or a combined voice and data channel. Alternatively in some embodiments the response to the request can be sent as a short message service SMS communications protocol message that allows the interchange of short text messages between mobile devices or an email. The response to the request can also be sent as a VOIP Wireless VOIP Session Initiation Protocol SIP etc. In some embodiments a single network can be utilized to carry voice and data information. Thus the voice communication can be received over the single network and the request for information and response can also be transmitted and received by the mobile device over the single network.

Data backup module can be configured to receive contact information transmitted by the mobile device to the server . In an embodiment the data backup module can store the backed up contact information in storage device . Data backup module can also be configured to receive requests from the mobile device to provide backed up contact data and to transmit the backed up contact data to the mobile device via network .

In another embodiment the data backup module can be configured to push updated contact information to the mobile device . For example if the information application module can be configured to identify a telephone number that has been disconnected and to update contact that reference that number. In an embodiment information application module can be configured to identify changes in information regarding a contact on the mobile device and to store the updated content information in the storage device . In one embodiment the information application module can be configured to perform queries to gather information from one or more third party data servers . The information application module can be configured to perform queries related to contacts in contact information associated with mobile device .

Contact analysis module can be configured to identify devices or contacts that may contact the mobile device at some point in the future. The contact analysis module can instruct the information application module to perform queries to gather information related to the potential the contact and push the collected information to the mobile device . Mobile device can be configured to add any new or updated contact information to the contact information data store so the contact information is available for future display. The call or other communication information and or contact information can be analyzed by the query server to develop calling circles or calling clusters that represent groups of people that may not have been in direct contact with one another but have one or more common contacts which may indicate that these parties are likely to contact each other in the future. While these groups are referred to herein as calling circles or calling clusters other types of communications besides call can be made between the parties and parties can be included in a cluster or circle based on other types of communications such as email messages text messages or other communication types.

Various information can be provided to the query server by the data backup module of the mobile device. This information can include contact information stored on the mobile device including information stored in the contact information data store . This information can also include information about incoming and or outgoing communications. For example the information might include call log information and information about incoming our outgoing text messages email messages and or other types of communications. The contact analysis module can also be configured to develop calling circles or clusters based on requests for information about a party to a communication that were received by the information gateway module . The contact analysis module can also use a combination of the various sources of information described above to develop circles or clusters of parties that communication with one another.

In some embodiments users of the mobile device must opt in before any contact or communications information can be sent to the query server . In embodiments where the user has opted out of the sending information to the query server and or to where the mobile device is not configured to collect and send this information to the query server the requests for information about a party to a communication that were received by the information gateway module can be analyzed to identify calling circles or clusters.

At step the process starts with receiving an incoming call request at the mobile device including the telephone number or identifier of the calling device. The calling party may initiate the call from the calling device illustrated in above. When the call is received at the mobile device illustrated in the ECIM is notified of the call by the API module . The notification may include forwarding the telephone number of the calling device to the ECIM .

The process then continues to step where an information request is formulated including the telephone number of the calling device. In some embodiments the information selector module can prompt the user to select between several options including whether to request information or to specify the type of information desired by the user in relation to the calling device before the query is completed. Thus a user may select to request the name or email of the calling party and not the address of the calling party for example. The request may include a user identifier or license ID a request ID a service key and a return network address. The return network address can include for example a phone number or an internet protocol address. The service key may be the calling device identification number. The user or license ID may be linked to the calling device identification number or network address of the mobile device that may be obtained during a registration process. The user or license ID may be included as part of a downloadable plug in ECIM application. The number of queries afforded to a user may be limited by the license available to the user. For example the license may be limited based on how many queries a user can make during the license period or may have duration constraints.

In step the request from the mobile communication device is transmitted to a query processing center via the data communication channel. The query processing center includes a query server illustrated in above for processing the request and obtaining a response. At step the request is received at the query processing center. The process then continues to step where the telephone number of the calling device is used to access the database or storage device to verify the user s license and to obtain the requested information. According to an embodiment the query server can be configured to make a determination whether information to access data from one or more third party data servers . As described above the query server can be configured to make a determination whether to access one or more third party data servers in order to obtain information about the calling party. The information obtained being the requested information pertaining or relating to the calling device. In step the requested information obtained from the database can transmitted to the mobile phone via the data communication channel or by SMS or email . In step the requested information can be received by the ECIM . In one embodiment the user can accept or reject the call based on the information received in step .

When the ECIM is notified that an incoming call request has been received at the mobile device the ECIM can be configured to first search the local contact list or phone list stored in the phone and the contact information data store for information previously received from the query server to see if information related to the calling party is already available on the phone step . In an embodiment the ECIM can be configured to select the information for the caller from one of these local data stores for display to the user of the mobile device rather than submitting a query to the query server to obtain information about the caller.

A determination is made whether the caller information has been found in memory on the mobile device step . If caller information has been found on the local device a determination can be made whether to force the query to be submitted to the query server even though caller information was found locally on the mobile device step . According to an embodiment the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be submitted to the query server . For example the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be submitted to the query server for all incoming calls. In an embodiment the mobile network provider can configure the mobile device to submit a query to query server for all incoming calls. In an embodiment the mobile network provider could provide an enhanced caller identification service to which customers can subscribe and the mobile network provider can configure the ECIM module of the mobile devices of the subscribers to submit a query for each incoming call regardless of whether the mobile device already has a local copy of caller information. According to another embodiment the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be submitted for some incoming call requests. For example the local caller information can have an expiration date or a last updated date associated with the information. If the locally stored information is older than a predetermined threshold e.g. one month the ECIM can be configured to submit a query to the query server for caller information in order to ensure that the caller information stored locally on the mobile device remains current. In yet other embodiments the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be performed for callers in specific area codes callers in a specific geographic area or state and or other criteria. In some embodiments the ECIM can provide a user interface on the mobile device that allows the user to configure the criteria is used to determine whether to force a query to be submitted to query server for an incoming call request.

If the query is not to be forced the display selector module of the ECIM can then display the local caller information on the mobile device step . Otherwise if the caller information was not found on the local device or the ECIM is configured to force the query to be submitted for the incoming call request the query module can make determination whether a communication channel of the network is available for sending the query to the query server step . According to an embodiment a determination can be made whether a data channel is available for sending the query to the query server . As described above a data channel may be unavailable if a voice channel is currently in use in some embodiments such as in some CDMA based mobile networks. A data channel might also be unavailable if the mobile device is a portion of the mobile network that does not provide data service or where the data service is currently unavailable. In some embodiments a voice channel can be used to send the data from the mobile device to the query server . If a communication channel is unavailable the query module can provide the telephone number or other identifier of the incoming caller to the off call query module for later processing step . According to an embodiment the query module can store the query information in the query data store whether the communication channel is available or not and the query information can be used for later analysis and reporting. According to an embodiment a query stored in the query data store can be marked with an expiration date and or time. If the query is not completed by the expiration date and or time the query can be removed from the query data store.

If the network is available the query module can submit a query to the query server for caller information step . Once the query has been submitted the ECIM can be configured to wait for a period of time for query results to be received from the query server . A determination is made whether the query results have been received step . According to an embodiment the ECIM can be configured wait a predetermined amount of time before making the determination whether the query results have been received. If the query results are not received by the mobile device the query can be provided to the off call query module to be stored for later processing step and the off call query module can attempt to resubmit the query to the query server at a later time.

Otherwise if the query results are received by the mobile device the query results can be added to the contact information data store step and in some embodiments the query results can be used to create an entry in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device step . The display selector module of the ECIM can then display the caller information on the mobile device step . In an embodiment the caller information can be displayed in real time on a display of the mobile device if the results are received in step before the call request times out. In another embodiment the ECIM can be configured to display the caller information on the user device as a missed call if the user does not answer the call before the call request times out.

The off call query module can be configured to periodically check to see if any queries are pending in the query data store. The off call query module can be configured to wait until a predetermined amount of time has passed step before making a determination whether there are any pending queries stored in the query data store of the off call query module step . If a query is pending in the data store a determination is made whether a channel of the network is available over which the off call query module can transmit the query to the query server step . As described above in some embodiments the query module can be configured to submit queries to the query server via a data communication channel and the data communication channel may be unavailable if a voice channel is currently in use in some embodiments such as in some CDMA based mobile networks. A data channel might also be unavailable if the mobile device is a portion of the mobile network that does not provide data service or where the data service is currently unavailable. If a communication channel is unavailable the off call query module can be configured to once again wait for a predetermined amount of time before resuming processing step .

If the network was available the off call query module can be configured launch the query step . In some embodiments the off call query module can submit the query to query server . In an alternative embodiment the off call query module can provide the query or the telephone identifier stored in the off call query module data store to the query module to be submitted query server .

Once the query has been submitted the off call query module can be configured to wait for the query results to be received from the query server . A determination is made whether the query results have been received step . According to an embodiment the off call query module can be configured to wait a predetermined amount of time before making the determination whether the query results have been received. If the query results are not received by the mobile device the off call query module can return to the wait state step and attempt to resubmit the query again later. Otherwise if the query results are received the query results can be added to the contact information data store step or in another embodiment the query results can be used to create an entry in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device . The off call query module can then remove the query or the telephone number from the off call query module data store step so that the off line query off call query module will not attempt to resubmit a query to the query server for the caller information that was just received.

According to an embodiment if the mobile device is configured to support multithreaded applications the method illustrated in can be implemented in a service thread of the ECIM that can be executed on a processor of the mobile device . In other embodiments an asynchronous state machine can be used to implement the method illustrated in .

The ECIM can be configured to be notified of incoming or outbound communications and to determine whether information related to the parties included in the communication is already available on the phone step . For example if an incoming text or SMS message is received the ECIM can be configured to look up information about the sender in the contact information data store . In another example if an incoming message from a social network site is received the ECIM can be configured to load additional information such as sender s name a photo or other inform the from the contact information data store . In yet another example for either an incoming or outbound VOIP call the username of the parties to the call are all that is typically displayed on the user s device. Additional information such as name pictures and or other information regarding the parties to the call can be stored in the contact information data store and accessed by the ECIM when the mobile device is involved in a VOIP call. In each of these examples the ECIM can be configured to access the contact information data store to retrieve information regarding the parties to the communication that can be displayed to the user of the mobile device without having to submit a query to query server in order to obtain information about the parties to the communication.

A determination is made whether the information has been found in memory on the mobile device step . If information has been found on the local device a determination can be made whether to force the query to be submitted to the query server even though caller information was found locally on the mobile device step .

According to an embodiment the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be submitted to the query server . For example the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be submitted to the query server for all or some types of incoming communications. For example in an embodiment the mobile network provider can configure the mobile device to submit a query to query server for all incoming communications. In an embodiment the mobile network provider could provide an enhanced caller information service to which customers can subscribe and the mobile network provider can configure the ECIM of the mobile devices of the subscribers to submit a query for each incoming communications regardless of whether the mobile device already has a local copy of information about the parties to the communication.

According to another embodiment the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be submitted for some incoming call communications. For example the contact information stored in contact information data store can have an expiration date or a last updated date associated with the information. If the locally stored information is older than a predetermined threshold e.g. one month the ECIM can be configured to submit a query to the query server for contact information in order to ensure that the contact information stored locally on the mobile device remains current. In yet other embodiments the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be performed for callers in specific area codes callers in a specific geographic area or state and or other criteria. In other embodiments the ECIM can be configured to force a query to be performed for certain types of communications such as messages received from a social networking site or for participants of a VOIP call. In some embodiments the ECIM can provide a user interface on the mobile device that allows the user to configure the criteria is used to determine whether to force a query to be submitted to query server for a communication.

If the query is not to be forced the display selector module of the ECIM can then display the locally obtained information on the mobile device step . Otherwise if the caller information was not found on the local device or the ECIM is configured to force the query to be submitted for the incoming call request the query module can make determination whether a communication channel of the network is available step . According to an embodiment a determination can be made whether a data channel is available for sending the query to the query server . As described above a data channel may be unavailable if a voice channel is currently in use in some embodiments such as in some CDMA based mobile networks. A data channel might also be unavailable if the mobile device is a portion of the mobile network that does not provide data service or where the data service is currently unavailable. In some embodiments a voice channel can be used to send the data from the mobile device to the query server . If a communication channel is unavailable the query module can provide the telephone number username email address or other identifier of a party to a communication to the off call query module for later processing step . According to an embodiment a query stored in the query data store can be marked with an expiration date and or time. If the query is not completed by the expiration date and or time the query can be removed from the query data store.

Once the query has been submitted the ECIM can be configured to wait for a period of time for query results to be received from the query server . A determination is made whether the query results have been received step . According to an embodiment the ECIM can be configured wait a predetermined amount of time before making the determination whether the query results have been received. If the query results are not received by the mobile device the query can be provided to the off call query module to be stored for later processing step and the off call query module can attempt to resubmit the query to the query server at a later time.

Otherwise if the query results are received by the mobile device the query results can be added to the contact information data store step and in some embodiments the query results can be used to create an entry in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device step . The display selector module of the ECIM can then display the information about the participants of the communication on the mobile device step . In an embodiment the contact information can be displayed in real time on a display of the mobile device if the results are received in step before an incoming communication notification period expires. In some embodiments the ECIM can provide a user interface that allows the user to configure the notification period timeouts for different types of incoming communications. For example the user might want to have enhanced contact information displayed for an incoming email or text message if the enhanced contact information is received from the server for up 20 seconds after the mobile device has received the email message. In another example a user might configure the ECIM to display enhanced contact information for an incoming VOIP call up until the incoming call request expires e.g. the incoming call times out the calling party gives up or the call is diverted to voice mail or similar service where the caller can leave a message for the called party . In another embodiment the ECIM can be configured to display the contact information on the user device as a received or missed communication depending on the type of communication if the user does not view or otherwise access the incoming communication before the incoming communication notification period expires. For example in an embodiment if the user receives an incoming email message or text message the enhanced contact information received from the query server can be added to a list of received but not yet viewed communications on the mobile device. Similarly in an embodiment if an incoming VOIP call is missed the enhanced contact information for the caller can be added to a list of missed calls on the mobile device. The list of missed or received communication can include an identifier that identifies the type of incoming communication.

As described above off call query module can be configured to store queries received from the query module in a query data store until a communication channel becomes available. In some embodiments the query module is configured to store queries in the query data store until a data communication channel becomes available. In an embodiment if the mobile device is configured to support multithreaded applications the method illustrated in can be implemented in an offline query thread of the off call query module that is executed on a processor of the mobile device .

The off call query module can be configured to periodically check to see if any queries are pending in the query data store. The off call query module can be configured to wait until a predetermined amount of time has passed step before making a determination whether there are any pending queries stored in the query data store of the off call query module step . If a query is pending in the data store a determination is made whether a communication channel of the network is available step . As described above in some embodiments the query module can be configured to submit queries to the query server via a data communication channel and the data communication channel may be unavailable if a voice channel is currently in use in some embodiments such as in some CDMA based mobile networks. A data channel might also be unavailable if the mobile device is a portion of the mobile network that does not provide data service or where the data service is currently unavailable. If the network is unavailable the off call query module can be configured to once again wait for a predetermined amount of time before resuming processing step .

If the network was available the off call query module can be configured launch the query step . In some embodiments the off call query module can submit the query to query server . In an alternative embodiment the off call query module can provide the query or the other identifier such as an email address username telephone number etc. stored in the off call query module data store to the query module to be submitted query server .

Once the query has been submitted the off call query module can be configured to wait for the query results to be received from the query server . A determination is made whether the query results have been received step . According to an embodiment the off call query module can be configured to wait a predetermined amount of time before making the determination whether the query results have been received. If the query results are not received by the mobile device the off call query module can return to the wait state step and attempt to resubmit the query again later. Otherwise if the query results are received the query results can be added to the contact information data store step or in another embodiment the query results can be used to create an entry in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device . The off call query module can then remove the query or the other identifier from the off call query module data store step so that the off line query off call query module will not attempt to resubmit a query to the query server for the contact information that was just received.

At step the process starts with receiving a communication at the mobile device . The mobile device can be configured to receive various types of communications such as text or SMS messages email VOIP calls and or other types of communications including telephone calls. According to some embodiments the receipt of an incoming communication is optional and the process illustrated in can be initiated by an outgoing communication from the mobile device . For example in one embodiment the user of the mobile device can initiate a VOIP call to one or more parties using a VOIP service application being executed by the mobile device . The user of mobile device can enter one or more VOIP usernames of parties to be called and the mobile device can look up and display information associated with the usernames of the parties to be called.

The process then continues to step where an information request is formulated including the contact information identifying the contact for which additional information is desired. For example in one embodiment the request can include the email address of a contact for which information is being requested while in another embodiment the request can include a VOIP service username or identifier associated with a contact for which the information is being requested. In some embodiments the information selector module can prompt the user to select between several options including whether to request information or to specify the type of information desired by the user in relation to the contact before the query is completed. Thus a user may select to request the name or email of the calling party and not the address of the calling party for example. The request may include a user identifier or license ID a request ID a service key and a return network address. The return network address can include for example a phone number or an internet protocol address. The service key may be the calling device identification number. The user or license ID may be linked to the calling device identification number or network address of the mobile device that may be obtained during a registration process. The user or license ID may be included as part of a downloadable plug in ECIM application. The number of queries afforded to a user may be limited by the license available to the user. For example the license may be limited based on how many queries a user can make during the license period or may have duration constraints.

In step the request from the mobile device is transmitted to query server of a query processing center via a communication channel. In some embodiments the communication channel is a data channel while in other embodiments the communication channel is a voice channel or a channel that can be used for both data and voice communications. At step the request is received at the query server . The process then continues to step where the contact information from the request is used to obtain the requested information about the contact. In step the requested information obtained from the database can transmitted to the mobile device via the communication channel or by SMS or email . In step the requested information can be received by the ECIM .

The data backup module can be configured to periodically or on demand of a user of the mobile device access contact information on the mobile device to be backed upon the query server step . As described above the data backup module can provide a user interface that allows a user to request that the contact information on the mobile device be sent to the query server for backup. The contact information can be included in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device as well as the information stored in the contact information data store . The data backup module can then transmit the contact information to be backed up to the query server via the network step . In an embodiment the data backup module can coordinate with the data controller to transmit the contact information to the query server via the network .

The query server can receive contact information from a mobile device to be backed upon the query server step . The query server can then store the received contact information in a persistent data store such as data storage area or system . The backed up copy of the contact information can be associated with a username phone number device id or other unique identifier that can be used to uniquely identify the backed up contact information. This identifier can be later provided to the query server by a user or mobile device to obtain a copy of the backed up contact information.

The data update module can send a request to the query server to retrieve backed up contact information that was previously transmitted to the query server for storage step . In an embodiment the request can include a unique identifier associated with a user of the mobile device or with the mobile device itself that was associated with the contact information stored on the query server . The requested information is received from the server step and the contact information on the mobile device can be updated using the data received from the server step . According to an embodiment the data update module can update the information stored in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device and or the contact information in the contact information data store using the information received from the server.

According to an embodiment the data update module can display a message to the user that the update has been successfully completed if the contact information is received from the query server and the contact information on the mobile device is successfully updated. As described above the data update module can provide a user interface for resolving conflicts between the data on the mobile device and the data received from the server. In an embodiment if the request from the server times out or no backup information is found on the server a message indicating that the request timed out no backup information was available on the server or that authentication failed can be displayed to the user on a display of mobile device or an audio message can be played to the user by the mobile device .

The query server receives the request for backup data from a mobile device step . As described above the request can include a unique identifier associated with a user of the mobile device or associated with the mobile device . The query server can authenticate the request for backup data by comparing the received identifier with an identifier associated with backup information stored in the data storage area or system step . Various authentication methods can be used. For example in one embodiment a username and password can be included in the request for backup information sent by the mobile device and the username and password can be authenticated to determine whether the query server should provide backup contact information associated with the user in response to the request. In another embodiment a unique identifier such as a personal identification number or password can be provided by the user at the time that a backup is requested in the process illustrated in . This password or PIN can be provided in the request to identify which backup contact information to provide in response to a request. In yet another embodiment a hardware identifier associated with the mobile device can be associated with the data backed up by the query server and that identifier can be provided with the request from the mobile device . In embodiments where a hardware identifier is used but a device is lost or damaged an administrator may be required to associate a hardware identifier of the new device with the hardware identifier of the old device so that the query server can provide the correct contact information in response to a request for contact information.

A determination is made whether the request can be authenticated step . If the request cannot be authenticated the query server can transmit a message to the mobile device that access to the content is denied step . If the request can be authenticated the query server can access the backup content stored in the data storage area or system associated with the request step and transmit the requested content to the mobile device step .

The mobile device can collect call data such as incoming and outgoing call data and or data regarding incoming or outgoing communications of other types such as email text messages etc. step . This information may be collected automatically by mobile device or the data backup module of ECIM can be configured to collect this information.

A determination can be made whether the user has opted in for the calling circle program since contact information and call information will be transmitted to the server for analysis step . If the user has not opted in to the service the mobile device will stop processing the request and not transmit any data to the server step . This process is separate from the backup processes illustrated in and will not interfere with the transmission of contact information to the query server for those processes.

If the user has opted in to the service the data backup module of ECIM can be configured to collect call related information and or contact information from the contact list and or the contact information data store step and to transmit the collected information to the query server for analysis step . In some embodiments the information provided to the query server by the data backup module includes the contact information found in the contact list or phone book of the mobile device and or the contact information data store . In other embodiments the information can include information about incoming and or outgoing communications. For example the data backup module may transmit the incoming and or outgoing call log information information about incoming outgoing text email or other types of messages. In other embodiments the data backup module can collect and transmit a combination of one or more of these types of information to the query server for analysis. In some embodiments the user of the mobile device can opt in to the service and can select which information is provided to the query server for analysis to identify calling circles.

The query server can receive contact information and or call or other communication information from the mobile device step and to analyzed the received information to predict which users might potentially call other users step . In an embodiment the query server can be configured to store contact information received from a plurality of mobile devices and to analyze the information to identify calling circles or calling clusters that include parties that call one another or send other types communications to one another such as email messages and text messages. The groups can also include parties that are users of the system and non users of the system such as people businesses or organizations that are not registered users of system but communicate with users of the system.

A determination is made whether any potential contacts have been identified during the analysis of the contact information provided by the mobile device step . If no additional contacts are found the query server can store the received contact and or calling information the database or storage device for use in analyzing contact and or communication information received from other mobile devices step .

If a potential contact or contact is identified that is not already a contact on the mobile device then the contact analysis module can instruct the information application module to perform one or more queries to gather information about the potential contact or contacts step and the call and or contact information received from the mobile device and the information collected by the information application module in the database or storage device step . The contact analysis module can then push the new contact information to the mobile device via network step . The data update module update the contact list and or the contact information data store using the potential contact information pushed by the server to the mobile device .

Those of skill will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can often be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled persons can implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the invention. In addition the grouping of functions within a module block or step is for ease of description. Specific functions or steps can be moved from one module or block without departing from the invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks and modules described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor can be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor can be any processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor can also be implemented as a combination of computing devices for example a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module can reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium. An exemplary storage medium can be coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium can be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium can reside in an ASIC.

The above description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles described herein can be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is to be understood that the description and drawings presented herein represent a presently preferred embodiment of the invention and are therefore representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention. It is further understood that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments that may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly limited by nothing other than the appended claims.

