---

title: Microfabricated bulk wave acoustic bandgap device
abstract: A microfabricated bulk wave acoustic bandgap device comprises a periodic two-dimensional array of scatterers embedded within the matrix material membrane, wherein the scatterer material has a density and/or elastic constant that is different than the matrix material and wherein the periodicity of the array causes destructive interference of the acoustic wave within an acoustic bandgap. The membrane can be suspended above a substrate by an air or vacuum gap to provide acoustic isolation from the substrate. The device can be fabricated using microelectromechanical systems (MEMS) technologies. Such microfabricated bulk wave phononic bandgap devices are useful for acoustic isolation in the ultrasonic, VHF, or UHF regime (i.e., frequencies of order 1 MHz to 10 GHz and higher, and lattice constants of order 100 μm or less).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07836566&OS=07836566&RS=07836566
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 07836566
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100421
---
This is a divisional application of application Ser. No. 11 748 832 filed May 15 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 733 198 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to phononic technologies and in particular to a bulk wave acoustic bandgap device that can be fabricated using microelectromechanical systems technologies.

An acoustic bandgap ABG is the phononic analog of a photonic bandgap PBG wherein a range of acoustic frequencies are forbidden to exist in a structured material. ABGs are realized by embedding periodic scatterers in a host matrix that propagates an acoustic wave. The scatterer material has a density and or elastic constant that is different than that of the matrix material leading to destructive interference of the acoustic wave when the lattice constant of the phononic crystal structure is comparable to the wavelength of the acoustic wave. If the interference is destructive the energy of the acoustic wave is reflected back and the wave cannot propagate through the phononic crystal. This destructive interference creates the ABG. In principle the bandgap can be created at any frequency or wavelength simply by changing the size of the unit cell of the crystal. The spectral width of the ABG is directly related to the ratio of the densities and sound velocities in the different materials comprising the structure. In general the larger the ratio the wider the bandgap. For example the bandwidth of an ABG based acoustic isolator can exceed 0.5 where is the center midgap frequency of the ABG. See M. M. Sigalas and E. N. Economou 75 2845 1994 . This wide bandwidth distinguishes ABG acoustic isolators from previously developed one dimensional quarter wave acoustic reflectors. Further for two or three dimensional phononic crystals the frequency and width of the bandgap will depend on the direction of propagation.

Most of the prior ABG work has been limited to large hand assembled structures at frequencies below 1 MHz i.e structures with lattice constants of order one millimeter or greater where the ABG matrix material was either water or epoxy. See T. Miyashita 16 R47 2005 . Investigation of higher frequency ABGs in solid low loss materials has recently been reported for surface acoustic wave SAW devices where ABGs have been demonstrated at 200 MHz by etching air hole scatterers in lithium niobate and silicon. See S. Benchabane et al. 6128 61281A 1 2006 and T. Wu et al. 97 094916 2005 .

However there remains a need for bulk wave acoustic bandgap BAW ABG devices fabricated using microelectromechanical systems MEMS technologies. Such microfabricated BAW ABG devices would be useful for acoustic isolation of devices operating in the ultrasonic VHF or UHF regime i.e. frequencies of order 1 MHz to 10 GHz and higher and lattice constants of 100 m or less such as radio frequency rf resonators and gyros. By defecting the acoustic bandgap device through removal or modification of the scatterers microscale phononic elements such as waveguides couplers high Q cavities filters mirrors and lenses can be realized enabling phononic integrated circuits and impacting fields such as communications ultrasound and non destructive testing. Further microscale BAW devices have several significant advantages over SAW approaches. In SAW devices energy can leak into the substrate introducing loss in cavities and waveguides. Conversely BAW ABG devices can be placed in vacuum and acoustically isolated from the substrate completely confining the acoustic energy inside a two dimensional ABG device. Other advantages of the microfabricated BAW ABG devices are small size and compatibility with conventional complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS fabrication processes.

The present invention is directed to a microfabricated bulk wave acoustic bandgap device comprising a substrate a membrane comprising a matrix material suspended above the substrate that propagates an acoustic wave and a two dimensional periodic array of scatterers embedded within the matrix material wherein the scatterer material has a density and or elastic constant that is different than the matrix material and wherein the periodicity of the array causes destructive interference of the acoustic wave within an acoustic bandgap.

The scatterer material preferably has a higher density and acoustic velocity than the matrix material. The array preferably has a cermet topology. The volume filling fraction of the scatterers in the matrix is preferably approximately 0.3. The device can be fabricated using MEMS materials and technologies. For example the substrate can comprise silicon the matrix material can comprise silicon dioxide silicon or polymer and the scatterer material can comprise tungsten. The periodic array can comprise a square lattice with a periodicity of less than 100 microns.

Phononic elements can be realized by breaking the periodicity of the acoustic bandgap device to create highly localized defect or guided modes within the acoustic bandgap. For example such phononic elements can comprise a waveguide a splitter or a channel drop filter.

The invention further comprises a method for fabricating a bulk wave acoustic bandgap device. The method comprises providing a substrate forming a release layer on the substrate forming a matrix layer comprising a matrix material on the release layer forming a two dimensional periodic array of scatterers within the matrix material wherein the scatterer material has a density and or elastic constant that is different than the matrix material and removing the release layer to release a membrane comprising the matrix material and the periodic array of scatterers within the matrix material wherein the periodicity of the array causes destructive interference within an acoustic bandgap of an acoustic wave that propagates in the membrane.

A number of microfabricated bulk wave acoustic bandgap devices were designed and characterized to demonstrate the invention. These exemplary devices comprised high impedance high density tungsten scatterers in a low density low acoustic impedance SiOmatrix membrane. Integrated AIN piezoelectric couplers were used to launch and detect longitudinal acoustic waves in the membrane and characterize the acoustic bandgap. BAW ABG devices were fabricated with lattice constants of 45 m and 90 m corresponding to acoustic bandgaps at 67 MHz and 33 MHz respectively. These devices were experimentally characterized and had maximum acoustic attenuations greater than 30 dB. Gap widths as large as a third of the gap center frequency were measured.

In is shown a top view photograph of an exemplary microfabricated BAW ABG device according to the present invention. This exemplary device comprises nine layers periods of aluminum capped tungsten scatterers arranged in a two dimensional square lattice array embedded in a silicon dioxide SiO host matrix . The matrix comprises a thin membrane that is suspended above an underlying silicon substrate not shown to provide acoustic isolation from the substrate. The scatterers comprise parallel cylinders or rods having cylindrical axes perpendicular to the plane of the membrane. The inset shows a close up image of aluminum capped tungsten scatterers and release holes . Acoustic energy is coupled into and out of the device in the form of longitudinal acoustic waves i.e. compression waves using integrated aluminum nitride AIN piezoelectric couplers and . The couplers and are tapered on the end to provide a wide bandwidth drive and sense. In this exemplary device the acoustic waves propagate in the parallel direction to the lattice. For waves propagating in parallel to the lattice direction the period is equal to the lattice constant.

In is shown a top view scanning electron micrograph SEM of the BAW ABG device shown in . The left inset shows a close up SEM of aluminum capped tungsten scatterers in the SiOmatrix . For this exemplary device the lattice constant a is 45 m and the scatterer radius r is 14.4 m. The volume filling fraction is r a 0.32. The release holes in the center of the tungsten scatterers have a radius of 5 m. The right inset shows a close up SEM of an AIN coupler . This device has a center frequency of 67 MHz. Acoustic frequencies inside the acoustic bandgap of the device cannot propagate between the two AIN couplers and .

In is shown a top view photograph of a suspended membrane comprising a homogeneous isotopic SiOhost matrix with release holes but without any scatterers and piezoelectric couplers and . This matrix membrane does not display an ABG and was used as a comparison to characterize the BAW ABG device shown in .

To produce an acoustic bandgap spanning a wide frequency range with a high magnitude of acoustic isolation there are several important criteria that should be followed. First a cermet topology of isolated high density inclusions scatterers embedded in a low density host matrix is preferred with as high a density contrast as possible between the scatterers and the host matrix materials. Using a cermet topology to achieve wide acoustic bandgaps in a phononic crystal is opposite to photonic crystals wherein a network topology of scatterer material that is connected and forms a continuous network throughout the structure is preferred to achieve wide electromagnetic bandgaps. See E. Economou and M. Sigalas 48 13434 1993 .

The second important criteria is that the scatterers and the matrix preferably have as high an acoustic impedance mismatch as possible and more preferably with the scatterers having the higher acoustic impedance. The acoustic impedance of a material is Z c 1 where c is the acoustic velocity and is the density. Etching hole inclusions in a solid matrix as has been demonstrated in prior microscale ABG devices places low density low impedance scatterers in a high density high impedance matrix resulting in narrower gaps with lower isolation. See S. Benchabane et al. and T. Wu et al.

Finally the volume filling fraction of the high density high impedance scatterers is preferably approximately 0.3. See M. M. Sigalas and E. N. Economou. If the filling fraction is too low transmission through the matrix material around the scatterers can occur. If the filling fraction becomes too high hopping between the scatterers leads to acoustic transmission. Finite difference time domain FDTD simulations indicate the optimal ratio for the square lattice is 0.32.

In addition to a square lattice other two dimensional periodic lattice structures can also be used such as hexagonal triangular or honeycomb. In addition to cylindrical scatterers other scatterer shapes can also be used such as squares triangles diamonds polygons etc. FDTD simulations can be used to optimize the ABG for these other lattice symmetries and scatterer shapes.

Other material considerations include material damping and materials that are compatible with MEMS fabrication technologies and preferably silicon CMOS technologies. Tungsten is a good choice as the scatterer inclusion because of it high density 19.3 kg m and high acoustic impedance 89 MegaOhms M . Tungsten also has low material damping quality factor Q 10at 273 K and is widely used in CMOS contact structures. See W. Duffy Jr. 72 12 5628 1992 . Other high density high acoustic impedance low material damping MEMS materials can also be used for the scatterers such as tungsten carbide platinum polycrystalline diamond or molybdenum. Desired characteristics of the matrix material are low density and acoustic impedance along with high acoustic velocity and Q. Polymers such as SU 8 can provide a very high density and acoustic impedance mismatch with tungsten. The material damping of polymers however is high and the acoustic velocity is low resulting in smaller structures for a given frequency. On the other end of the spectrum silicon either single crystal or polycrystalline can be used as the matrix material. Quality factors exceeding 10have been achieved in microfabricated silicon resonators and the acoustic velocity is high. Of low loss high velocity MEMS materials SiOand other silicate glasses have the largest density and impedance mismatch with tungsten and can provide wide bandgaps. However other IC or MEMS compatible materials such as gallium arsenide gallium nitride zinc oxide lithium niobate lithium tantalite quartz and silicon germanium can also be used as matrix materials. Table 1 summarizes the acoustic properties of some MEMS compatible matrix materials.

In is shown a schematic illustration of a method to fabricate the BAW ABG device shown in using MEMS technologies. The details of the fabrication steps are not described herein since cleaning deposition masking photolithography mask removal etching planarizing etc. are well known in the art.

In a thin etch stop layer is formed on a substrate . The substrate can comprise any suitable substrate material that is compatible with the fabrication processing such as silicon semiconductor glass ceramic or metal. The etch stop layer comprises a material that is insoluble in the release etch. For example the etch stop layer can be a 0.6 m thickness oxide layer that is thermally grown on a silicon substrate. Next a release layer is deposited on the etch stop layer . The release layer comprises a material that is soluble in the release etch. For example the release layer can be a 2 m thickness layer of undoped polysilicon. Next an electrical interconnect layer is deposited and patterned on the release layer . For example the interconnect layer can be a 0.4 m thickness aluminum layer that is sputter deposited and patterned using standard lithography. The patterned interconnect layer provides for an electrical interconnection to the piezoelectric coupler and also serves to protect the bottoms of the scatterers during the release etch. A matrix layer is formed on the patterned interconnect layer and the exposed release layer . For example the matrix layer can be formed by plasma enhanced tetraethylorthosilicate PETEOS deposition of a 4 m thickness oxide layer on the patterned aluminum interconnect layer and the exposed polysilicon release layer. The matrix layer can be subsequently polished to remove the surface topography created by the underlying patterned interconnect layer .

In trenches are etched through the matrix layer to the interconnect layer followed by conformal deposition of the scatterer material to form plugs and in the trenches. For example 2 m wide trenches can be etched through the oxide matrix layer followed by conformal deposition of the tungsten scatterer material into the open trenches. The scatterer material layer can be polished for example by chemical mechanical polishing CMP until it remains only in the trenches that were etched in the matrix layer . The plug material forms an electrical contact from the electrical interconnection to the bottom electrode of the integrated piezoelectric coupler and also forms a portion of the high density scatterer inclusions .

In the filling of the scatterers can be completed by repeating the matrix layer etch scatterer material deposition and polishing if desired. Next a piezoelectric coupler bottom electrode is deposited and patterned followed by deposition and patterning of an oriented piezoelectric layer . For example the bottom electrode can be a deposited Ti TiN Al electrode. The piezoelectric coupler provides an in plane lateral displacement for electrical drive and sense. Therefore the piezoelectric coupler layer can be formed by the sputter deposition of 0.75 m thickness of AIN. The AIN film can be highly c axis oriented e.g. x ray diffraction rocking curve full width half maximum of about 1.5 which results in strong piezoelectric coupling. The piezoelectric layer can be patterned and a top electrode deposited on the patterned piezoelectric coupler layer . For example the AIN can be patterned and a 0.4 m thickness aluminum top electrode can be deposited on the patterned AIN coupler layer. Other suitable materials that can be used for the piezoelectric coupler are for example zinc oxide ZnO and lead zirconate titanate PZT PbZrTiO . The top electrode layer can also provide caps to protect the scatterers during the release etch.

In release holes are etched through the matrix layer and the BAW ABG device is released by etching the release layer . If the scatterers are not completely filled as shown in the release holes can be etched through the center of the scatterers as shown in . Alternatively if the membrane is narrow it can be released by etching the release layer from the sides. The etch stop layer prevents etching of the underlying substrate during the release etch. For example the release holes can be etched through the oxide matrix layer down to the polysilicon release layer and the device can be released in dry sulfur hexafluoride SF . Using a thin polysilicon release layer as opposed to the silicon substrate prevents etch loading during release and allows large structures to be released through small holes. The release etch leaves a thin membrane that is suspended above the substrate by a gap that provides acoustic isolation from the substrate when an acoustic wave propagates in the membrane . The membrane can be suspended above the substrate by thin tethers not shown at the ends of the membrane perpendicular to the direction of propagation of the acoustic wave. The gap minimizes acoustic energy loss from the membrane to the substrate . Preferably the gap is an air or vacuum gap. Rather than a gap the membrane can be formed on a layer not shown comprising an acoustic reflector or a material that has an impedance mismatch with the scatterer and matrix materials. This exemplary fabrication method uses seven masks and provided the polysilicon release layer is deposited at low temperature is post CMOS compatible.

When an oscillatory voltage is applied between the top electrode and the bottom electrode of the drive piezoelectric coupler an in plane extensional mechanical stress is produced in the piezoelectric material that changes the width of the coupler in the direction substantially parallel to the membrane . This oscillation is coupled into the membrane as an in plane longitudinal acoustic wave. The membrane comprises periodic scatterers in a host matrix that propagates the acoustic wave. The scatterer material has a density and or elastic constant that is different than that of the matrix material leading to destructive interference of the acoustic wave when the period of the scatterers is comparable to the wavelength of the acoustic wave. If the interference is destructive the energy of the acoustic wave is reflected back and the wave cannot propagate through the membrane to the sense piezoelectric coupler . This destructive interference creates the ABG.

The acoustic response of the 9 layer 67 MHz BAW ABG device shown in was compared to that of the SiOmatrix membrane shown in . Both the device and membrane were tested on a probe station in air using a network analyzer wherein the output of the network analyzer was used to launch an acoustic wave into the device via an AIN piezoelectric coupler. On the opposite side of the device acoustic waves were detected using the other AIN coupler and fed into the sense input of the network analyzer.

In is shown a graph of the measured transmission for the BAW ABG device shown in the SiOmatrix membrane shown in and the electrical feed through between two unrelated pads of the test set up.

In is shown a graph of the normalized transmission for the BAW ABG device which is derived by dividing the transmission through the BAW ABG device by the transmission through the SiOmatrix membrane both shown in . The graph shows an ABG from 59 MHz to 76 MHz including a portion from 63 MHz to 72 MHz where transmission is attenuated by greater than 25 dB. The gap has a center frequency of 67.5 MHz and a spectral width of 17 MHz or 0.25.

In is shown a SEM of a BAW ABG device having a center frequency of about 33 MHz. This 33 MHz device has a square lattice and a lattice constant a of 90 m twice that of the 67 MHz device in a 45 m .

In is shown a graph of the measured transmission for the 33 MHz BAW ABG device and the SiOmatrix membrane. An acoustic transmission drop is observed for the BAW ABG device between 27 MHz and 39 MHz with a maximum attenuation greater than 30 dB. The gap center frequency is 33 MHz and the width is 12 MHz yielding 0.36. The bandgap region of the 33 MHz device in is observed at half the frequency of the 67 MHz device shown in as expected from the doubled lattice constant. In addition the ABG induced transmission drops for both devices are centered at a 2 where is the acoustic wavelength in the matrix material and is equal to

If a full acoustic bandgap exists in a phononic crystal confinement of an acoustic wave can be achieved in waveguides or cavities. Such phononic elements can be realized by breaking the periodicity of the phononic crystal to create highly localized defect or guided modes within the acoustic bandgap. Defects can be produced by removing or modifying the scatterers for example by altering the acoustic properties or dimensions in one or several rows of the periodic array or by changing the lattice constant. For example an acoustic wave can be guided by extended linear defects that open up passbands that fall within the acoustic bandgap. In particular phononic waveguides can confine and efficiently guide acoustic waves around sharp bends with much lower loss transmission than conventional waveguides.

In is shown a top view photograph of a linear W3 phononic waveguide created by the removal of three rows of the tungsten scatterers. In general such a waveguide will support multiple linearly localized guided modes in proportionality with the number of removed rows. By analogy a W1 waveguide created by the removal of just one row of scattering tungsten rods will support a single guided mode.

In is shown a graphical comparison between the transmission response of the W3 phononic waveguide the matrix membrane and a 9 layer square lattice BAW ABG device. The figure clearly shows the existence of three guided modes at 64.5 69.8 and 72.1 MHz at which the transmission through the W3 waveguide approaches that of the matrix. Transmission is about 90 100 for these modes.

In is shown the acoustic field pattern for a T shaped phononic splitter that splits a guided mode in an input waveguide into two output waveguides through 90 bends. The circles indicate the positions of the scatterer rods. Dark and light regions represent negative and positive fields while white regions represent zero field. The fields are completely confined within the waveguide regions and split equally into the output waveguides. The splitter structure was modeled as separate waveguide sections in the direction X direction and direction Y direction connected by a short waveguide section in the direction. A similarity homomorphism was used to analogize the modeling of the ABG splitter to modeling of the PBG splitter by Mekis et al. This similarity is possible because the acoustic impedance for an ABG crystal plays the same role as the refractive index for a PBG crystal. See A. Mekis et al. 77 3787 1996 . Alternatively the splitter can be calculated using the same similarity homomorphism and the modeling of Fan et al. See Fan et al. 18 162 2001 . Key to minimizing the back reflection in the input waveguide is the establishment of equal decay rates in each of the three branches of the splitter. This can be established by the insertion of two smaller size rods at the entrance of the splitter branches as shown in .

Evanescent fields extend into the periodic array of scatterers surrounding a waveguide. Therefore mode coupling can occur between adjacent waveguides though a coupling element which supports localized resonances. This enables phononic channel drop tunneling to selectively transfer one particular acoustic wavelength between two parallel coupled waveguides. In general a phononic channel drop filter can be realized by two parallel ABG waveguides and a coupling element that comprises two coupled single mode high Q microcavity defects.

In is shown the acoustic field pattern of a phononic channel drop filter that maximizes transfer efficiency. The ABG crystal is made of a square lattice of high acoustic impedance rods in a low impedance background matrix. The parallel waveguides are formed by removing two rows of rods and the microcavities are formed between the waveguides by reducing the radius of two rods. Each cavity is chosen so that it supports a localized monopole state which is singly degenerate. See P. R. Villeneuve et al. 54 7837 1996 . The filter structure was designed to be symmetric with respect to a mirror plane perpendicular to the two parallel waveguides. In general a propagating mode in the top waveguide can be viewed as being a superposition of two states a cosine part which is even with respect to the mirror plane and a sine part which is odd. Each state couples only to a state of comparable symmetry. In the specific case where the coupling constants and the frequencies are equal for both modes a mixed resonant state is excited which in turn decays only along the forward direction. See S. Fan et al. 80 960 1998 . Frequency degeneracy is enforced between the two modes by reducing the size of four specific rods in the microcavities as shown in . The quality factor of the two states can be made equal provided that the wave vector k of the guided mode satisfies the relation kd n 2 where d is the distance between the two defects and n is an integer.

The present invention has been described as a bulk wave acoustic bandgap device. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

