---

title: Method of profiling gene expression in a subject having heart failure
abstract: The present invention is directed to detection and measurement of gene transcripts in blood. Specifically provided is a RT-PCR analysis performed on a drop of blood for detecting, diagnosing and monitoring diseases using tissue-specific primers. The present invention also describes methods by which delineation of the sequence and/or quantitation of the expression levels of disease-associated genes allows for an immediate and accurate diagnostic/prognostic test for disease or to assess the effect of a particular treatment regimen.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08148072&OS=08148072&RS=08148072
owner: GeneNews Corporation
number: 08148072
owner_city: Richmond Hill
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100409
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 573 863 filed Oct. 5 2009 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 268 730 filed Oct. 9 2002 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 598 031 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 477 148 filed Jan. 4 2000 now abandoned which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 115 125 filed on Jan. 6 1999. Each of these applications is incorporated herein by reference in their entirety including the figures and drawings.

The present invention relates generally to the molecular biology of human diseases. More specifically the present invention relates to a process using the genetic information contained in human peripheral whole blood for the diagnosis prognosis and monitoring of genetic and infectious disease in the human body.

The blood is a vital part of the human circulatory system for the human body. Numerous cell types make up the blood tissue including monocytes leukocytes lymphocytes and erythrocytes. Although many blood cell types have been described there are likely many as yet undiscovered cell types in the human blood. Some of these undiscovered cells may exist transiently such as those derived from tissues and organs that are constantly interacting with the circulating blood in health and disease. Thus the blood can provide an immediate picture of what is happening in the human body at any given time.

The turnover of cells in the hematopoietic system is enormous. It was reported that over one trillion cells including 200 billion erythrocytes and 70 billion neutrophilic leukocytes turn over each day in the human body Ogawa 1993 . As a consequence of continuous interactions between the blood and the body genetic changes that occur within the cells or tissues of the body will trigger specific changes in gene expression within blood. It is the goal of the present invention that these genetic alterations be harnessed for diagnostic and prognostic purposes which may lead to the development of therapeutics for ameliorating disease.

The complete profile of gene expression in the circulating blood remains totally unexplored. It is hypothesized that gene expression in the blood is reflective of body state and as such the resultant disruption of homeostasis under conditions of disease can be detected through analysis of transcripts differentially expressed in the blood alone. Thus the identification of several key transcripts or genetic markers in blood will provide information about the genetic state of the cells tissues organ systems of the human body in health and disease.

The prior art is deficient in non invasive methods of screening for tissue specific diseases. The present invention fulfills this long standing need and desire in the art.

This present invention discloses a process of using the genetic information contained in human peripheral whole blood in the diagnosis prognosis and monitoring of genetic and infectious disease in the human body. The process described herein requires a simple blood sample and is therefore non invasive compared to conventional practices used to detect tissue specific disease such as biopsies.

One object of the present invention is to provide a non invasive method for the diagnosis prognosis and monitoring of genetic and infectious disease in humans and animals.

In one embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for detecting expression of a gene in blood from a subject comprising the steps of a quantifying RNA from a subject blood sample and b detecting expression of the gene in the quantified RNA wherein the expression of the gene in quantified RNA indicates the expression of the gene in the subject blood.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for detecting expression of one or more genes in blood from a subject comprising the steps of a obtaining a subject blood sample b extracting RNA from the blood sample c amplifying the RNA d generating expressed sequence tags ESTs from the amplified RNA product and e detecting expression of the genes in the ESTs wherein the expression of the genes in the ESTs indicates the expression of the genes in the subject blood. Preferably the genes are tissue specific genes.

In still another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for detecting expression of one or more genes in blood from a subject comprising the steps of a obtaining a subject blood sample b extracting DNA fragments from the blood sample c amplifying the DNA fragments and d detecting expression of the genes in the amplified DNA product wherein the expression of the genes in the amplified DNA product indicates the expression of the genes in the subject blood.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for monitoring a course of a therapeutic treatment in an individual comprising the steps of a obtaining a blood sample from the individual b extracting RNA from the blood sample c amplifying the RNA d generating expressed sequence tags ESTs from the amplified RNA product e detecting expression of genes in the ESTs wherein the expression of the genes is associated with the effect of the therapeutic treatment and f repeating steps a e wherein the course of the therapeutic treatment is monitored by detecting the change of expression of the genes in the ESTs. Such a method may also be used for monitoring the onset of overt symptoms of a disease wherein the expression of the genes is associated with the onset of the symptoms.

In still yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for diagnosing a disease in a test subject comprising the steps of a generating a cDNA library for the disease from a whole blood sample from a normal subject b generating expressed sequence tag EST profile from the normal subject cDNA library c generating a cDNA library for the disease from a whole blood sample from a test subject d generating EST profile from the test subject cDNA library and e comparing the test subject EST profile to the normal subject EST profile wherein if the test subject EST profile differs from the normal subject EST profile the test subject might be diagnosed with the disease.

In still yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a kit for diagnosing prognosing or predicting a disease comprising a gene specific primers wherein the primers are designed in such a way that their sequences contain the opposing ends of two adjacent exons for the specific gene with the intron sequence excluded and b a carrier wherein the carrier immobilizes the primer s . Such a kit may be applied to a test subject whole blood sample to diagnose prognose or predict a disease.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a kit for diagnosing prognosing or predicting a disease comprising a probes derived from a whole blood sample for a specific disease and b a carrier wherein the carrier immobilizes the probes. Such a kit may be applied to a test subject whole blood sample to diagnose prognose or predict a disease.

Furthermore the present invention provides a cDNA library specific for a disease wherein the cDNA library is generated from whole blood samples.

Other and further aspects features and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description of the presently preferred embodiments of the invention. These embodiments are given for the purpose of disclosure.

In accordance with the present invention there may be employed conventional molecular biology microbiology and recombinant DNA techniques within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. Sambrook Fritsch Maniatis Molecular Cloning A Laboratory Manual 1982 DNA Cloning A Practical Approach Volumes I and II D. N. Glover ed. 1985 Oligonucleotide Synthesis M. J. Gait ed. 1984 Nucleic Acid Hybridization B. D. Hames S. J. Higgins eds. 1985 Transcription and Translation B. D. Hames S. J. Higgins eds. 1984 Animal Cell Culture R. I. Freshney ed. 1986 Immobilized Cells And Enzymes IRL Press 1986 B. Perb al A Practical Guide To Molecular Cloning 1984 . Therefore if appearing herein the following terms shall have the definitions set out below.

A cDNA is defined as copy DNA or complementary DNA and is a product of a reverse transcription reaction from an mRNA transcript. RT PCR refers to reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction and results in production of cDNAs that are complementary to the mRNA template s .

The term oligonucleotide is defined as a molecule comprised of two or more deoxyribonucleotides preferably more than three. Its exact size will depend upon many factors which in turn depend upon the ultimate function and use of the oligonucleotide. The term primer as used herein refers to an oligonucleotide whether occurring naturally as in a purified restriction digest or produced synthetically which is capable of acting as a point of initiation of synthesis when placed under conditions in which synthesis of a primer extension product which is complementary to a nucleic acid strand is induced i.e. in the presence of nucleotides and an inducing agent such as a DNA polymerase and at a suitable temperature and pH. The primer may be either single stranded or double stranded and must be sufficiently long to prime the synthesis of the desired extension product in the presence of the inducing agent. The exact length of the primer will depend upon many factors including temperature source of primer and the method used. For example for diagnostic applications depending on the complexity of the target sequence the oligonucleotide primer typically contains 15 25 or more nucleotides although it may contain fewer nucleotides. The factors involved in determining the appropriate length of primer are readily known to one of ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein random sequence primers refer to a composition of primers of random sequence i.e. not directed towards a specific sequence. These sequences possess sufficient complementary to hybridize with a polynucleotide and the primer sequence need not reflect the exact sequence of the template.

 Restriction fragment length polymorphism refers to variations in DNA sequence detected by variations in the length of DNA fragments generated by restriction endonuclease digestion.

A standard Northern blot assay can be used to ascertain the relative amounts of mRNA in a cell or tissue obtained from plant or other tissue in accordance with conventional Northern hybridization techniques known to those persons of ordinary skill in the art. The Northern blot uses a hybridization probe e.g. radiolabelled cDNA either containing the full length single stranded DNA or a fragment of that DNA sequence at least 20 preferably at least 30 more preferably at least 50 and most preferably at least 100 consecutive nucleotides in length . The DNA hybridization probe can be labelled by any of the many different methods known to those skilled in this art. The labels most commonly employed for these studies are radioactive elements enzymes chemicals which fluoresce when exposed to untraviolet light and others. A number of fluorescent materials are known and can be utilized as labels. These include for example fluorescein rhodamine auramine Texas Red AMCA blue and Lucifer Yellow. A particular detecting material is anti rabbit antibody prepared in goats and conjugated with fluorescein through an isothiocyanate. Proteins can also be labeled with a radioactive element or with an enzyme. The radioactive label can be detected by any of the currently available counting procedures. The preferred isotope may be selected from H C P S Cl Cr Co Co Fe Y I I and Re. Enzyme labels are likewise useful and can be detected by any of the presently utilized colorimetric spectrophotometric fluorospectrophotometric amperometric or gasometric techniques. The enzyme is conjugated to the selected particle by reaction with bridging molecules such as carbodiimides diisocyanates glutaraldehyde and the like. Many enzymes which can be used in these procedures are known and can be utilized. The preferred are peroxidase glucuronidase D glucosidase D galactosidase urease glucose oxidase plus peroxidase and alkaline phosphatase. U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 654 090 3 850 752 and 4 016 043 are referred to by way of example for their disclosure of alternate labeling material and methods.

As used herein individual refers to human subjects as well as non human subjects. The examples herein are not meant to limit the methodology of the present invention to human subjects only as the instant methodology is useful in the fields of veterinary medicine animal sciences and such.

In one embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for detecting expression of a gene in blood from a subject comprising the steps of a quantifying RNA from a subject blood sample and b detecting expression of the gene in the quantified RNA wherein the expression of the gene in quantified RNA indicates the expression of the gene in the subject blood. An example of the quantifying method is by mass spectrometry.

In another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for detecting expression of one or more genes in blood from a subject comprising the steps of a obtaining a subject blood sample b extracting RNA from the blood sample c amplifying the RNA d generating expressed sequence tags ESTs from the amplified RNA product and e detecting expression of the genes in the ESTs wherein the expression of the genes in the ESTs indicates the expression of the genes in the subject blood. Preferably the subject is a fetus an embryo a child an adult or a non human animal. The genes are non cancer associated and tissue specific genes. Still preferably the amplification is performed by RT PCR using random sequence primers or gene specific primers.

In still another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for detecting expression of one or more genes in blood from a subject comprising the steps of a obtaining a subject blood sample b extracting DNA fragments from the blood sample c amplifying the DNA fragments and d detecting expression of the genes in the amplified DNA product wherein the expression of the genes in the amplified DNA product indicates the expression of the genes in the subject blood.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for monitoring a course of a therapeutic treatment in an individual comprising the steps of a obtaining a blood sample from the individual b extracting RNA from the blood sample c amplifying the RNA d generating expressed sequence tags ESTs from the amplified RNA product e detecting expression of genes in the ESTs wherein the expression of the genes is associated with the effect of the therapeutic treatment and f repeating steps a e wherein the course of the therapeutic treatment is monitored by detecting the change of expression of the genes in the ESTs. Such a method may also be used for monitoring the onset of overt symptoms of a disease wherein the expression of the genes is associated with the onset of the symptoms. Preferably the amplification is performed by RT PCR and the change of the expression of the genes in the ESTs is monitored by sequencing the ESTs and comparing the resulting sequences at various time points or by performing single nucleotide polymorphism analysis and detecting the variation of a single nucleotide in the ESTs at various time points.

In still yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a method for diagnosing a disease in a test subject comprising the steps of a generating a cDNA library for the disease from a whole blood sample from a normal subject b generating expressed sequence tag EST profile from the normal subject cDNA library c generating a cDNA library for the disease from a whole blood sample from a test subject d generating EST profile from the test subject cDNA library and e comparing the test subject EST profile to the normal subject EST profile wherein if the test subject EST profile differs from the normal subject EST profile the test subject might be diagnosed with the disease.

In still yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a kit for diagnosing prognosing or predicting a disease comprising a gene specific primers wherein the primers are designed in such a way that their sequences contain the opposing ends of two adjacent exons for the specific gene with the intron sequence excluded and b a carrier wherein the carrier immobilizes the primer s . Preferably the gene specific primers are selected from the group consisting of insulin specific primers atrial natriuretic factor specific primers zinc finger protein gene specific primers beta myosin heavy chain gene specific primers amyloid precurser protein gene specific primers and adenomatous polyposis coli protein gene specific primers. Further preferably the gene specific primers are selected from the group consisting of SEQ ID Nos. 1 and 2 and SEQ ID Nos. 5 and 6. Such a kit may be applied to a test subject whole blood sample to diagnose prognose or predict a disease by detecting the quantitative expression levels of specific genes associated with the disease in the test subject and then comparing to the levels of same genes expressed in a normal subject. Such a kit may also be used for monitoring a course of therapeutic treatment or monitoring the onset of overt symptoms of a disease.

In yet another embodiment of the present invention there is provided a kit for diagnosing prognosing or predicting a disease comprising a probes derived from a whole blood sample for a specific disease and b a carrier wherein the carrier immobilizes the probes. Such a kit may be applied to a test subject whole blood sample to diagnose prognose or predict a disease by detecting the quantitative expression levels of specific genes associated with the disease in the test subject and then comparing to the levels of same genes expressed in a normal subject. Such a kit may also be used for monitoring a course of therapeutic treatment or monitoring the onset of overt symptoms of a disease.

Furthermore the present invention provides a cDNA library specific for a disease wherein the cDNA library is generated from whole blood samples.

The following examples are given for the purpose of illustrating various embodiments of the invention and are not meant to limit the present invention in any fashion.

RNA extracted from human tissues including fetal heart adult heart liver brain prostate gland and whole blood were used to construct unidirectional cDNA libraries. The first mammalian heart cDNA library was constructed as early as 1982. Since then the methodology has been revised and optimal conditions have been developed for construction of human heart and hematopoietic progenitor cDNA libraries Liew et al. 1984 Liew 1993 Claudio et al. 1998 . Most of the novel genes which were identified by sequence annotation can now be obtained as full length transcripts.

Random partial sequencing of expressed sequence tags ESTs of cDNA clones from the blood cell library was carried out to establish an EST database of blood. The known genes as derived from the ESTs were categorized into seven major cellular functions Hwang Dempsey et al. 1997 .

cDNA probes generated from transcripts of each tissue were used to hybridize the blood cell cDNA clones Liew et al. 1997 . The positive signals which were hybridized with P labelled cDNA probes were defined as genes which shared identity with blood and respective tissues. The negative spots which were not exposed to P labelled cDNA probes were considered to be blood cell enriched or low frequency transcripts.

RNA extracted from samples of human tissue was used for RT PCR analysis Jin et al. 1990 . Three pairs of forward and reverse primers were designed for human cardiac beta myosin heavy chain gene MyHC amyloid precurser protein APP gene and adenomatous polyposis coli protein APC gene. The PCR products were also subjected to automated DNA sequencing to verify the sequences as derived from the specific transcripts of blood.

The beta myosin heavy chain gene MyHC transcript mRNA is known to be highly expressed in ventricles of the human heart. This sarcomeric protein is important for heart muscle contraction and its presence would not be expected in other non muscle tissues and blood. In 1990 the gene for human cardiac MyHC was completely sequenced Liew et al. 1990 and was comprised of 41 exons and 42 introns.

The method of reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction RT PCR was used to determine whether this cardiac specific mRNA is also present in human blood. A pair of primers was designed the forward primer SEQ ID No. 3 was on the boundary of exons 21 and 22 and the reverse primer SEQ ID No. 4 was on the boundary of exons 24 and 25. This region of mRNA is only present in MyHC and is not found in the alpha myosin heavy chain gene MyHC .

A blood sample was first treated with lysing buffer and then undergone centrifuge. The resulting pellets were further processed with RT PCR. RT PCR was performed using the total blood cell RNA as a template. A nested PCR product was generated and used for sequencing. The sequencing results were subjected to BLAST and the identity of exons 21 to 25 was confirmed to be from MyHC .

Using the same method just described two other tissue specific genes amyloid precursor protein APP forward primer SEQ ID No. 7 reverse primer SEQ ID No. 8 found in the brain and associated with Alzheimer s disease and adenomatous polyposis coli protein APC found in the colon and rectum and associated with colorectal cancer Groden et al. 1991 Santoro and Groden 1997 were also detected in the RNA extracted from human blood .

A drop of blood was extracted to obtain RNA to carry out quantitative RT PCR analysis. Specific primers for the insulin gene were designed forward primer 5 GCCCTCTGGGGACCTGAC 3 SEQ ID No. 1 of exon 1 and reverse primer 5 CCCACCTGCAGGTCCTCT 3 SEQ ID No. 2 of exons 1 and 2 of insulin gene. Such reverse primer was obtained by deleting the intron between the exons 1 and 2. Blood samples of 4 normal subjects were assayed. It was found that the insulin gene is expressed in the blood and the quantitative expression of the insulin gene in a drop of blood is influenced by fasting and non fasting states of normal healthy subjects . This very low level of expression of the insulin gene reflects the phenotypic status of a person and strongly suggests that there is a physiological and pathological role for its expression contrary to the basal or illegitimate theory of transcription suggested by Chelly et al. 1989 and Kimoto 1998 .

Same quantitative RT PCR analysis was performed using insulin specific primers on RNA samples extracted from a drop of blood from a normal healthy person a person having late onset diabetes Type II and a person having asymptomatic diabetes. It was found that the insulin gene is expressed differentially amongst subjects that are healthy diagnosed as type II diabetic and also in an asymptomatic preclinical patient .

Similarly specific primers for the atrial natriuretic factor ANF gene were designed forward primer SEQ ID No. 5 reverse primer SEQ ID No. 6 and RT PCR analysis was performed on a drop of blood. ANF is known to be highly expressed in heart tissue biopsies and in the plasma of heart failure patients. However atrial natriuretic factor was observed to be expressed in the blood and the expression of the atrial natriuretic factor gene is significantly higher in the blood of patients with heart failure as compared to the blood of a normal control patient.

Specific primers for the zinc finger protein gene ZFP forward primer SEQ ID No. 9 reverse primer SEQ ID No. 10 were also designed and RT PCR analysis was performed on a drop of blood. ZFP is known to be high in heart tissue biopsies of cardiac hypertrophy and heart failure patients. In the present study the expression of ZFP was observed in the blood as well as differential expression levels of ZFP amongst the normal diabetic and asymptomatic preclinical subjects although neither of the non normal subjects has been specifically diagnosed as suffering from cardiac hypertrophy and or heart failure the higher expression levels of the ZFP gene in their blood may indicate that these subjects are headed in that general direction.

It was hypothesized that a housekeeping gene such as glyceraldehyde dehydrogenase GADH which is required and highly expressed in all cells would not be differentially expressed in the blood of normal vs. disease subjects. This hypothesis was confirmed by RT PCR using GADH specific primers . Thus GADH is useful as an internal control.

Standardized levels of insulin gene or ZFP gene expressed in a drop of blood were estimated using a housekeeping gene as an internal control relative to insulin or ZFP expressed . The levels of insulin gene expressed in each fractionated cell from whole blood were also standardized and shown in .

In order to further substantiate the present invention differential screening of the human blood cell cDNA library was conducted. cDNA probes derived from human blood adult heart or brain were respectively hybridized to the human blood cDNA library clones. As shown in more than 95 of the positively identified clones are identical between the blood and other tissue samples.

DNA sequencing of randomly selected clones from the human whole blood cell cDNA library was also performed. This allowed information regarding the cellular function of blood to be obtained concurrently with gene identification. More than 20 000 expressed sequence tags ESTs have been generated and characterized to date 17.6 of which did not result in a statistically significant match to entries in the GenBank databases and thus were designated as Novel ESTs. These results are summarized in together with the seven cellular functions related to percent distribution of known genes in blood and in the fetal heart.

From 20 000 ESTs 1 800 have been identified as known genes which may not all appear in the hemapoietic system. For example the insulin gene and the atrial natriuretic factor gene have not been detected in these 20 000 ESTs but their transcripts were detected in a drop of blood strongly suggesting that all transcripts of the human genome can be detected by performing RT PCR analysis on a drop of blood.

In addition approximately 400 novel genes have been identified from the 20 000 ESTs characterized to date and these will be subjected to full length sequencing and open reading frame alignment to reduce the actual number of novel ESTs prior to screening for disease markers.

Analysis of the approximately 6 283 ESTs which have known matches in the GenBank databases revealed that this dataset represents over 1 800 unique genes. These genes have been catalogued into seven cellular functions. Comparisons of this set of unique genes with ESTs derived from human brain heart lung and kidney demonstrated a greater than 50 overlap in expression Table 1 .

The results from the differential screening clearly indicate that the transcripts expressed in the whole blood are reflective of genes expressed in all cells and tissues of the body. More than 95 of detectable spots were identical from two different tissues. The remaining 5 of spots may represent cell or tissue specific transcripts however results obtained from partial sequencing to generate ESTs of these clones revealed most of them not to be cell or tissue specific transcripts. Therefore the negative spots are postulated to be reflective of low abundance transcripts in the tissue from which the cDNA probes were derived.

An alternative approach that was employed to identify transcripts expressed at low levels is the large scale generation of expressed sequence tags ESTs . There is substantial evidence regarding the efficiency of this technology to detect previously characterized known and uncharacterized unknown or novel genes expressed in the cardiovascular system Hwang Dempsey et al. 1997 . In the present invention 20 000 ESTs have been produced from a human blood cell cDNA library and resulted in the identification of approximately 1 800 unique known genes Table 2 

In the most recent GenBank release analysis of more than 300 000 ESTs in the database dbESTs generated more than 48 000 gene clusters which are thought to represent approximately 50 of the genes in the human genome. Only 4 800 of the dbESTs are blood derived. In the present invention 20 000 ESTs have been obtained to date from a human blood cDNA library which provides the world s most informative database with respect to blood cell transcripts. From the limited amount of information generated so far i.e. 1 800 unique genes it has already been determined that more than 50 of the transcripts are found in other cells or tissues of the human body Table 2 . Thus it is expected that by increasing the number of ESTs generated more genes will be identified that have an overlap in expression between the blood and other tissues. Furthermore the transcripts for several genes which are known to have tissue restricted patterns of expression i.e. MyHC APP APC ANF ZFP have also been demonstrated to be present in blood.

Most recently a cDNA library of human hematopoietic progenitor stem cells has also been constructed. From the limited set of 1 000 ESTs there are at least 200 known genes that are shared with other tissue related genes Claudio et al. 1998 .

Table 2 demonstrates the expression of known genes of specific tissues in blood cells. Previously only the presence of housekeeping genes would have been expected. Additionally the presence of at least 25 of the currently known 500 genes corresponding to molecular drug targets was detected. These molecular drug targets are used in the treatment of a variety of diseases which involve inflammation renal and cardiovascular function neoplastic disease immunomodulation and viral infection Drews Ryser 1997 . It is expected that additional novel ESTs will represent future molecular drug targets.

Every cell and tissue comprising the human body share the necessary genetic information required to maintain cellular homeostasis. These housekeeping genes function in basic cellular maintenance including energy metabolism and cellular structure in all cell types. However in certain situations even the housekeeping genes show altered expression. Thus it is necessary to define the use of these genes as internal controls from one investigation to another. Current results from the human blood cell EST database indicate that over 50 of the transcripts are widely expressed throughout the human body. Most of the cell or tissue specific genes are also detectable in blood cells by RT PCR analysis.

For example isoformic myosin heavy chain genes are known to be generally expressed in cardiac muscle tissue. In the rodent the MyHC gene is only highly expressed in the fetus and in diseased states such as overt cardiac hypertrophy heart failure and diabetes the MyHC gene is highly expressed shortly after birth and continues to be expressed in the adult heart. In the human however MyHC is highly expressed in the ventricles from the fetal stage through adulthood. This highly expressed MyHC which harbours several mutations has been demonstrated to be involved in familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy Geisterfer Lowrance et al. 1990 . It was reported that mutations of MyHC can be detected by PCR using blood lymphocyte DNA Ferrie et al. 1992 . Most recently it was also demonstrated that mutations of the myosin binding protein C in familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy can be detected in the DNA extracted from lymphocytes Niimura et al. 1998 .

Similarly APP and APC which are known to be tissue specific and predominantly expressed in the brain and intestinal tract are also detectable in the transcripts of blood. These cell or tissue specific transcripts are not detectable by Northern blot analysis. However the low number of transcript copies can be detected by RT PCR analysis. These findings strongly demonstrate that genes preferentially expressed in specific tissues can be detected by a highly sensitive RT PCR assay. In recent years evidence has been obtained to indicate that expression of cell or tissue restricted genes can be detected in the peripheral blood of patients with metastatic transitional cell carcinoma Yuasa et al. 1998 and patients with prostate cancer Gala et al. 1998 .

Atrial natriuretic factor ANF and zinc finger protein ZFP which are known to be highly expressed in heart tissue biopsies and in the plasma of heart failure patients are also detectable in the transcripts of blood. Differential expression of zinc finger protein among the normal diabetic and asymptomatic preclinical subjects may have additional value as a prophylactic early warning system . On a related note there is now more attention discussion in the cardiovascular disease field being focused on Syndrome X loosely defined as a continuum of hypertension increasing sugar levels diabetes kidney failure culminating in heart failure with the possibility of stroke and heart attack at any time in the continuum. The early identification of patients at risk of organ failure has been a challenge to the medical community for some time and the present method has the potential of resolving or at least ameliorating this challenge.

The present invention demonstrates that a simple drop of blood may be used to determine the quantitative expression of various mRNAs that reflect the health disease state of the subject through the use of RT PCR analysis. This entire process takes about three hours or less. The single drop of blood may also be used for multiple RT PCR analyses. There is no need for large samples and or costly and time consuming separation of cell types within the blood for this method as compared to the methods described by Kimoto 1998 and Chelly et al. 1989 1988 . It is believed that the present finding can potentially revolutionize the way that diseases are detected diagnosed and monitored because it provides a non invasive simple highly sensitive and quick screening for tissue specific transcripts. The transcripts detected in whole blood have potential as prognostic or diagnostic markers of disease as they reflect disturbances in homeostasis in the human body. Delineation of the sequences and or quantitation of the expression levels of these marker genes by RT PCR will allow for an immediate and accurate diagnostic prognostic test for disease or to assess the efficacy and monitor a particular therapeutic.

In addition to RT PCR other methods of amplifying may also be used for the purpose of measuring quantitating tissue specific transcripts in human blood. For example mass spectrometry may be used to quantify the transcripts Koster et al. 1996 Fu et al. 1998 . The application of presently disclosed method for detecting tissue specific transcripts in blood does not restrict to subjects undergoing course of therapy or treatment it may also be used for monitoring a patient for the onset of overt symptoms of a disease. Furthermore the present method may be used for detecting any gene transcripts in blood. A kit for diagnosing prognosing or even predicting a disease may be designed using gene specific primers or probes derived from a whole blood sample for a specific disease and applied directly to a drop of blood. A cDNA library specific for a disease may be generated from whole blood samples and used for diagnosis prognosis or even predicting a disease.

Any patents or publications mentioned in this specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. Further these patents and publications are incorporated by reference herein to the same extent as if each individual publication was specifically and individually indicated to be incorporated by reference.

One skilled in the art will appreciate readily that the present invention is well adapted to carry out the objects and obtain the ends and advantages mentioned as well as those objects ends and advantages inherent herein. The present examples along with the methods procedures treatments molecules and specific compounds described herein are presently representative of preferred embodiments are exemplary and are not intended as limitations on the scope of the invention. Changes therein and other uses will occur to those skilled in the art which are encompassed within the spirit of the invention as defined by the scope of the claims.

