---

title: Systems and methods for situational application development and deployment with patient event monitoring
abstract: Systems and methods for clinical event processing with situational awareness to dynamically facilitate a clinician's workflow are provided. An example clinical event processing and situational awareness system includes a clinical event processor including a clinical event processing engine and a routing engine to receive information regarding a clinical event from an event source and to process the information regarding the clinical event to determine a clinical situation based on the clinical event. The system also includes an event handler to enrich the processed information regarding the clinical event by adding a clinical context to the processed information from a data source. The system further includes a dispatcher to notify a user and launch an anticipated application for the user to facilitate a situational aware clinical workflow based on the enriched, processed information regarding the clinical event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09052809&OS=09052809&RS=09052809
owner: General Electric Company
number: 09052809
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100526
---
Hospitals and clinicians today are facing pressure to deliver high quality patient care prevent adverse events errors and implement clinical best practices while reducing the cost of healthcare delivery. Furthermore hospitals can face dramatic variation in clinical demand and are increasingly likely to be declined reimbursement when patient care falls short. Hospitals that operate at or over capacity may experience heightened rates of safety events. Current support is provided based on anticipated static events and do not account for chaos and unpredictability associated with many medical events.

Certain embodiments of the present invention provide systems and methods for clinical event processing with situational awareness to dynamically facilitate a clinician s workflow.

Certain examples provide a computer implemented method for deploying clinical applications with situational awareness. The method includes receiving information regarding a clinical event from one or more event sources processing using a processor the information regarding the clinical event to determine a clinical situation based on the clinical event adding using the processor a clinical context to enrich the information regarding the clinical event and providing a clinical application to a user in anticipation of a workflow involving the clinical situation.

Certain examples provide a clinical event processing and situational awareness system. The system includes a clinical event processor including a clinical event processing engine and a routing engine to receive information regarding a clinical event from one or more event sources and to process the information regarding the clinical event to determine a clinical situation based on the clinical event. The system also includes an event handler to enrich the processed information regarding the clinical event by adding a clinical context to the processed information from a data source. The system further includes a dispatcher to notify a user and enable launch of an anticipated application for the user to facilitate a situational aware clinical workflow based on the enriched processed information regarding the clinical event.

Certain examples provide a tangible computer readable storage medium having a set of instructions stored thereon which when executed instruct a processor to implement a clinical event processing and situational awareness system. The system includes a clinical event processor including a clinical event processing engine and a routing engine to receive information regarding a clinical event from one or more event sources and to process the information regarding the clinical event to determine a clinical situation based on the clinical event. The system also includes an event handler to enrich the processed information regarding the clinical event by adding a clinical context to the processed information from a data source. The system further includes a dispatcher to notify a user and launch an anticipated application for the user to facilitate a situational aware clinical workflow based on the enriched processed information regarding the clinical event.

The foregoing summary as well as the following detailed description of certain embodiments of the present invention will be better understood when read in conjunction with the appended drawings. For the purpose of illustrating the invention certain embodiments are shown in the drawings. It should be understood however that the present invention is not limited to the arrangements and instrumentality shown in the attached drawings.

Although the following discloses example methods systems articles of manufacture and apparatus including among other components software executed on hardware it should be noted that such methods and apparatus are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these hardware and software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Accordingly while the following describes example methods systems articles of manufacture and apparatus the examples provided are not the only way to implement such methods systems articles of manufacture and apparatus.

When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the elements in an at least one example is hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. storing the software and or firmware.

Certain examples provide a software development and deployment platform that enables development usage and support of situational healthcare applications that have situation awareness. Such applications help enable healthcare providers to respond quickly to events by providing access to the right information and right tools at the right time. Situational healthcare applications are developed quickly by users that are closest to the healthcare delivery organizations and are easy to use focused on specific business problems.

Hospitals and clinicians today are facing enormous pressures to deliver high quality patient care prevent adverse events errors and implement clinical best practices while reducing the cost of healthcare delivery. Furthermore hospitals can face dramatic variation in clinical demand and increasingly face the likelihood of being turned down for reimbursement when patient care falls short. It has been proven that hospitals that operate at or over capacity may experience heightened rates of safety events and might consider re engineering the structures of care to respond better during periods of high stress.

Healthcare information technology IT systems can help hospitals overcome many of these challenges. To this end clinicians need clinical data in real time so that they can respond to an event as quickly as possible to prevent or reduce any adverse impact. Real time alerts and escalations in hospitals can lead to forecasting detecting and correcting adverse development in patient status. The alerts can impact outcomes such as lengths of stay criticality of event survival and death. However the clinicians time to interact with IT systems is limited especially under periods of stress. They need access to the right information and the right tool at the right time.

Many state of the art Clinical Information Systems today can provide the alerting clinical decision support and best practice guidance which can result in better outcome and improved healthcare delivery. However more often these applications are built where events are anticipated and planned for while healthcare delivery can at times be chaotic. Certain examples described herein provide an advantage over traditional clinical information system by providing a situational application platform specifically designed to handle uncertainty and change. In busy healthcare delivery organizations decisions are made as closely as possible to the time when actions must be taken. Doctors often must make decisions on the spot consistent with the patients needs and they have limited time to interact with computers. Responses have to be determined on the fly.

Situational awareness SA involves being aware of what is happening around you to understand how information events and your own actions will impact your goals and objectives both now and in the near future. Certain examples attempt to anticipate a clinician s responses to various events via situational awareness logic and provide a simplified e.g. one click access to the right workflow applications for the given situations. This reduces the doctor s interaction time with computers.

Certain examples can be provided as a standalone product or can be bundled with other clinical information system s and or medical device s . Certain examples provide an adaptive workflow enhancement tool. Certain examples provide synergies between medical device and healthcare IT products. The situational platform enables healthcare providers to create innovative solutions themselves promote the solutions and share the solutions with others. The extensible development platform can be a catalyst for partnerships and can provide an ecosystem for customer collaboration for example.

Situational awareness can be employed for a variety of purposes in healthcare. For example situational awareness can be used in disease detection and surveillance Health Alert Networks e.g. the Center for Disease Control CDC and state health departments sending alerts to clinicians news and Web trawling e.g. mining global news for disease reports bed tracking patient tracking incident command systems electronic health records with alerting and decision support etc.

Certain examples provide situational awareness along with a situational awareness platform narrowed to the healthcare domain to provide workflows for clinicians in anticipation of a response to a given event.

Healthcare SAs can help provide quick solutions for unanticipated and unplanned events where traditional applications have been built for which events and responses are planned and anticipated. In certain examples healthcare SAs utilize mashups . A mashup is built by taking multiple disparate data sources and creating a new data source. For example mashups allow users to take maps charts videos and data and mash them together into a visually interesting experience for the user.

In certain examples a focus is on clinical event processing and situation detection rather than data aggregation from Internet sources. Additionally certain examples provide Situation Awareness which relates to a perception of an environment critical to decision makers in complex dynamic areas. Furthermore certain examples leverage Complex Event Processing CEP . CEP is a technology used to detect complex patterns of many events event correlation and abstraction event hierarchies and relationships between events such as causality membership and timing and event driven processes.

In certain examples events from multiple event sources are processed see e.g. and other examples described below . Certain examples provide post processing of events alerts that can be generated by clinical decision support CDS systems and or other sources and can correlate multiple events and series of complex events. Situational awareness logic provides an ability for physicians to tailor alert notification to their specific workflows to avoid alert fatigue whereby the physician starts tuning out alerts because of their constant volume for example.

Turning to a high level overview of an example situational awareness platform is shown. The platform includes a clinical event processing and situational awareness infrastructure platform event routes scripts rules logical components a situational clinical application integrated development environment and situational clinical applications .

The runtime Clinical Event Processing and Situational Awareness infrastructure platform executes Clinical Event Processing Language CEPL scripts routes events and evaluates situational awareness rules . The layer surrounding this infrastructure includes logical components . Logical components include abstract building blocks that are used by non programmers to wire together situational applications using the Integrated Development Environment . Logical components in the layer surrounding the infrastructure include event sources data sources programmable situation detectors context enrichers and references to external content such as web applications portlets and mashups.

For example event sources include various event sources e.g. patient monitors hospital information systems document registries order systems schedulers etc. that can trigger issuance of alerts and evaluation of complex event series. Data sources include web services to electronic health records clinical data repositories electronic health records virtual medical records etc. Programmable situation detectors include reusable complex event processing scripts for detecting combination of events or event patterns and for further querying data sources and evaluating responses. Context enrichers include components for adding additional contextual information to event messages. References include references to web applications mobile apps and mashups. The logical components layer also includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs which enable programmers and partners to add additional components and extensions.

The Situational Clinical Application Integrated Development Environment enables non programmers to implement healthcare specific situational applications which also have some situation awareness. An example of such an application is shown in .

In certain examples a mobile device such as a smart phone e.g. a BlackBerry iPhone etc. or a tablet based or other small form factor computer e.g. an iPad can be enabled with situation awareness. As shown for example in a situational aware workflow is facilitated using a smart phone mobile device. At a Patient Alert application deployed on a smart phone notifies a doctor who touches the display to view the alert message. To respond to the event at the doctor makes a simple touch screen gesture or click on an item on the screen for example. At based on item selection by the user the smart phone knows which application from a group of available applications to load next to allow the doctor to respond to the event as quickly as possible. As shown in this example there are several different workflow applications which the doctor might want to use. However because situation awareness is enabled the most desirable application is loaded.

A variation of this scenario is shown in . In the example workflow a doctor can browse through a patient s medical information in a prioritized order that fits a particular situation and patient status or condition. Prioritization can be facilitated using situation awareness. As shown for example in a situational aware workflow is facilitated using a smart phone mobile device. At a patient alert application deployed on a smart phone notifies a doctor who touches the display to view the alert message. To respond to the event at the doctor makes a simple touch screen gesture or click on an item on the screen for example. At based on item e.g. patient selection by the user the smart phone loads an appropriate application providing access to health information for the patient that is present to the doctor via the smart phone in a prioritized order. The order allows the clinician to quickly browse through the patient s information such as lab results images clinical lists etc. In some examples a chain of viewer applications can be provided together e.g. using a ribbon control in prioritized order to allow the clinician to quickly browse through patient lab results images clinical lists etc.

The following are some other examples of healthcare specific situational applications which can be built using systems and methods disclosed herein.

One example use case is laboratory test results notification. An opportunity for workflow improvement within a hospital involves coordinating results from the laboratory with a patient s antibiotics and isolation status. If an organism is identified that requires a patient to be isolated the situationally aware application automatically begins a process that simultaneously communicates to nursing admissions the physician and the housekeeping staff so the patient is quickly moved to an isolation room limiting others exposure. Furthermore abnormal laboratory test results for a patient with abdominal pain can allow the clinician through a single click or gesture to retrieve relevant information such as the patient s white blood cell count serum amylase and images from an abdominal ultrasound. The situationally aware clinical application can also assemble the most likely orders the clinician might chose including those that comply with adopted guidelines.

Another example use case is a situation in which a patient is crashing. A situationally aware event processing application can be built which monitors alerts from bedside medical devices such as patient monitors pulse oximetry ventilators etc. The alerts can be provided in the form of heart rate changes low SpO2 Tachycardia heart beating too fast Bradycardia heart beating too slow respiration rates changes electrocardiogram ECG information ventilator disconnects etc. Complex event processing logic can evaluate series of these events over time and rapidly determine whether the patient is crashing or is about to crash. An attending physician and nursing staff can then be alerted and provided with information about the patient current location and critical care information. This would be an additional level of alerting on top of what is already provided by the devices themselves.

Another example use case is stroke patient coordination. In stroke patient coordination it is beneficial to coordinate care in the emergency department ED with urgent studies in radiology. When a patient comes to the ED with a possible stroke there is a very short time span in which treatment can effectively reverse its effects. This requires coordination between the ED personnel who must evaluate the patient and the radiology department where a procedure is needed to rule out a ruptured blood vessel. The situationally aware application alerts ED personnel to the risk of stroke so that the patient is assessed promptly and also alerts radiology personnel so they can conduct and interpret a computed tomography CT scan immediately. The SA clinical application can also help to reschedule other radiology patients that may need to be delayed to accommodate the emergency and can coordinate clot busting medication for immediate administration to the ED patient.

Another example use case is escalations for overdue orders. A situationally aware clinical application can automatically escalate clinical orders to a next clinician on staff if the order is not carried out within an assigned timeframe so that patients receive care when they need it. The system recognizes a patient s diagnosis and pre populates order sets based on that information presenting the clinician with the most logical choices and making it easier to make the right decision.

The IDE includes a toolbar that can be expanded to view individual tools and a canvas including a plurality of columns for trigger events rules for detecting situations context enrichers and alerts and rules for an anticipated response . Using drag and drop operations components can be wired or linked together to form processing flows and situational applications. Situational applications are generated by dragging tools e.g. event sources data sources situation detectors context enrichers workflow applications etc. from the toolbox and dropping them onto the canvas . These tools are then wired or linked together to form event processing pipes.

The example shown on illustrates how a laboratory test results notification use case described above can be implemented. Trigger events include a document availability event source that receives notification events from a notification broker connected to a document source e.g. a Cross Enterprise Document Sharing XDS based document registry whenever lab results are registered. Event processing includes a situation detector for lab testing that invokes the XDS based document registry to evaluate the content of the lab results. The lab results detector can be implemented as a rule based message router for example. The router can be a dynamic router that can self configure based on special configuration messages from participating destinations for example. An alert event message is generated and routed to respective event handlers depending upon the result such as contagious disease abnormal test result and normal test result . As part of context enrichment the event message is further enriched with patient context and or diagnosis information depending upon the detected situation.

An anticipated workflow application uniform resource indicator URI e.g. a link is added to the event message before it is sent to subscribing users. For example a contagious disease alert with patient context can be routed to an application to notify nursing staff of the contagious disease patient and or an isolate patient application to isolate the contagious patient from other patients and personnel. As another example an abnormal test result alert with a patient diagnosis can be routed to a view lab results application and then to a view disease specific chart summary . As another example a normal test result alert including patient context is sent to a notifying attending physician application .

The IDE includes a toolbar that can be expanded to view individual tools and a canvas including a plurality of columns for trigger events situation detectors context enrichers and alerts and anticipated response workflow applications . Using drag and drop operations components can be wired or linked together to form processing flows and situational applications. Situational applications are generated by dragging tools e.g. event sources data sources situation detectors context enrichers workflow applications etc. from the toolbox and dropping them onto the canvas . These tools are then wired or linked together to form event processing pipes.

Trigger events include ventilator disconnect Tachycardia Bradycardia heart rate change and low SpO2 . The trigger event sources are connected to situation detectors including broadcast alerts and patient crash detector . The detectors provide instructions for a complex event processing engine which detects patterns in the incoming event streams . For example ventilator disconnect Tachycardia and Bradycardia events trigger broadcast notifications to nursing staff and clinicians. The event message from broadcast alert is enriched with the patient s location bed number etc. and linked to a patient locator application . The heart rate change and low SpO2 events are evaluated using the patient crash detector to determine if the patient is crashing or about to crash. Crash detection alerts are enriched with patient location information and diagnosis information and linked to a patient locator application along with a disease specific chart summary view .

In certain examples once a clinical situation application has been created using the IDE the application can be published shared with others modified and copied.

Event channel adapters include a plurality of adapters along with a terminology to aid in understanding and conversion of event source information for the platform . Events are adapted and routed to the clinical event processing kernel . The kernel includes a routing and mediation engine and a clinical event processing engine . The clinical event processing engine receives adapted event information from the event channel adapters . The clinical event processing engine includes a clinical event language processor and an event processing engine . The event processing engine includes a simple event processor and a complex event series processor . The event processing engine interacts with an event history for example.

The clinical event processing kernel provides information regarding the processed event s to the event handler . The event handler includes data sources patient information enrichers clinical information enrichers and a rules engine . The rules engine includes a link or connection to application rules for example and communicates with an application even registry for example. The data source in the event handler can communicate with an external data source for example. The patient information enricher of the event handler can communicate with an external patient registry for example. The clinical information enricher of the event handler can communicate with an external clinical data source for example.

The rules engine of the clinical event processing engine provides event handling information to the publish subscribe engine . The publish subscribe engine includes a publisher a subscriber and an event dispatcher for example. The event dispatcher transmits an intelligent event to the client event receiver application . The client event receiver application launches an anticipated application just in time. The application event registry can also communicate with the client workflow application .

The event sources are examples of healthcare information technology IT applications that can be integrated with the system . These event source applications are integrated via event channels and adapters according to enterprise integration patterns. The terminology database stores clinical concepts such as device parameters and value sets exposed by the IDE and the event sources to facilitate integration.

The clinical event processing kernel includes the complex event processing CEP engine such as an Esper CEP engine. The CEP engine is adapted for the healthcare domain via the clinical event language processor which is responsible for translating between a user friendly domain specific language and the more generic Event Processing Language EPL . The event history database is used by the complex event processing engine to reference historical events. The routing and mediation engine enables the event processing flows to be wired together using the situational application IDE discussed above .

Event handling action components such as the rules engine and content enrichers leverage healthcare standards such as Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise IHE Patient Identifier Cross Referencing PIX Patient Demographics Query PDQ and or Query for Existing Data QED profiles to integrate with clinical data sources and EHR systems. The application and event registry utilized by the rules engine is a registry of workflow applications mapped to events alerts.

The content enricher uses information inside an incoming message e.g. key fields to retrieve data from an external source . After the content enricher retrieves the required data from the resource the enricher appends the data to the message. The original information from the incoming message may be carried over into the resulting message or may no longer be needed depending on the receiving application.

A publish subscribe infrastructure is connected to an event dispatcher which transmits the event alert messages to subscribing client applications event receiver applications over a desired protocol e.g. Web Services WS Notification e mail Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP etc. . As examples the client application can be a smart phone application an instant messaging type application an in box a clinical information system etc.

In certain examples a mobile device such as an iPhone iPod iPad BlackBerry etc. can be used to allow a user to display and interact with clinical content stored on one or more clinical systems via the mobile device. A user can manipulate content access different content and collaborate with other users to analyze and report on exams and other medical content. In some examples a change in device orientation and or position results in a change in device mode and set of available tools without closing or losing the patient context and previous screen s of patient information. Images can be manipulated annotated highlighted and measured via the device. Enterprise functionality and real time collaboration are provided such that the user can collaborate on a document in real time with other users as well as access content from systems such as a radiology information system RIS picture archiving and communication system PACS hospital information system HIS electronic medical record EMR cardiovascular information system CVIS laboratory information system LIS etc. and make changes via the mobile device. The Situational Clinical Application IDE and clinical event processing and situational awareness system .

The mobile device can display and interact with medical content via a plurality of modes. Each mode includes different content and associated tools. Each of the plurality of modes is accessible based on a change in orientation and or position of the device while maintaining a patient context across modes. The mobile device also includes medical content analysis capability for display manipulation and annotation of medical content and real time sharing of the content for user collaboration using multi touch control by the user. The mobile device communicates with one or more clinical systems to access and modify information from the one or more clinical systems in substantially real time.

The mobile device can be used to facilitate user workflow. For example the mobile device uses an accelerometer and or global positioning sensor and or other positional motion indicator to allow a user to navigate through different screens of patient content and functionality. The mobile device removes the requirement of using a user interface control to select between different screens. For example multi touch capability is provided to manipulate and modify content. Using multi touch a user can draw shapes and annotate to generate measurements highlight abnormal structure and or add textual comments to an image for example. Via the mobile device a user can input and or manipulate without adding external input devices. The position and motion sensor s are used to manipulate the navigation direction in the colonoscopy and or the navigation speed for example.

In certain examples the mobile device provides enhance resetability for the user. For example the device can undo erase and or reset end user changes to default setting by tracking a device s position and or orientation and responding to changes to the position orientation. The device can undo and restart without additional user interface control input. The device can adjust a threshold parameter through user feedback for example e.g. a current setting may be too sensitive to normal movement of the device when carried or held by a user .

Certain examples integrate enterprise functions into a mobile device. For example functionality such as a directory calendar geographic location phone services text message email etc. can be provided via the mobile device. Clinical information from various sources such as PACS HIS RIS EMR CVIS LIS etc. can be provided via the mobile device. The mobile device interface can facilitate real time collaboration with other end users. Information sharing and recording can be facilitated using multiple media services in real time or substantially real time for example. The mobile device allows the user to focus on patient information and analysis while collaborating with one or more end users without switching or leaving the clinical context being reviewed as well as exchanging medical data without losing the current state of the clinical context for example. The mobile device provides a unified communication collaboration point that can query and access information throughout different information systems for example.

Certain examples facilitate user authentication via the mobile device. For example the mobile device can authenticate a user s access to sensitive and or private information. In certain embodiments user authentication at the mobile device does not require the user to enter an identifier and password. Instead the user is known and the mobile device verifies if the current user is authorized for the particular content application. Authentication is based on a unique identification number for the device a connectivity parameter and a PIN number for the user to enter for example.

In some examples a user is provided with an ability to share findings and a walk through of the findings using a smartphone e.g. BlackBerry iPhone etc. or other handheld device such as an iPod or iPad . Doctors can discuss the findings with the patient by replaying the reading for example. In some examples a user is provided with an ability to have a second opinion on the findings from a specialist and or another radiologist without being in proximity to a workstation. The reading radiologist can contact a specialist for a second opinion and to provide feedback e.g. commentaries and or annotations on the same procedures. The first physician can review and acknowledge or edit e.g. a document review with tracking changes the second radiologist s annotation.

For example the system can facilitate a situationally aware workflow for a clinician via the clinical system such as via a smart phone device e.g. a BlackBerry iPhone etc. or a tablet based or other small form factor computer e.g. an iPad . Based on events and or other information retrieved from the data source the clinical event processing and situational awareness system processes and deploys a patient alert application to the clinical system to notify a clinician of a patient alert event. Based on a selection by the clinician via the clinical system an application is loaded to allow the clinician to quickly respond to the event. The application is selected by the system from several available applications based on the event s and or other data that triggered the notification situation detection processing the trigger s and context added to enrich the event trigger s . In some examples patient information and or workflow application options can be provided to the clinician for browsing review in a prioritized order based on the particular situation and patient status condition. Prioritization can be facilitated using situation awareness. The prioritized order allows the clinician to quickly browse through the patient s information such as lab results images clinical lists etc. In some examples a chain of clinical workflow applications can be provided together e.g. using a ribbon control in prioritized order to allow the clinician to quickly browse through patient lab results images clinical lists etc. and available options for subsequent diagnosis and or treatment.

Alternatively some or all of the example processes of may be implemented using any combination s of application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s discrete logic hardware firmware etc. Also some or all of the example processes of may be implemented manually or as any combination s of any of the foregoing techniques for example any combination of firmware software discrete logic and or hardware. Further although the example processes of are described with reference to the flow diagram of other methods of implementing the processes of may be employed. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated sub divided or combined. Additionally any or all of the example processes of may be performed sequentially and or in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc.

Referring to at a situational aware clinical application is developed. The application can be developed using a development environment such as the integrated development environment and or described above. At the clinical SA application is deployed. For example the developed application is made available to a clinical user via a personal computer and or mobile device e.g. a smart phone .

At event information is received. For example a sensor monitor and or clinical system can trigger an alert regarding a patient condition e.g. heart attack stroke blood pressure increase lab results upcoming exam etc. that is routed to the user via the clinical SA application. At a patient context is added to the event information. For example patient medical history information can be added to the current patient condition information. Patient location information can also be added to the event information for example. By adding additional context around the event a more accurate and or more appropriate determination can be made dynamically regarding a next action in response to the event.

At a next application is launched for the user. For example based on the event and added context a determination is made on the fly to launch a next application to facilitate the user s workflow with respect to the patient. The application can be launched in conjunction with an EMR an imaging system a clinical information system etc. to facilitate the clinical workflow.

As described herein the method can be implemented using the mobile device in one or more combinations of hardware software and or firmware for example. The method can operate with the mobile device in conjunction with one or more external systems e.g. data sources healthcare information systems RIS PACS CVIS HIS EMR etc. archives imaging modalities etc. . One or more components of the method can be reordered eliminated and or repeated based on a particular implementation for example.

The processor of is coupled to a chipset which includes a memory controller and an input output I O controller . As is well known a chipset typically provides I O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and or special purpose registers timers etc. that are accessible or used by one or more processors coupled to the chipset . The memory controller performs functions that enable the processor or processors if there are multiple processors to access a system memory and a mass storage memory .

The system memory can include any desired type of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM flash memory read only memory ROM etc. The mass storage memory can include any desired type of mass storage device including hard disk drives optical drives tape storage devices etc.

The I O controller performs functions that enable the processor to communicate with peripheral input output I O devices and and a network interface via an I O bus . The I O devices and can be any desired type of I O device such as for example a keyboard a video display or monitor a mouse etc. The network interface may be for example an Ethernet device an asynchronous transfer mode ATM device an 802.11 device a DSL modem a cable modem a cellular modem etc. that enables the processor system to communicate with another processor system.

While the memory controller and the I O controller are depicted in as separate blocks within the chipset the functions performed by these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits.

Thus certain examples provide systems and methods for adaptive workflow enhancement. Certain examples provide a software development and deployment platform that enables development usage and support of situational healthcare applications that have situation awareness. Such applications help enable healthcare providers to respond quickly to events by providing access to the right information and right tools at the right time. Situational healthcare applications are developed quickly by users that are closest to the healthcare delivery organizations and are easy to use focused on specific business problems.

Situational awareness application development deployment and support provides synergies between medical devices and healthcare IT products. The situational platform enables healthcare providers to create innovative solutions themselves promote them and share them with others. The extensible development platform can serve as a catalyst for partnerships and provide an ecosystem for customer collaborations.

Certain embodiments contemplate methods systems and computer program products on any machine readable media to implement functionality described above. Certain embodiments may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired and or firmware system for example.

One or more of the components of the systems and or steps of the methods described above may be implemented alone or in combination in hardware firmware and or as a set of instructions in software for example. Certain embodiments may be provided as a set of instructions residing on a computer readable medium such as a memory hard disk DVD or CD for execution on a general purpose computer or other processing device. Certain embodiments of the present invention may omit one or more of the method steps and or perform the steps in a different order than the order listed. For example some steps may not be performed in certain embodiments of the present invention. As a further example certain steps may be performed in a different temporal order including simultaneously than listed above.

Certain embodiments include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such computer readable media may comprise RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM Flash CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of certain methods and systems disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

An exemplary system for implementing the overall system or portions of embodiments of the invention might include a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit. The system memory may include read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . The computer may also include a magnetic hard disk drive for reading from and writing to a magnetic hard disk a magnetic disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable magnetic disk and an optical disk drive for reading from or writing to a removable optical disk such as a CD ROM or other optical media. The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of computer executable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer.

While the invention has been described with reference to certain embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from its scope. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

