---

title: Long term workflow management
abstract: A workflow may be moved from one provider to another provider by extracting the metadata from an executing workflow describing the workflow state as part of dehydrating the workflow, and transferring the metadata to a second workflow and rehydrating the workflow at a second provider. An automated workflow manager may determine when to move the workflow and may facilitate moving with or without human intervention. When a workflow is moved from one provider to another, the workflow state may be moved without transferring executable code that executes the workflow.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08812403&OS=08812403&RS=08812403
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08812403
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101108
---
Long running workflows and services may execute for many minutes days months or even years. An example of a long running workflow may be an online agent that constantly searches for products or information that meet certain criteria or an expense report system that processes a company s expense reports. Over time the workflows may experience hardware availability change of ownership of a service provider or other events.

A workflow may be moved from one provider to another provider by extracting the metadata from an executing workflow describing the workflow state as part of dehydrating the workflow and transferring the metadata to a second workflow and rehydrating the workflow at a second provider. An automated workflow manager may determine when to move the workflow and may facilitate moving with or without human intervention. When a workflow is moved from one provider to another the workflow state may be moved without transferring executable code that executes the workflow.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A workflow may be moved from one workflow provider to a second workflow provider by transferring the workflow state between the providers. The workflow state may be transferred so that the second workflow provider may resume the workflow without losing work items being processed by the workflow.

A workflow may be a sequence of work steps that may be executed by a computer system and may operate on work items. The sequence of work steps may or may not be exactly the same between the two workflow providers and the workflow providers may or may not share the same executable code.

A workflow may include steps that operate automatically and steps that include human interaction. For example a workflow that processes travel expense reports may include a work step that involves a human to review and approve certain expenses in certain conditions.

The workflow may be a long running workflow that may operate for months or even years. By having the ability to move the workflow from one provider to another an administrator may have the flexibility to change providers to achieve lower costs or better service or to change providers in the event that a current provider goes out of business or for some other reason. The workflow may be moved without losing the workflow state so that work may not be lost or compromised when transferring to another provider.

Throughout this specification and claims the term workflow is used to designate a service performed by a workflow provider that may contain one or more work steps. The service may be a workflow application which may be a software application which automates at least to some degree a process or processes. The processes may be any process that can be defined in a series of steps that may be automated using software. In many embodiments a workflow may be business related. Some steps of the process may require human intervention such as an approval or the addition of specific information but functions that can be automated may generally be handled by the workflow application.

As an example of a workflow a purchase order may move through various departments for authorization and eventual purchase. The order may be automatically moved from department to department for approval by human members of a department. In some cases a department may perform an automated analysis to approve or disapprove the purchase order. When all authorizations are obtained the requester of the purchase order may be notified and given authorization to make the purchase. A workflow process may involve change and update. For example the normal approver of purchase orders may be on vacation in which case the application may request approval from alternate approvers.

Throughout this specification like reference numbers signify the same elements throughout the description of the figures.

When elements are referred to as being connected or coupled the elements can be directly connected or coupled together or one or more intervening elements may also be present. In contrast when elements are referred to as being directly connected or directly coupled there are no intervening elements present.

The subject matter may be embodied as devices systems methods and or computer program products. Accordingly some or all of the subject matter may be embodied in hardware and or in software including firmware resident software micro code state machines gate arrays etc. Furthermore the subject matter may take the form of a computer program product on a computer usable or computer readable storage medium having computer usable or computer readable program code embodied in the medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device.

The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media and communication media.

Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and may be accessed by an instruction execution system. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium can be paper or other suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other suitable medium then compiled interpreted of otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal can be defined as a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above mentioned should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

When the subject matter is embodied in the general context of computer executable instructions the embodiment may comprise program modules executed by one or more systems computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

The diagram of illustrates functional components of a system. In some cases the component may be a hardware component a software component or a combination of hardware and software. Some of the components may be application level software while other components may be operating system level components. In some cases the connection of one component to another may be a close connection where two or more components are operating on a single hardware platform. In other cases the connections may be made over network connections spanning long distances. Each embodiment may use different hardware software and interconnection architectures to achieve the described functions.

Embodiment is an example embodiment showing a device and two workflow providers and that are connected through a network . The device may have a workflow manager that may be capable of moving a workflow from one workflow provider to another. The operations of moving a workflow from one provider to another may be a component in an automated system for managing workflows.

Some workflows may be long running and may stay active and operational for days weeks months or even years. During such a long time the workflow service provider may go out of business be acquired raise their rates change their service level agreements change the geography in which a workflow is run and or stored suffer performance problems or have other issues that may cause a workflow owner or user to desire to have the workflow transferred to another provider.

In some instances a workflow may be moved from one provider to another with changes to the rate structures which may vary with the time of day or current workflow. In such instances an automated workflow manager may monitor the current costs of a workflow provider and compare the costs to another workflow provider and may move the workflow between providers to achieve a best cost. In some such embodiments an automated workflow manager may transfer a workflow between several workflow providers multiple times per day.

A workflow manager may transfer a workflow between providers by transferring the workflow state from one provider to another. The workflow state may define the items in process as well as any items in queue for processing along with the results of any processed items. The workflow state may also include customizations or specialized settings that may be applied to the workflow to adapt the workflow for a particular user.

In some cases the representation of a workflow on one workflow provider may not be exactly the same as the workflow available on a second provider. In such cases the state from one workflow may be transformed translated converted or otherwise processed so that the state may match the state on a destination workflow provider. In some such embodiments a schema may be defined for each workflow and a translator or converter may convert the state from one workflow provider to be compatible with another workflow provider.

In general a workflow may be transferred from one workflow provider without having to transfer all of the executable code associated with the workflow. In some cases a portion of the executable code associated with a workflow may be transferred to another workflow provider.

When a workflow is transferred the state of the workflow may be transferred and the state may be used by the workflow provider receiving the workflow to rehydrate the workflow. Prior to transferring the workflow the workflow may be dehydrated by causing the processes being performed to be halted and the state of those processes captured.

A workflow may be executed by a workflow engine that may be a software application that may manage and execute modeled computer processes. The workflow engine may interpret events such as documents submitted to a server or due dates expiring and may act on the events according to defined computer processes. The events may be considered work items processed by the workflow. The actions may be for example saving a document in a document management system or issuing new work by sending an e mail to users or escalating overdue work items to management. A workflow engine may facilitate the flow of information tasks and events. In some embodiments workflow engines may also be referred to as a Workflow Orchestration Engines.

Many workflows may be designed to process various work items. In a document centric workflow a document may be a work item that may be processed. In an event centric workflow an event or group of events may be a work item. Other embodiments may have different types of work items.

Each workflow may be defined by a series of work steps. In many workflow languages the steps may be distinct decision points or operations that may be performed. In some instances the operations may be performed on the work item itself or may spawn other actions that may not affect the work item.

Workflows may be defined with various decision points and branches. The decision points or branches may allow various options or conditions to be assessed and the workflow may change paths based on the decision points. In many embodiments a decision point may be defined in the form of an IF THEN ELSE statement or other decision mechanisms may be used.

In some embodiments workflows may be defined using specialized workflow definition languages such as XPDL BPEL BPMN ASAP Wf XML Windows Workflow Foundation and others. In some embodiments the workflows may be defined in a language that may be interpreted while other embodiments the workflows may be defined in a compiled language. Some embodiments may have graphical mechanisms for defining workflows using graphical flowcharts or other mechanisms.

In still other embodiments the workflows may be defined in a manner that may not be exposed to a user. In such embodiments the workflow may receive requests and respond with results. The requests may contain a work item to process and the workflow may return some type of results. Such embodiments may operate as an Application Programming Interface API .

In some embodiments a workflow may be transferred in stages. A staged transfer of a workflow may be useful in embodiments where work items may be in a state that may be non transferrable. In such embodiments the first workflow may be allowed to continue to process work items that are still in process until either the work items are completed or brought to a state where the work items may be transferred.

In some staged transfers a workflow may be moved by first redirecting any new requests to the new workflow provider then notifying the existing workflow provider to begin a shutdown operation. The shutdown operation may allow existing work items to execute to completion or may process work items to a point where the work items may be transferred to the new workflow provider. In some such embodiments work items may be transferred to a new workflow provider when the work items have not been processed to completion.

In one example a search workflow may be defined that searches the Internet weblogs scientific journals financial and business literature or some other group of publications for specific set of keywords or relating to specific subjects. The search workflow may be configured to identify a matching publication and transmit a summary of the publication to a user s email. Over time the search workflow may refine the search terms by receiving feedback from the user for the search results. In such an example the search workflow may identify a publication and transmit the publication to the user then receive feedback from the user as to the relevance of the publication. The work item may be the search result and feedback response and the state of the workflow may be the current search terms the most recent results the frequency at which to perform the search and other items.

When such a workflow is transferred to another workflow provider the workflow providers may each be a specialized search engine with separate and proprietary search algorithms. The workload may be transferred by retrieving the workload state from the first workflow provider which may include the current search terms weighting for the search terms scope of search frequency of search email addresses for the recipients and other parameters. Those parameters may be transferred to the new workload provider which may be another search engine. The new search engine may receive the parameters and begin performing the search.

The search engine workflow may be a simple workflow but an example of a workflow that may be operational for many weeks months or even years. For search engines that search specialized databases a user may pay a subscription fee. An automated workflow manager may analyze the subscription fees between two workflow providers and may determine that the workflow may be transferred from one provider to another when a periodic subscription may be due for renewal for example.

In some embodiments the parameters from one workflow may be translated converted or otherwise modified to match parameters used by the receiving workflow. In some cases the parameters may be readily translated or reformatted to match a schema defined for the receiving workflow. In other cases an executable process may perform complex translations from one schema to another.

In another example a workflow provider may provide a workflow for managing expense reports for a business. In such an example employees of a company may submit expenses for business trips to the workflow and those expenses may be analyzed by the workflow and sent to various people within the business for approval. In the workflow certain types of expenses may be approved by different managers and certain employees may be granted higher or lower limits on the types of approved expenses. Within the workflow the expenses may be analyzed to determine which managers are authorized to approve the expenses and the workflow may route the expenses to the appropriate manager for approval. The workflow may detect that a manager may be unavailable and may route the expenses to an alternate manager. When the expenses are approved the workflow may pay the expenses by transferring money from various accounts and paying the employee.

In such an example the work items for the workflow may be individual expense reports. The workflow may manage communication between the various approval managers and maintain a database of in process expense reports as well as financial accounts for different types of expenses and various rules that may be periodically updated that define which managers are authorized to approve which expenses.

An automated workflow manager may transfer such a workflow to another provider when there may be a cost advantage to change providers or when a new provider may have an improved workflow that has additional features not available in a current workflow among other conditions.

In transferring such a workflow an automated workflow manager may configure the new workflow provider by requesting a workflow state from the existing workflow provider. The workflow state may be transferred in two parts. In the first part the workflow state may include parameters defining how the first workflow behaves and input from actors engaged in the workflow both human and software or machine driven. In the example the first part may include email addresses of the various managers their approval limits and conditions and whether they have opted to approve or reject the expenses on the report. The first set of workflow state may be transferred to the new workflow provider and used to configure the new workflow provider to accept new work items.

Once the new workflow provider has been configured the new workflow provider may begin receiving new work items. At such a point the automated workflow manager may stop sending new work items to the current workflow and may begin directing new work items to the new workflow.

The automated workflow manager may issue a stop command to the existing workflow provider to place the workflow in a state for transferring the workflow. In the example the current workflow may have some expenses that are out for approval by certain managers but where the approval has not been received from the manager. The approvals may be for example an email message that the manager may approve or disapprove and return to the workflow.

In such a situation the approvals that are out for approval may not be in a state for transfer. After receiving a command to stop processing the current workflow may wait for any items out for approval to be returned and may further process the returns to a point where the work items may be transferrable. Meanwhile the second workflow provider may begin processing new work items. In the example the approval process may allow the approval managers several days to approve or disapprove certain expenses. Some expenses may be automatically approved when the expenses are below a certain dollar amount while other expenses over a certain dollar amount may only be approved or disapproved after the approving manager takes affirmative action to approve or deny. In such cases the expenses may be in process for an extended period of time.

If the workflow was moved while an expense was in the approval cycle an approval manager may receive one set of expenses from the first workflow and then another request to approve or deny the same expenses from the second workflow. Such a situation may be confusing to the manager who may approve the first set of expenses and deny the second. In order to avoid the confusion the items in the approval process may be permitted to continue the workflow until the work items are in a state for transfer.

Once the in process work items have been processed to a state where transfer may be performed a second part of the workflow state may be transferred to the new workflow provider. The second part may include items that were in process when the initial transfer may have been performed.

In the example the expense report workflows from each provider may have different steps and may provide different features. In such an embodiment the executable code performed by the two workflow providers may be different and the workflow state may be the only information transferred between the workflow providers.

In some embodiments some executable code may be transferred between the workflow providers. In such embodiments a script or customized workflow component may be transferred between workflow providers when a workflow may be moved. For example two different workflow providers may have generic expense report processing workflows. When establishing and configuring the workflow a business may include a script or other executable that customizes a portion of the workflow to the specific business process. When that workflow may be moved to another workflow provider the customized executable may also be transferred to the new workflow provider.

In many embodiments the workflow providers may include audit logs and may have various authorization procedures for transferring workflows. Many workflows may be sensitive business processes on which a business may rely for the operation of the business and where stopping a business workflow may have serious financial consequences to the business. In such embodiments an automated workflow manager may have authorization credentials that may be used to authenticate requests to change the workflows including starting stopping and reconfiguring the workflow. The authorization credentials may be used to establish relationships with new workflow providers and to authorized moving workflows between providers.

The workflow providers may maintain and provide audit logs that record changes to the workflows. When a workflow provider may receive authorization to stop operation for example the audit log may record the authorization. For business sensitive workflows such an audit log may be used in the event of a lawsuit to verify that there was proper authorization to halt the business sensitive workflow for example.

The device is illustrated as having an automated workflow manager. The device is illustrated having hardware components and software components . The device as illustrated represents a conventional computing device although other embodiments may have different configurations architectures or components.

The device may be a server computer desktop computer or comparable device. In some embodiments the device may be a laptop computer netbook computer tablet or slate computer wireless handset cellular telephone or any other type of computing device.

The hardware components may include a processor random access memory and nonvolatile storage . The hardware components may also include a user interface and network interface . The processor may be made up of several processors or processor cores in some embodiments. The random access memory may be memory that may be readily accessible to and addressable by the processor . The nonvolatile storage may be storage that persists after the device is shut down. The nonvolatile storage may be any type of storage device including hard disk solid state memory devices magnetic tape optical storage or other type of storage. The nonvolatile storage may be read only or read write capable.

The user interface may be any type of hardware capable of displaying output and receiving input from a user. In many cases the output display may be a graphical display monitor although output devices may include lights and other visual output audio output kinetic actuator output as well as other output devices. Conventional input devices may include keyboards and pointing devices such as a mouse stylus trackball or other pointing device. Other input devices may include various sensors including biometric input devices audio and video input devices and other sensors.

The network interface may be any type of connection to another computer. In many embodiments the network interface may be a wired Ethernet connection. Other embodiments may include wired or wireless connections over various communication protocols.

The software components may include an operating system on which various applications and services may operate. An operating system may provide an abstraction layer between executing routines and the hardware platform and may include various routines and functions that communicate directly with various hardware components.

A workflow manager may be an application executing within the operating system . The workflow manager may coordinate the transfer of workflows from one workflow provider to another as well as perform other management tasks. In some embodiments the workflow manager may have a user interface through which an administrator may configure an existing workflow observe performance statistics of a workflow and perform other management tasks.

In some embodiments the workflow manager may perform workflow transfers based on a human authorization. In such embodiments an administrator may manually cause a workflow to be transferred and the administrator may perform some of the tasks related to transferring the workflow including establishing an account or authorization with a new workflow provider.

In many embodiments the workflow manager may be capable of automatically determining when to change workflow providers and to automatically cause a workflow to be transferred.

The workflow manager may have a set of policies which may be used to determine when to change workflow providers. The policies may define conditions for when to evaluate different workflow providers and for when to move a workflow from one workflow provider to another.

The workflow manager may be capable of evaluating different workflow providers. For example the workflow manager may be capable of contacting one two or many different workflow providers to request various criteria that may be used to determine whether or not a workflow may be moved and to which workflow provider the move may occur. For example the workflow manager may be capable of requesting cost performance or other information from two or more workflow providers and comparing that information with a current workflow provider. Based on the criteria defined in the policies the workflow manager may select a new workflow provider and cause a workflow to be moved to the new provider.

In some cases the device may include a converter that may convert the state from one workflow to a state compatible with a new provider. The converter may use a schema to define how the conversion may take place. The schema may include schemas for both the current and new workflows and may determine a mapping between the two schemas. In some embodiments only one schema may be provided and the converter may perform a conversion. Some converters may not use a schema to perform a conversion.

The workflow manager may have a set of credentials that may be used to authenticate against different workflow providers. The credentials may be used when performing changes to the workflows including authorizing workflows to start stop and be transferred.

In many embodiments accounts may be set up with different workflow providers. An administrator may establish an account which may include authentication credentials method of payment and other information. After setting up the account with various workflow providers the workflow manager may evaluate whether or not to move a workflow to one of the workflow providers and may cause the workflow to be moved with or without human intervention.

In some cases the workflow manager may evaluate different workflow providers and identify a potential provider that may have additional features operate at a lower cost offer better performance or otherwise meet the criteria in the policies for transferring the workflow. After the potential workflow provider may be identified an administrator may establish an account with the new workflow provider receive credentials for operating with the new workflow provider and the workflow manager may transfer the workflow.

The workflow providers and may be accessible over a network . In many cases the network may be the Internet and the network may include various local area networks wide area networks or other types of networks.

The workflow provider may have a hardware platform on which a workflow engine may execute a first workflow . The hardware platform may be a single hardware platform such as a server computer. In some embodiments the hardware platform may be a cloud computing hardware platform virtual machine or other type of computing platform.

The workflow engine may execute the workflow using any type of workflow definition. In some embodiments the workflow may be defined using various languages specific to workflows. In other embodiments the workflow may be defined using custom designed computer code that may execute a workflow. Such embodiments may or may not have a separate workflow engine .

The workflow engine may include an authentication system which may authenticate an administrator or a workflow manager when receiving various commands that may change the operation of the workflow . In many embodiments the workflow may be a business sensitive operation that may result in substantial financial loss if the workflow were halted or changed. In some embodiments the authentication system may be used to verify the identity of an agent who may make changes to the workflow.

In many embodiments the workflow provider may include a converter and schema . The converter and schema may be used to translate incoming or outgoing workflow states into or out of formats that may be compatible with the workflow engine .

Similar to workflow provider workflow provider may have a hardware platform a workflow engine that may execute a workflow an authentication system and a converter that may consume a schema .

Other embodiments may use different sequencing additional or fewer steps and different nomenclature or terminology to accomplish similar functions. In some embodiments various operations or set of operations may be performed in parallel with other operations either in a synchronous or asynchronous manner. The steps selected here were chosen to illustrate some principles of operations in a simplified form.

Embodiment illustrates a simplified method for moving a workflow from one provider to another. The workflow may be moved in a single step by receiving the workflow state from the first provider and transferring the workflow state to the second provider. Once the second provider receives the workflow state the second provider may begin executing the workflow.

In block a workflow manager may establish a workflow which may be executed by the first workflow provider in block . In some cases the process of establishing configuring testing and launching a workflow may be a long process.

The normal operation of the workflow may be illustrated in block . A workflow manager or other entity may transmit work items in block which may be received by the first provider in block . The work items may be processed in block and results may be returned in block which may be received by the workflow manager or other entity in block . In some embodiments a work item may be transmitted to the workflow and processed. In other embodiments a work item may be created by the workflow based on some condition or event.

In block the workflow manager may determine that the workflow may be moved to another workflow provider. In some embodiments the workflow manager may determine such a condition exists automatically while in other embodiments a human administrator may determine the condition. In some embodiments the workflow manager may determine that the condition exists but no action may be taken until a human administrator approves the change.

In block the workflow manager may send a request to the first workflow provider for the workflow state. The request may be received in block by the first workflow provider . The workflow may be paused in block and the workflow state may be stored in block . The workflow state may be transmitted in block and received by the workflow manager in block .

The existing workflow may be paused or stopped in block . In some embodiments in process work items may be executed until a stopping point may be reached. In other embodiments the workflow may be capable of transferring the workflow state at any time.

The first workflow provider may create an audit trail in block . The audit trail of block may include information relating to the request to change the workflow operation. In the case of embodiment the change may be to stop the workflow. The audit trail of block may be used to reconstruct the authorization and sequence of commands that may have led to the workflow being shut down.

Once the workflow state is received in block by the workflow manager the workflow manager may establish a workflow in block with a second workflow provider which may prepare the workflow in block . After the workflow is prepared the workflow manager may transmit the workflow state in block which the second provider may receive in block and begin executing the workflow in block . Because the second workflow provider uses the existing workflow state to begin executing the workflow the workflow may resume operations from where the first workflow provider left off.

Embodiment illustrates a method whereby the workflow state may be transmitted to the workflow manager and then to the second workflow provider. In some embodiments the workflow manager may instruct the first workflow provider to transmit the workflow state directly to the second workflow provider without passing the workflow state through the workflow manager .

Other embodiments may use different sequencing additional or fewer steps and different nomenclature or terminology to accomplish similar functions. In some embodiments various operations or set of operations may be performed in parallel with other operations either in a synchronous or asynchronous manner. The steps selected here were chosen to illustrate some principles of operations in a simplified form.

Embodiment illustrates a more complex method for moving a workflow between providers than embodiment . Embodiment includes some steps that may be used prior to a workflow transfer to evaluate workflow providers and also illustrates a two stage transfer where some in process work items may be processed to a transferrable state.

In block the workflow manager may establish a workflow with the first workflow provider which may execute the workflow in block .

At some point after the workflow has begun execution the workflow manager may request operational information in block from both the first workflow provider and second workflow provider . The first workflow provider may receive the request in block and return operational information in block . Similarly the second workflow provider may receive the request in block and return operational information in block . The operational information may be received by the workflow manager in block .

The operational information may include information that may be used to determine whether or not to change workflow providers. In various embodiments the operational information may be cost performance metrics such as throughput or response time feature set or other information.

The operational information may be analyzed in block and a determination may be made in block to change workflow providers. Once the determination is made in block a workflow may be established in block between the workflow manager and the second workflow provider which may prepare the new workflow in block .

In block the workflow manager may begin transmitting new work items to the second workflow provider which may receive the new work items in block and begin processing the work items in block .

By begin transmitting new work items in block two workflows may be operating in parallel. In some embodiments a first set of state information may be requested from the first workflow provider and transmitted to the second workflow provider to configure the second workflow. The first set of state information may include state parameters used by the second workflow provider to configure the second workflow. A second set of state information may be transmitted later that may include the state associated with in process work items.

In block the workflow manager may issue a stop command to the first workflow provider which may be received in block . The first workflow provider may generate an audit entry in block that may log the stop command and the authorization used for the command.

In block the first workflow provider may process in process work items to a transferrable state. In some embodiments work items may be in a state that may not be transferrable such as a transaction that may not be completed. Once the transactions are completed or when the work items are in a transferrable state the workflow state may be stored in block and may be transmitted in block .

The workflow state may be received in block by the workflow manager and may be transmitted to the second workflow provider in block . The second workflow provider may receive the workflow state in block and may perform a translation or conversion in block to match the local schema. The second workflow provider may continue executing the workflow with the new state in block .

The foregoing description of the subject matter has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the subject matter to the precise form disclosed and other modifications and variations may be possible in light of the above teachings. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention in various embodiments and various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the appended claims be construed to include other alternative embodiments except insofar as limited by the prior art.

