---

title: Method and system for the prediction of cardiac arrhythmias, myocardial ischemia, and other diseased condition of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic neural discharges
abstract: Methods and systems are provided for determining an increased likelihood of the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia, myocardial ischemia, congestive heart failure and other diseased conditions of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic neural discharges in a patient. The methods and systems comprise monitoring the sympathetic neural discharges of a patient from the stellate ganglia, the thoracic ganglia, or both, and detecting increases in the sympathetic neural discharges. The methods and systems may further comprise delivering therapy to the patient in response to a detected increase in the sympathetic neural discharge, such as delivering one or more pharmacological agents; stimulating myocardial hyperinnervation in the sinus node and right ventricle of the heart of the patient; and applying cardiac pacing, cardioversion or defibrillation shocks. Pharmacologic agents which may be used in connection with the delivery of include those which are known to exert anti-arrhythmic effect and anti-convulsant agents, such as phenytoin, carbamazepine, valproate, and phenobarbitone. Other pharmacologic agents may be used to treat impending myocardial ischemia and other diseased conditions of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic neural discharges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744571&OS=08744571&RS=08744571
owner: Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
number: 08744571
owner_city: Los Angeles
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100406
---
This is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 205 923 filed Aug. 16 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 725 178 which is a continuation in part application of application Ser. No. 11 069 753 filed Feb. 28 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 266 410 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 10 882 645 filed Jun. 30 2004 now abandoned all of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This invention was made in part with government support under Grant R01 HL66389 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights to this invention.

The invention generally relates to a methods and systems for the prediction of cardiac arrhythmias of the type that can result in sudden cardiac death.

Sudden cardiac death SCD is a major public health problem that accounts for more than half of all cardiovascular deaths. SCD takes the lives of approximately 450 000 people in the United States each year more than lung cancer breast cancer stroke and AIDS combined. Most cases of SCD are due to ventricular arrhythmias and there is often an element of underlying ischemic heart disease. Ventricular tachycardia VT and ventricular fibrillation VF are different types of ventricular arrhythmias. VT is an abnormally fast ventricular heart rhythm which is by itself typically not fatal. VF is a chaotic ventricular heart rhythm which produces little or no net blood flow from the heart such that there is little or not net blood flow to the brain and other organs. VF if not terminated results in death. Patient groups most at risk of ventricular arrhythmias leading to SCD include those with an acute or chronic myocardial infarction. Accordingly deaths from SCDs may be lowered by preventing the specific heart rhythm disturbances ventricular arrhythmias associated with it.

Different treatment options exist for SCD. The most common treatment includes implantable cardiac defibrillators ICD and drug therapy. ICDs have been available in the United States since the mid 1980s and have a well documented success rate in decreasing the rate of death of patients at high risk for SCD. A major trial conducted by the U.S. National Institutes of Health the Anti arrhythmics Versus Implantable Defibrillator or AVID trial compared therapy with the best available anti arrhythmic drugs with ICD therapy for patients with spontaneous ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. The overall death rate in the ICD patient group was found to be 39 lower than the death rate of patients treated with anti arrhythmic drugs after only 18 months mean follow up.

An ICD has two basic components the ICD generator and the lead system for pacing and shock delivery to which it is connected. An ICD generator contains sensing circuits memory storage capacitors voltage enhancers a telemetry module and a control microprocessor. Advances in miniaturization and complexity in all of these components have permitted a tremendous reduction in size of the generator itself despite increased functionality such as added programming options anti tachycardia pacing single and dual chamber rate responsive pacing for bradycardia biphasic defibrillation waveforms enhanced arrhythmia detection features and innovations in lead systems.

Current ICD technology however provides for the detection and recognition of an arrhythmia based on the sensed heart rate once it has already started. This leaves very little time to protect the individual from death resulting from SCD. Although there have been several attempts at developing new technology for predicting the onset of a cardiac arrhythmia many of these methods and systems appear to rely primarily on events occurring within the heart such as sensed heart rate and electrocardiography ECG . For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 308 094 discloses a method and device for predicting cardiac arrhythmias by gathering and processing electrocardiographic data such as intervals between heart beats RR series or other heart signals to predict the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia. U.S. Pat. No. 6 516 219 discloses a method and apparatus for forecasting arrhythmia based on real time intact intracardiac electrograms.

Methods and systems are provided for determining an increased likelihood of the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia myocardial ischemia and or other diseased condition of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic nerve discharges in a patient. The methods and systems disclosed herein generally comprise monitoring the sympathetic neural discharges of a patient from the stellate ganglia the thoracic ganglia and or any other sympathetic nerve identified as having an influence over the heart rate of a patient. Other sympathetic nerves suitable for use in connection with the prediction of cardiac arrhythmias may be generally determined by obtaining simultaneous recordings of neural discharges and heart rate in a test subject and determining whether there exists a correlation between an observed increase in the amplitude and or frequency of the neural discharges and an increase in heart rate.

Elevated stellate ganglia nerve activity SGNA has been demonstrated to precede the onset of cardiac arrhythmias of the type leading to SCD and additionally myocardial ischemia. Myocardial ischemia may or may not cause chest pain angina . When myocardial ischemia does not cause chest pain it is known as silent ischemia. It has been shown that stellate ganglion stimulation can cause ischemia as shown by the ST segment elevation in . The ST elevation suggest that significant myocardial ischemia probably due to the combined effects of alpha receptor induced coronary constriction and beta receptor increase in oxygen consumption. The ability to continuously monitor SGNA will provide a method to predict the onset of silent ischemia.

In one embodiment the sympathetic neural discharges may be monitored by a sensor or electrode that is implanted in the stellate ganglia to measure the stellate ganglia nerve activity SGNA of the patient from the left stellate ganglion LSG the right stellate ganglion RSG or both. For example the electrode may directly sense electrical activity of the stellate ganglia and transmit this data to a processor. The processor may then analyze the data acquired from the electrode and upon the determination that the SGNA has increased beyond a defined normal value produce an output signal indicating the likely onset of an arrhythmia myocardial ischemia and or other diseased condition of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic nerve discharges.

In another embodiment an increase in the sympathetic neural discharge in the patient may be determined by comparing the parameters for the sensed and normal sympathetic neural discharges in the patient. In yet another embodiment an increase in the sympathetic neural discharge may be determined by detecting increases in the amplitude and frequency of the sensed sympathetic neural discharge beyond defined normal values such as the sensed electrical activity of the stellate ganglia and or the thoracic ganglia. In yet another embodiment the sensed electrical activity of the left stellate ganglion may be monitored for epileptiform like discharges.

The defined normal value represents a value above or beyond which is indicative of an impending arrhythmic ischemic or other diseased condition of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic nerve discharges and may be determined with reference to the normal baseline sympathetic neural discharge. For example a two fold or greater increase in the amplitude of the sensed sympathetic neural discharge from the normal baseline amplitude of sympathetic neural discharge may be used as a suitable defined normal value. A second defined normal value reflecting the frequency of the sympathetic neural discharge above or beyond which is indicative of an impeding arrhythmic condition of the heart may similarly be provided. The defined normal values may be preset or user defined programmable values.

An output signal may be generated in response to a determined increase in the sympathetic neural discharge. In one embodiment the output signal may be an audible sound a radio transmitted or radiofrequency signal an electrical signal or any other type of signal that would alert the patient or physician to the possibility of an impending arrhythmia. In another embodiment the output signal may be an analog or digital command signal directing the delivery of therapy to the patient.

Suitable therapy for use in connection with the methods and systems are known in the art and may include any one or a combination of the following delivering one or more pharmacological agents stimulating myocardial hyperinnervation in the sinus node and right ventricle of the heart of the patient and applying cardiac pacing cardioversion or defibrillation shocks to name a few.

Any one or more pharmacologic agent s may be used in connection with the delivery of therapy. Such pharmacologic agents may include those which are effective in treating cardiac arrhythmias myocardial ischemia congestive heart failure and any other diseased condition of the heart that is associated with elevated sympathetic neural discharges. Pharmacologic agents which may be used in connection with the delivery of anti arrhythmic therapy may include but are not limited to those which are known to exert anti arrhythmic effect such as sodium channel blockers blockers potassium channel blockers such as amiodarone and solatol and calcium channel blockers such as verapamil and diltiazem. Pharmacologic agents suitable for the treatment of myocardial ischemia may include but are not limited to statins angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors aspirin beta blockers calcium channel blockers and nitrates. Other suitable pharmacologic agents may include anti convulsant agents including but not limited to phenytoin carbamazepine valproate and phenobarbitone to name a few which are believed to have anti arrhythmic effect.

The methods and systems described herein may be incorporated into any number of implantable medical devices including but not limited to implantable cardiac rhythm management systems such as pacemakers cardioverters defibrillators and the like. The present methods and systems may also be incorporated in external unimplanted devices of the same sort as well as in external monitors programmers and recorders.

The above and other objects features and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the following description of the preferred embodiments.

Methods and systems are disclosed for determining an increased likelihood of the occurrence of a cardiac arrhythmia myocardial ischemia congestive heart failure and any other diseased condition of the heart in a patient that is associated with elevated sympathetic neural discharges. The methods and systems disclosed herein comprise monitoring the sympathetic neural discharges of a patient determining an increase in the sympathetic neural discharges in the patient beyond defined normal values and producing an output signal upon a determined increase in the sympathetic neural discharges in the patient. In one embodiment the output signal may be an audible sound a radio transmitted or radiofrequency signal an electrical signal or any other type of signal that would alert the patient or physician to the possibility of an impending arrhythmia or other diseased conditions of the heart. In another embodiment the output signal may be a command signal directing the delivery of suitable therapy.

The sympathetic neural discharges of a patient may be monitored by a sensor or electrode that is implanted in the stellate ganglia the thoracic ganglia and or any other sympathetic nerve for which the rate of neural discharge influences the heart rate in a patient. The sensor or electrode may directly sense electrical activity of the stellate ganglia the thoracic ganglia or other suitable sympathetic nerve of the patient and transmit this data to a processor for immediate processing or to a memory for storage.

In a preferred embodiment sympathetic nerve recordings are obtained from the stellate ganglia the thoracic ganglia or both. In yet another preferred embodiment the left stellate ganglia are monitored for epileptiform like discharges by which are meant high amplitude spikes such as those represented in . It has surprisingly been discovered that such epileptiform like discharges precede the onset of cardiac arrhythmias including ventricular fibrillation and may thus be used as a highly sensitive and specific marker for ventricular arrhythmias and sudden death syndrome.

Increased neural discharges from the stellate ganglia have been observed to precede the onset of cardiac arrhythmias. Consistent with this observation partial or complete ablation of the LSG together with the thoracic ganglia T2 to T4 was demonstrated to be effective in reducing the incidence of SCD in patients after a first myocardial infarction. Schwartz P J et al. Left cardiac sympathetic denervation in the management of high risk patients affected by the long QT syndrome. 2004 109 1926 1833. These findings suggest that the LSG and the thoracic ganglia are important for ventricular arrhythmogenesis and SCD among high risk patients.

Indeed it has previously been found that stimulation of the LSG has been found to result in a significant increase in incidence of ventricular arrhythmias and SCD in canine subjects. In contrast stimulation of the RSG has been shown to be anti arrhythmic. A method for inducing ventricular arrhythmias in an animal model is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 351 668 which is incorporated herein in its entirety. Such an animal model is useful in collecting data pertinent to predictors of heart arrhythmias and for testing techniques intended to predict the onset of heart arrhythmias the disclosures for which are provided in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 353 757 and 6 398 800 which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

Previous studies have demonstrated heterogeneous sympathetic hyperinnervation in the left ventricle in canine models for sudden cardiac death. Cao J M Chen L S KenKnight B H et al. Nerve sprouting and sudden cardiac death. Circ. Res. 2000 86 816 21. The electrical heterogeneity does not have significant clinical consequences in normal hearts. However when the ion channels in the heart are altered by either genetic mutations or electrical remodeling after a myocardial infarction and atrioventricular block this heterogeneity may be amplified and cause arrhythmia. Accordingly different sympathetic nerves may exert very different effects on the heart rate.

For example increased neural discharges from the LSG exert a pro arrhythmic effect whereas increased neural discharges from the RSG are believed to be anti arrhythmic. It has been demonstrated that electrical stimulation of the left stellate ganglia in canine subjects induce high magnitude cardiac nerve sprouting and increased ventricular sympathetic nerve density. If the canine subjects also have complete atrioventricular block and myocardial infarction sub threshold electrical stimulation of left stellate ganglia resulted in a high yield canine model of sudden cardiac death. In contrast sub threshold electrical stimulation of the right stellate ganglia may induce nerve sprouting from the right stellate ganglia and thereby reduce the risk of SCD in canine subjects with augmented nerve sprouting myocardial infarction and complete atrioventricular block.

Sub threshold electrical stimulation to the left stellate ganglia was administered in six 6 normal canine subjects and six 6 canine subjects with myocardial infarction and complete atrioventricular block. The threshold current is the minimum amount of current needed to induce increases in blood pressure and heart rate. All twelve 12 canine subjects were monitored with either an ICD or with a DSI transmitter implanted in a sub muscular chest pocket for continuous recording with a sampling rate of 1 000 per second. The hearts were harvested a month later. All hearts showed significant hypertrophy nerve sprouting and sympathetic hyperinnervation. The canine subjects with myocardial infarction and complete atrioventricular block demonstrated frequent ventricular tachycardia and a high incidence of sudden cardiac death. These results show that sub threshold electrical stimulation to the LSG induces cardiac nerve sprouting and sympathetic hyperinnervation and facilitates the development of a high yield canine model of ventricular arrhythmia and sudden cardiac death.

Stellate ganglion nerve activity SGNA from dogs with myocardial infarction complete atrioventricular block and nerve growth factor infusion to the left stellate ganglion sudden death model was successfully recorded. Surprisingly high amplitude epileptiform like spikes in the SGNA recordings were observed in all dogs. shows a typical example of the type of high amplitude spikes newly observed. Further investigation revealed that these epileptiform like spikes precede the onset of ventricular tachycardia VT . Repeated measurements revealed that the frequency of these spikes is about 6.6 0.77 HZ and their amplitude is about 0.91 0.16 mV.

Further investigation revealed that these epileptiform like discharges induced premature ventricular contraction PVC as shown in and that they are able to induce morphology changes of QRST as shown in . demonstrates that these epileptiform like spikes precede the onset of ventricular tachycardia VT or premature ventricular contractions PVCs . These unusual spikes induced nonsustained polymorphic ventricular tachycardia fast accelerated idioventricular rhythm premature ventricular contractions and nonsustained ventricular tachycardia.

These novel spikes are similar to the epileptiform discharges seen on electroencephalogram recordings in patients with seizure disorders. While epileptiform like discharges are well known and characterized in the field of electro encephalography for the measurement of CNS activity they have never heretofore been observed in electrocardiography. Significantly while these high frequency spikes were seen in all dogs in the sudden death model group they were rarely seen in any of the normal control dogs. These results show that abnormal SGNA is present in the stellate ganglion and that there is a causal relationship between abnormal SGNA and ventricular arrhythmias.

The SGNA recorded in the sudden death model was further analyzed. Of the dogs monitored almost half died suddenly during follow up. All dogs had phase 1 ventricular tachycardia VT that occurred immediately post infarct period and phase 2 ventricular tachycardia VT that occurred 10 days after myocardial infarction . Data Sciences International DSI monitoring showed that there were 1.4 1.1 phase 2 ventricular tachycardia episodes day. Randomly selected phase 2 ventricular tachycardia episodes N 205 from 4 dogs were analyzed. The results showed that 177 of 205 ventricular tachycardia episodes 86.3 were preceded by elevated SGNA. The elevated SGNA was either high frequency activation or in the form of epileptiform like discharges demonstrating that the measurement of electrical activity can be used to predict the onset of arrhythmias.

In one embodiment the sensor or electrode may be a nanoelectrode array. As shown in the nanoelectrode array comprising a plurality of nanoelectrodes . The signals from the sympathetic neural discharges are received by each of the nanoelectrodes combined before digitization and transmitted by a single electrical wire . In a preferred embodiment each individual nanoelectrode has a sharp tip of approximately 10 to 50 nm in diameter and is configured to penetrate the epineurium or the connective tissue sheath that surrounds the sympathetic nerve bundle without damaging the nerves and surrounding blood vessels. Akingba A G Wang D Chen P S Neves H Montemagno C Application of nanoelectrodes in recording biopotentials. Nanotechnology 2003 2003 2 870 874

Data acquired from the sensor or electrode may be filtered to produce optimal signal to noise ratio. The amplitude of a signal from a sympathetic nerve is typically 35 to 35 V and the electrode noise is on average 10 V for an ideal electrode resistance between 100 k and 10 M at 37 C. for a bandwidth of 1 kHz. Much of the noise during in vivo recording results from the interfacial effects between the neuron epineurium electrolyte and the electrode which is dominated by the charge transfer resistance and the coupling resistance. Cross talk from parasitic capacitances may also result in the generation of unwanted signals when using conventional electrodes to record sympathetic neural discharges.

Wide band pass filter 1 to 3000 Hz allows recording of sympathetic neural discharges but also allows for a significant amount of noise generated by cardiac and respiratory related movement artifacts. A greater high pass filter setting 30 to 100 Hz removes some of the noise and achieves a more stable baseline of the recorded sympathetic neural discharge signals.

The data acquired from the sensor or nanoelectrode may be continuously monitored to detect increases in the sympathetic neural discharges. In one embodiment an increase in the sympathetic neural discharges in the patient may be determined by detecting an increase in the amplitude and frequency of the sensed sympathetic neural discharges beyond defined normal values. In another embodiment an increase in the sympathetic neural discharges in the patient may be determined by comparing the parameters for the sensed sympathetic neural discharges in the patient with the parameters defined for normal sympathetic neural discharges. In yet another preferred embodiment the electrical activity of the left stellate ganglion is monitored for epileptiform like discharges. Due to the surprising discovery that these epileptiform like discharges which include the high amplitude spikes represented in it is now possible to build a device that can record and diagnose these discharges. Such a device for example an ICD will be designed to include the function of the epileptiform like discharge detection as part of its operation. In one embodiment the device will have an extra connecting port to an electrode wire that records nerve activity from the left stellate ganglion. In this manner the device will diagnose and quantitate the frequency and magnitude of the epileptiform like discharges.

In an alternative embodiment a wire electrode may be used to obtain SGNA recordings. SGNA recordings have been successfully obtained from the LSG RSG and vagal nerves implanting the stainless steel wires connected to the transmitter directly under the fascia of the stellate ganglia. A high degree of concordance between SGNA signals registered by the nanoelectrode array and by the stainless steel wires has been demonstrated. depicts the correlation between SGNA recorded by nanoelectrode and the wire electrode from the LSG of a canine subject. An example of the actual left SGNA recordings from the nanoelectrode and the wire electrode is shown at the bottom of the bar graph. demonstrates that SGNA may be adequately recorded using either the nanoelectrode array or the stainless steel wire electrode.

The defined normal value represents a value above and beyond which is indicative of an impending arrhythmic condition of the heart and may be determined with reference to the normal baseline sympathetic neural discharge. For example a two fold or greater increase in the amplitude of the sensed sympathetic neural discharge from the normal baseline amplitude of sympathetic neural discharge may be used as a suitable defined normal value. A second defined normal value with respect to the frequency of the sympathetic neural discharge may be similarly provided. The defined normal values may be a preset or user defined programmable value.

Once an increase in the sympathetic neural discharges such as epileptiform like high amplitude spikes has been detected an output signal may be generated. In one embodiment the output signal may be an audible sound a radio transmitted or radio frequency signal an electrical signal or any other type of signal that would alert the patient or physician to the possibility of an impending arrhythmia or other diseased condition of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic neural discharge. Upon the generation of the output signal the patient or physician may then take precautionary or therapeutic measures to avoid or reduce the likelihood of an impending cardiac arrhythmia or other diseased condition of the heart. Alternatively the device may transmit the detection of the epileptiform like discharges from the left stellate ganglion via telephone or the internet to the physician s office. The physician can then adjust the drug dosage according to the information transmitted by the device and thus prevent ischemia or sudden death.

In another embodiment the output signal may be a command signal directing the delivery of suitable therapy. Suitable therapy for use in connection with the methods and systems are known in the art and may include any one or a combination of the following delivering one or more pharmacological agents stimulating myocardial hyperinnervation in the sinus node and right ventricle of the heart of the patient and cardiac pacing cardioversion or defibrillation shocks. A suitable drug delivery system for an implantable cardiac device is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 361 522 which is incorporated herein in its entirety. Thus the device can be used to trigger an implantable drug delivery device which automatically delivers anti arrhythmic medications according to the frequency and magnitude of the epileptiform like discharges. In another preferred embodiment the device is used to trigger the delivery of stimulation signals to the right stellate ganglion in order to suppress the epileptiform discharge as the right stellate ganglion is believed to exert an anti arrhythmic effect.

Pharmacologic agents may include those which are known to exert an anti arrhythmic effect such as sodium channel blockers blockers potassium channel blockers such as amiodarone and solatol and calcium channel blockers such as verapamil and diltiazem.

Other suitable anti arrhythmic pharmacologic agents include anti convulsant agents such as phenytoin carbamazepine valproate and phenobarbitone. The LSG is capable of high frequency neuronal discharges and these discharges directly increase heart rate. Anti convulsants work by selectively suppressing high frequency neuronal discharges in the central and peripheral nervous system. Anti convulsants are also known to suppress cardiac sympathetic nerve discharges. Because of the importance of the autonomic nervous system in arrhythmogenesis drugs that prevent the release of adrenergic neurotransmitters may thereby decrease the sympathetic outflow are useful for controlling cardiac arrhythmia.

It has been shown for example that phenytoin can also be used to suppress cardiac arrhythmia induced by digitalis toxicity. The action of phenytoin is related to use and frequency dependent selective suppression of high frequency neuronal activity. The molecular mechanism for this is a voltage dependent blockade of membrane sodium channels responsible for the action potential. Through this action phenytoin obstructs the positive feedback that underlies the development of maximal seizure activity.

Anti convulsants may block the sympathetic nerve discharges through two actions. One is frequency dependent block of sodium currents and the second is a block of calcium currents. A combined channel blockade may account for the effects of anticonvulsant drugs. In addition to epilepsy anti convulsants such as phenytoin and carbamazepine are also useful in treating neuropathic pain which is characterized by abnormal spontaneous and increased evoked activity from damaged areas of the peripheral nervous system.

Other suitable pharmacologic agents may also be used for the treatment of myocardial ischemia and may include but are not limited to statins angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors aspirin beta blockers calcium channel blockers and nitrates. Any other suitable pharmacologic agent that is known to treat a diseased condition of the heart associated with elevated sympathetic neural discharges may be used in combination with any other pharmacologic agent and or therapy.

Anti arrhythmic therapy may also be administered by stimulating myocardial hyperinnervation in the sinus node and right ventricle of the heart of the patient by applying electrical stimulation to the RSG of the patient or by applying Nerve Growth Factor or other neurotropic substances to the RSG as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 487 450 which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The methods disclosed herein may be carried out by a programmable implantable or external device including but not limited to implantable cardiac rhythm management systems such as pacemakers cardioverters ICDs and the like. In one embodiment the system may comprise a microprocessor memory bi directional data bus a sympathetic nerve activity SNA sensing unit an output unit and a telemetry interface.

The microprocessor may communicate with the memory through the data bus and execute the program stored in the memory. The microprocessor may include a comparator such as a summing amplifier operation amplifier or other methods of comparing the levels of analog voltage signals. Furthermore if the sensors or the electrodes produce digital values reflecting the sympathetic neural discharges then numerous methods known to one of skill in the art may be utilized to digitally compare the respective sympathetic neural discharges.

The memory may comprise any suitable combination of read only memory ROM containing the device operating software random access memory RAM for data storage and on board or off board cache memory associated with the microprocessor. The data bus permits communication between the microprocessor memory SNA sensing unit output unit and the telemetry interface. The telemetry interface may be used for downloading stored data to an external programmer and for receiving telemetry from the programmer to modify programmable parameters and or change the device operating software.

The SNA sensing unit may comprise one or more electrodes or sensors coupled to sympathetic nerves of the patient such as the LSG and interface circuits that receive and process the sensed signals from the electrodes. Accordingly the SNA sensing unit may receive electrical signals from the sympathetic nerves of the patient filter those signals and convert them into digital data or otherwise make the data available to the microprocessor.

Accordingly in one embodiment the microprocessor may instruct the SNA sensing unit to collect data from the sympathetic nerve which is then transmitted over bus to the microprocessor for immediate processing or to the memory for storage and subsequent processing as appropriate. The microprocessor may then execute the programming resident in memory to identify increases in the sympathetic neural discharges of the patient and command the output unit to produce an output signal in response thereto.

The methods and systems illustrated with reference to the drawings and described herein are merely illustrative of the principles of the invention which may be implemented in alternative embodiments to achieve other ends than those specifically described herein. Accordingly the following examples are set forth for the purpose of illustration only and are not construed as limitations on the method disclosed herein.

A standard wire electrode and a nanoelectrode array was implanted on the renal sympathetic nerve of a New Zealand white rabbit. Simultaneous recordings of the ECG and renal sympathetic neural discharges were obtained. The renal sympathetic neural discharges was recorded with both a standard wire electrode and a nanoelectrode array and amplifier. The signals were digitized with a band pass filter of 30 to 500 Hz and a digitization rate of 1 K sec.

The relationship between the SGNA of the LSG and the heart rate was investigated in a normal canine subject. A normal canine subject was anesthetized with isofluorane and the chest was opened at the third intercostal space. The LSG was identified and a nanoelectrode was implanted under the fibrous capsule. The fibrous capsule was then closed with a 4 0 silk suture and additional sutures were placed on the wire to secure the nanoelectrodes. The nanoelectrodes were then connected to a DSI transmitter DSI TL 10M3 D70 EEE Data Sciences International with a low pass filter of 250 Hz and a digitization rate of 1 K sec. An additional bipolar channel of the DSI transmitter was used for ECG recordings between the right and left chest. All recordings shared a common ground.

Stellate ganglion nerve activity SGNA of six 6 purpose bred class A adult mongrel dogs 18 25 kg was monitored used to study the relationship between SGNA and heart rate and blood pressure the circadian variations of SGNA and the effects of electrical stimulation of the stellate ganglia.

Sterile surgery was performed under general anesthesia. A DSI transmitter was used to record a total of 3 channels of electrograms. The sampling rate was 1 000 s and each of the biopontential channels had a bandwidth of 1 100 Hz and shared the same ground wires implanted in the subcutaneous pocket near the transmitter.

The DSI transmitter model D70 EEE was used for five of the canine subjects to record one channel of SGNA from the LSG one channel of SGNA from the RSG and one channel of ECG. The recording electrodes were implanted under the fascia of the stellate ganglia and connected to a subcutaneous DSI transmitter to obtain continuous SGNA recordings. One pair of widely spaced bipolar wires was implanted to the subcutaneous tissues to record electrocardiogram. In one of the canine subjects a nanoelectrode array was implanted under the fascia of the LSG for SGNA recordings and the nanoelectrode array was soldered to the stainless steel wires connected to the DSI transmitter. In the remaining canine subjects the SGNA from the LSG and RSG were recorded using the bare wires that came with the DSI transmitter. shows the strong correlation between the SGNA signals obtained from the LSG of a normal canine subject by nanoelectrode array and by stainless steel wire. An example of the actual SGNA recordings from the nanoelectrode and wire electrode is further depicted at the bottom of the bar graph. demonstrates that SGNA may be adequately recorded using either the nanoelectrode array or the stainless steel wire electrode.

The DSI transmitter model D70 CCP was used for one canine subject to record one channel of SGNA from the LSG one channel of ECG and one channel of blood pressure. In this canine subject a blood pressure transducer was implanted into the descending aorta through a puncture hole in the left subclavian artery and the hole was then closed with a purse string suture.

Manual and automated methods were used to examine the data obtained from the DSI transmitter. Manual analyses were used for short up to 10 minute segments of unprocessed raw data to correlate the sympathetic discharges with changes in blood pressure and heart rate. Automated analyses were performed using custom written software. During offline analysis the sampled SGNA signal was digitally filtered between 25 and 150 Hz with an 8th order elliptical band pass filter implemented in MATLAB Mathworks Natick Mass. . The resulting signal was then full wave rectified. A scalar value representing the average level of the SGNA was derived from the average value of this rectified and filtered signal.

The successful recording of SGNA is confirmed by a strong relationship between the signals registered from the stellate ganglia and the heart rate responses in all canine subjects studied. show continuous tracings of SGNA recordings from the RSG and the LSG and the concurrent electrocardiogram ECG from a normal canine subject. show the baseline SGNA recording which shows the absence of SGNA from the RSG and LSG and the concurrent ECG which shows a slow heart rate with significant sinus arrhythmia. show the increased SGNA recordings during rapid heart rate. Specifically rapid heart rate is associated with increased left SGNA and sporadic right SGNA increased right SGNA and sporadic left SGNA and increased bilateral left and right SGNA .

The relationship between SGNA from the LSG and the heart rate are further demonstrated in the continuous recordings of heart rate blood pressure and SGNA from the LSG in a normal canine subject as shown in . are continuous recordings obtained from an ambulatory normal canine subject fifteen 15 days after implantation of the stainless steel wire electrode. In the increase in SGNA at a was followed by an increase in heart rate. In further increases in SGNA at b resulted in further increases in heart rate. In brief bursts of SGNA at c were followed by immediate acceleration in heart rate. The arrows point to possible motion artifacts. show the relationship between SGNA and blood pressure at baseline d unilateral increase in SGNA from the RSG at e and bilateral increase in SGNA from both the LSG and RSG at f . Again a stainless steel wire electrode was used to obtain the SGNA recordings.

There is a circadian variation of the incidence of sudden cardiac death. One possible explanation for this circadian variation may be the pattern of sympathetic activity. High sympathetic tone in the daytime may trigger the onset of ventricular arrhythmia. This is supported by the finding that circadian variation of sudden cardiac death or fatal myocardial infarction is substantially eliminated by administering propanolol in patients with heart disease and complex ventricular arrhythmia. Aronow W S et al. Circadian variation of sudden cardiac death or fatal myocardial infarction is abolished by propanolol in patients with heart disease and complex ventricular arrhythmias. Am. J. Cardiol. 1994 74 816 821.

Circadian variations of SGNA were studied by analyzing the SGNA recordings from the LSG and RSG of normal ambulatory canine subjects. The SGNA recordings obtained from the canine subjects were filtered to eliminate artifacts and far field ECG signals. The filtered SGNA signals were then subjected to automated analyses to determine the SGNA amplitude. Data from one week of continuous SGNA recordings were pooled together and averaged for each hour of the day. The SGNA recordings were then normalized to the SGNA recording at hour 0 midnight .

Upon completion of the drug tests the canine subjects were anesthetized with isofluorane. The subcutaneous pocket was opened and the electrical wires leading to the stellate ganglion were cut. These wires were used for electrical stimulation and for recording SGNA using a Prucka Cardiolab system. The signals were acquired at 979 samples per second. The high pass and low pass filter settings were 30 and 500 Hz respectively. A catheter in the femoral artery was used for monitoring blood pressure. After baseline SGNA surface ECG and femoral blood pressure was measured simultaneously for a 30 minute period electrical stimulation 5 50 mA 5 ms pulse width at 20 Hz was applied for 30 seconds through the implanted wires to the stellate ganglia.

Electrical stimulation of the stellate ganglia resulted in abrupt increases in heart rate and blood pressure in all normal canine subjects. shows the effects of electrical stimulation in one canine subject. No spontaneous SGNA was observed before commencement of electrical stimulation. LSG and RSG stimulation resulted in significantly increased blood pressure which persisted after electrical stimulation. As shown in a 50 mA current administered to the LSG resulted in an immediate increase in blood pressure whereas in a 50 mA current administered to the RSG resulted in an increase in blood pressure within about 5 seconds.

At the end of the electrical stimulation the stimulated stellate ganglion showed no electrical activity but the contralateral stellate ganglion showed continuous discharges associated with persistently elevated blood pressure and heart rate. These discharges may persist from 3 to 20 minutes and suggest that the LSG and RSG communicate with each other through synapses in the spinal cord. These findings are also consistent with the observation that the SGNA from the LSG and RSG usually occur together although the SGNA from the RSG may precede earlier than the SGNA from the LSG in most cases.

As shown in transient ST segment elevation in the recorded ECG was also observed during electrical stimulation indicating significant myocardial ischemia probably as a combined result of alpha receptor induced coronary constriction and beta receptor mediated increase in oxygen consumption.

In two of the three canine subjects with bilateral SGNA recordings electrical stimulation of the stellate ganglion on one side resulted in persistent SGNA of the contralateral stellate ganglion. In other words electrical stimulation of the stellate ganglion on one side resulted in persistent SGNA of the contraleteral stellate ganglion.

Beta blocker nadolol therapy was administered to all six normal canine subjects. The results showed that the averaged heart rate reduced from 99 8 bpm at baseline to 88 9 bpm during nadolol therapy n 6 p 0.001 . Heart rate reduction was observed in all six canine subjects studied. However the averaged SGNA from thel LSG during nadolol therapy as a ratio of baseline SGNA was 0.96 0.09 n 6 p 0.07 .

Nitroprusside was also administered to the canine subjects via intravenous line infusion and resulted in transient reduction in blood pressure and a modest increase in SGNA. Phenylephrine infusion was observed to increase blood pressure and decrease SGNA. Thus SGNA was higher during nitroprusside infusion as compared to during phenylephrine infusion.

Continuous sympathetic nerve recordings were also obtained from four 4 canine models for sudden cardiac death. A canine model for sudden cardiac death is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 351 668 which is incorporated herein by reference. The circumstances under which sudden cardiac death occurs in canine subjects are similar to circumstances under which sudden cardiac death occurs in human patients. Accordingly a canine SCD model may be used to analyze and identify conditions within the heart leading up to a ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation of the type leading to sudden cardiac death as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 353 757 which is incorporated herein by reference. A canine SCD model may also be used to develop and test the effectiveness of new techniques for preventing a ventricular tachycardia ventricular fibrillation or sudden cardiac death from occurring as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 398 800 and pending U.S. application Ser. No. 10 033 400 filed Dec. 12 2001 which are incorporated herein by reference.

The canine SCD model is created by inducing myocardial hyperinnervation within the LSG in combination with creating a complete atrioventricular AV block and inducing a relatively mild myocardial infarction MI . The AV block is typically created by ablating the AV node of the heart using an ablation catheter and the MI is induced by ligating the left anterior descending portion of the coronary artery. Myocardial hyperinnervation is stimulated by application of nerve growth factor NGF or other neurotrophic vectors to the LSG. Alternatively electrical stimulation signals may be applied to the LSG.

By creating an AV block and by inducing an MI within the heart of an adult canine test subject and then by stimulating nerve growth within the LSG of the subject using NGF a significant increase in the likelihood of SCD arising from phase two ventricular arrhythmias has been observed. Thus the method permits SCD to be induced within test animals in a manner facilitating the collection of data pertinent to conditions within the heart arising prior to SCD and for testing techniques intended to prevent phase two VT and VF within patients subject to a previous MI.

In the SCD model canine subjects SGNA recordings from the LSG were obtained from the stainless steel wires of the DSI model D70 EEE transmitter implanted under the fascia of the LSG. ECG recordings were obtained by connecting two biopotential channels of the DSI transmitter to local left ventricle and left atrial recordings respectively.

An increase in SGNA from the LSG was observed to precede the onset of ventricular tachycardia ventricular fibrillation and sudden cardiac death. are simultaneous 30 second recordings of SGNA from the LSG and ECG in a canine SCD model taken four weeks after the first surgery. shows the onset of ventricular tachycardia following either persistent SGNA as indicated by the horizontal line above the SGNA recordings. The onset of ventricular tachycardia also induced by intermittent SGNA as indicated by the arrows in . Increased SGNA from the LSG induced VT after a 6 second latency. The asterisk in shows a signal drop likely due to the movement of the SCD canine subject.

The relationship between elevated SGNA from the LSG and heart rate is depicted in which shows a 60 second bipolar LV and LA electrograms and SGNA obtained by a stainless steel wire electrode implanted in the LSG of a canine SCD model. The LV recording showed accelerated escape rate and reduced electrogram amplitude soon after the onset of SGNA. The onset of increased SGNA as indicated by the arrow was followed by ventricular fibrillation after approximately 40 seconds.

Stellate ganglion nerve activity SGNA from 7 dogs with myocardial infarction complete atrioventricular block and nerve growth factor NGF infusion to the left stellate ganglion sudden death model was successfully recorded. In addition to the high frequency SGNA examples shown in interesting high amplitude epileptiform like spikes in the SGNA recordings were observed in all 7 dogs. shows a typical example of the high amplitude spikes newly observed from the left stellate ganglion in a canine model of sudden cardiac death. The baseline wondering is similar to the paroxysmal depolarization shift that accompanies spike discharges which are the neurophysiological hall marks of seizures. The spike frequency is about 6 Hz in this example. Repeated measurements have shown that the frequency of these spikes is about 6.6 0.77 HZ and their amplitude is about 0.91 0.16 mV. show that these epileptiform like spikes arrows in panel A precede the onset of ventricular tachycardia VT . The upper tracings show left SGNA and the lower tracings show the simultaneously recorded ECG.

These novel spikes are similar to the epileptiform discharges seen on electroencephalogram recordings in patients with seizure disorders. Significantly while these high frequency spikes were seen in all 7 dogs in the sudden death model group they were not seen in any of the 6 normal control dogs. These results show that abnormal SGNA is present in the stellate ganglion in this canine model of sudden cardiac death and that there is a causal relationship between abnormal SGNA and ventricular arrhythmias.

The SGNA recorded in the sudden death model was partially analyzed N 7 . These dogs were monitored for an average of 55 43 days per dog. Among them 3 dogs died suddenly during follow up. All 7 dogs had phase 1 ventricular tachycardia VT that occurred immediately post infarct period and phase 2 ventricular tachycardia VT that occurred 10 days after myocardial infarction . Data Sciences International DSI monitoring showed that there were 1.4 1.1 phase 2 ventricular tachycardia episodes day. Randomly selected phase 2 ventricular tachycardia episodes N 205 from 4 dogs were analyzed. The results showed that 177 of 205 ventricular tachycardia episodes 86.3 were preceded by elevated SGNA. The elevated SGNA can be either high frequency activation such as that shown in or in the form of epileptiform discharges .

A new software was developed to analyze the nerve activity. shows an example of selected one minute recording of ECG left SGNA and right SGNA from dog 4 of the study that included 6 normal dogs. Panels A and B are continuous tracings. Note that the onset of SGNA arrow is associated with a shortened activation cycle length and decreased heart rate variability. Panel C shows RR interval and SGNA plotted against consecutive beats QRS complexes . The SGNA signals were first filtered to eliminate the low frequency motion noise and the superimposed ECG complexes. They were then analyzed based on a dV dt threshold criterion. In this tracing all events that exceeded 0.25 V s were selected as nerve activity. The amplitude of the nerve activity in each RR interval was summed and plotted against time. Note that the RR interval plot shows significant periodic baseline variations that ranged from 400 ms to 1100 ms even before the onset of SGNA shown in the lower two lines in Panel C. Onset of right SGNA was immediately followed by the onset of left SGNA and was associated with reduced RR interval and RR interval variability. While the right SGNA remained at a high level after its onset the left SGNA reached its peak within 10 heart beats before gradually declining. The onset of SGNA shortened the activation cycle length from 760 136 ms to 577 73 ms p 0.0021 and decreased the standard deviation of all N N intervals SDNN from 236 93 ms to 121 51 ms p 0.007 on average in the 6 studied normal dogs. The ratio of SDNN and mean NN SDNN mean NN also reduced significantly from 0.30 0.08 at baseline to 0.20 0.06 during SGNA p 0.015 . The preliminary results shown in support the feasibility of the SDNN analyses used in the research study design. The results show that sympathetic nerve activity reduces heart rate variability.

Anti convulsant drugs may exert an anti arrhythmic effect by suppressing the high frequency SGNA from the LSG. Phenytoin Dilantin is one of the most commonly used anti convulsants and has been shown to suppress the SGNA in ambulatory canine subjects within the therapeutic range of 10 20 mg L.

After confirming the successful recording of SGNA from the canine subject 400 mg approximately 18 mg kg of phenytoin was administered intravenously to the canine subject. Phenytoin was injected at 9 45 a.m. and the tracings following that time show the effects of phenytoin injection on the heart rate and the SGNA of the canine subject.

The serum concentration of the canine subject two hours after the initial injection was 12.9 mg L which was within the therapeutic range of 10 20 mg L. The results showed that SGNA appeared to decrease significantly 3 12 hours after the initial injection. There was an increase in the SGNA observed roughly 20 hours after the initial injection which may represent a rebound sympathetic neural discharges hyper activation.

An oral dose of phenytoin was also administered to the canine subject 800 mg single dose or roughly 30 mg kg after serum levels from the initial injection of phenytoin dropped to zero. The serum level 2 hours after the oral dose was 2.2 mg L which is sub therapeutic. At this dose there were little changes in the SGNA. These data show that a therapeutic dose of phenytoin can suppress SGNA from the LSG and that a sub therapeutic dose has little effect. The data also suggest that a dose response relationship may be present.

