---

title: Printing systems and methods of using such printing systems
abstract: A printing system (′) includes at least one ejector coupled to a reservoir () that is configured to contain a printing composition including a hydrocarbon having at least one unsaturated bond. The hydrocarbon is configured to at least one of polymerize or crosslink in the presence of a reactive species. The at least one ejector is configured to eject the printing composition onto a surface (). The system (′) further includes a corona generator (′″) configured to generate the reactive species in situ. The corona generator (′″) is positioned with respect to the reservoir () such that the reactive species is exposed to the printing composition after the printing composition has been ejected onto the surface (). The polymerizing and/or the cross-linking of the hydrocarbon is configured to form a polymer matrix () from the ejected printing composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09488927&OS=09488927&RS=09488927
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 09488927
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
Digital printing is a process that generally involves reproducing a digital or computerized image onto a print medium. This process is typically accomplished using a digital printing system that utilizes electrical charges electric field to transfer a printing composition such as an ink a toner or the like onto the print medium during printing. In some instances the composition is printed directly onto the print medium and in other instances the composition is printed onto an intermediate transfer medium and is then transferred to the print medium. The transferred printing composition forms an image on the medium where such image substantially identically reflects the original digital or computerized image.

Embodiment s of the printing system as disclosed herein are digital printing systems that may be used to establish a polymer matrix on a substrate. The printing composition used to create the polymer matrix includes a carrier that is configured to be crosslinked and or polymerized in the presence of a reactive e.g. charged species. Rather than using a chemical based initiator whose by products may in some cases have deleterious side effects the embodiment s of the system advantageously utilize the reactive species that is discharged from one or more corona generators operatively disposed in the digital printing system. The corona generators used to initiate crosslinking and or polymerization are operatively positioned downstream of where the printing composition is printed.

The carrier is configured to be directly crosslinked and or polymerized which may be the result of extensive crosslinking in the presence of a charged species and then transferred onto the surface of the desirable print medium or substrate. The polymerizing and or crosslinking of the carrier results in the formation of a polymer matrix which may in some instances be a thin film or layer having a substantially continuous polymer network i.e. film or layer in which the polymer coverage extends over a length or diameter of at least 100 m . It is to be understood however that the resulting polymer matrix may be printed in any desirable pattern including dot patterns e.g. where each dot has a diameter of at least 5 m line patterns e.g. where each line has a width of at least 5 m or any other desirable geometric pattern. In embodiment s where the printing composition includes a colorant the initial polymerizable and or crosslinkable carrier serves as a medium that suspends the colorant therein. As polymerization and or crosslinking occurs the colorant becomes embedded in the resulting solid polymerized and or crosslinked matrix of the carrier. More specifically the solid polymer crosslinked matrix provides a network to suspend and retain the colorant which protects the colorant from physical damage such as e.g. rubbing and scratching and enhances the water and solvent fastness of the prints. As such this embedded colorant configuration advantageously protects the printed image i.e. the polymer matrix transferred to the substrate surface at least against chemical and or physical deterioration caused for example from oxidation exposure to moisture and rub or highlighter smearing.

An example of the printing method is generally depicted in . The method begins by preparing the printing composition as shown by reference numeral .

The printing composition prepared herein is configured to be printable by a digital printing system or printer. Non limiting examples of digital printing systems or printers are shown in and include digital inkjet printers digital laser printers electrophotographic printers or combinations thereof. As such the printing composition disclosed herein may also be referred to as a digital printing composition.

The printing composition is a liquid composition a solid composition or a composition having a phase that is between a liquid and a solid such as e.g. a paste depending at least in part upon the digital printing system to be used. As will be described in further detail below the printing composition may be a fixer or gloss enhancer an ink or a toner. As such some embodiments of the printing composition prepared herein include in its simplest form a carrier. In other embodiments the printing composition includes the carrier and a colorant. In yet further embodiments it may be desirable to also add solvents such as long chain alcohols i.e. number of carbon is greater than 6 and alkane diols and polymeric additives e.g. oil soluble polymers . Still further it may be desirable that some of the embodiments of the printing composition disclosed herein may or may not include other additives such as e.g. binder solvents surfactants etc. The addition or elimination of additives from the compositions disclosed herein will depend at least in part upon the jetting technique used. For example when jetting the oil based inks thermally nucleation agents such as the previously mentioned alcohols may be desirable and when jetting the oil based inks with a piezoelectric printhead polymers may be used to increase the viscosity. Generally the total solvent when used will be present in an amount less than 10 wt. of the composition and or the total binder when used will be present in an amount less than 5 wt. of the total wt. of the composition.

The carrier present in the embodiments of the composition disclosed herein may be a liquid a solid or a phase between a liquid and a solid such as e.g. a paste depending at least in part upon the digital printing system to be used. When a solid carrier is utilized it is to be understood that the heat generated during printing melts the solid carrier to enable printing. Solid carriers may begin to re solidify on their own due to the decrease in temperature after melting and printing. However it is believed that exposing the melted and printed previously solid carrier to a charged species may decrease the time for the re solidification process by initiating or enhancing i.e. speeding up polymerization and or crosslinking.

In embodiments of the composition in which the carrier alone is utilized i.e. no colorant dispersant or other additive is present the printing composition is a fixer fluid or a gloss enhancer that includes a substantially optically transparent liquid or solid that melts during printing. In such embodiments the substantially optically transparent carrier is a hydrocarbon initially in liquid or solid form that when printed does not exhibit or exhibits minimal color and or transmits more than 90 of light in the visible spectrum range incident thereon. The substantially optically transparent carrier may therefore be completely transparent or may be a slight variation thereof. When colorants are added to the substantially optically transparent carrier the composition exhibits the shade or hue of the colorant used.

For liquid based solid based and paste based carriers the carrier is oil based and generally includes a hydrocarbon polymer precursor also referred to herein as a hydrocarbon that is configured to from its liquid form polymerize and or crosslink in the presence of a reactive species. More specifically the embodiments of the carrier disclosed herein each include a hydrocarbon having at least one degree of unsaturation. In an example the hydrocarbon includes a single unsaturated bond i.e. a C C bond . In other embodiments the hydrocarbon includes two three or more unsaturated bonds. It is to be understood that for these other embodiments the hydrocarbon may have as many unsaturated bonds as desirable. It is to be understood that any hydrocarbon having one or more unsaturated bonds may be used as the carrier so long as the hydrocarbon will polymerize and or crosslink in the presence of the reactive species. It is to be further understood that the hydrocarbon is also printable via a digital printer or printing system i.e. where the hydrocarbon when incorporated into the printing composition can be printed without clogging the nozzles of the printhead or other fluid flow components of the system etc. . Printable hydrocarbons may be selected from those having a viscosity ranging from about 5 cP to about 100 cP. For printing systems utilizing printheads e.g. thermal or piezoelectric printheads the hydrocarbons may be selected from those having a viscosity ranging from about 10 cP to about 35 cP. Furthermore the surface tension of the hydrocarbon desirably ranges from about 24 dynes cm to about 30 dynes cm. In some cases the elasticity is also a factor in selecting the hydrocarbon for the carrier.

Some specific examples of hydrocarbons that may be used in embodiments of the printing composition disclosed herein are now provided. In one example the hydrocarbon may be an oil. In an example the oil is selected from a dielectric material having a conductivity up to 200 pS cm. In another example the oil has a conductivity of equal to or less than 1 pS cm. Examples of suitable oils include but are not limited to unsaturated fatty acids glycerides or combinations thereof some non limiting examples of which include 1 palmitoyl 2 oleoyl glycerol capric glycerides such as those of the MIGLYOL series manufactured by Sasol Johannesburg South Africa glycerol stearates such as those of the IMWITOR series also manufactured by Sasol Linseed oil and combinations thereof.

In another example the hydrocarbon is selected from those where one or more of the unsaturated bond s is are conjugated. Some non limiting examples of these hydrocarbons include dienes i.e. polyunsaturated fatty acids containing conjugated double bonds such as Omega 3 Omega 6 and Omega 9 acids enones such as methyl vinyl ketone and chalcone or terminal olefins. Non limiting examples of such terminal olefins include styrenes e.g. styrene methylstyrene vinylstyrene dimethylstyrene chlorostryene dichlorostyrene tert butylstyrene bromostyrene and p chloromethylstyrene monofunctional acrylic esters e.g. methyl acrylate ethyl acrylate isopropyl acrylate n butyl acrylate butoxyethyl acrylate isobutyl acrylate n amyl acrylate isoamyl acrylate n hexyl acrylate octyl acrylate decyl acrylate dodecyl acrylate octadecyl acrylate benzyl acrylate phenyl acrylate phenoxyethyl acrylate cyclohexyl acrylate dicyclopentanyl acrylate dicyclopentenyl acrylate dicyclopentenyloxyethyl acrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl acrylate isobornyl acrylate isoamyl acrylate lauryl acrylate stearyl acrylate benhenyl acrylate ethoxydiethylene glycol acrylate methoxytriethylene glycol acrylate methoxydipropylene glycol acrylate phenoxypolyethylene glycol acrylate nonylphenol EO adduct acrylate isooctyl acrylate isomyristyl acrylate isostearyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl diglycol acrylate and oxtoxypolyethylene glycol polypropylene glycol monoacrylate monofunctional methacrylic esters e.g. methyl methacrylate ethyl methacrylate isopropyl methacrylate n butyl methacrylate i butyl methacrylate tert butyl methacrylate n amyl methacrylate isoamyl methacrylate n hexyl methacrylate 2 ethylhexyl methacrylate lauryl methacrylate tridecyl methacrylate stearyl methacrylate isodecyl methacrylate octyl methacrylate decyl methacrylate dodecyl methacrylate octadecyl methacrylate methoxydiethylene glycol methacrylate polypropylene glycol monomethacrylate benzyl methacrylate phenyl methacrylate phenoxyethyl methacrylate cyclohexyl methacrylate tetrahydrofurfuryl methacrylate tert butylcyclohexyl methacrylate behenyl methacrylate dicyclopentanyl methacrylate dicyclopentenyloxyethyl methacrylate and polypropylene glycol monomethacrylate allyl compounds e.g. allylbenzene allyl 3 cyclohexane propionate 1 allyl 3 4 dimethoxybenzene allyl phenoxyacetate allyl phenylacetate allylcyclohexane and allyl polyvalent carboxylate unsaturated esters of fumaric acid maleic acid itaconic acid etc. and radical polymerizable group containing monomers e.g. N substituted maleimide and cyclic olefins . Non limiting examples of suitable hydrophobic prepolymers include low molecular weight e.g. where the molecular weight is less than 1000 and the viscosity is less than 300 cP acrylic oligomers such as e.g. polyethylene co acrylic acid polystyrene co polyhexylacrylate and polyethylene co methacrylic acid.

In still another example the hydrocarbon may be selected from those that are halogenated or include a ketone or combinations thereof. Some non limiting examples of hydrocarbons that are halogenated include fluorocarbons such as TEFLON Dupont Midland Mich. and chlorinated polymers such as polyvinyl chloride PVC . A non limiting example of a hydrocarbon including a ketone includes a polyacrylate. Some non limiting examples of hydrocarbons that are both halogenated and include ketone s include alkyl chloroacrylates e.g. methyl 2 chloroacrylate and ethyl 2 chloroacrylate and ethyl chloroacetate.

The carrier may in some embodiments include a single hydrocarbon selected from any of the hydrocarbons identified above. In other embodiments the carrier may include combinations of two or more of the above identified hydrocarbons. In an embodiment the carrier may include a combination of a halogenated hydrocarbon and an oil a mixture of various linseed oils or a mixture of linseed oil and any other hydrocarbon s listed herein.

Additionally the hydrocarbon alone typically constitutes the medium of the carrier. In some cases it may be desirable to add other non reacting oil based components to the carrier. Non limiting examples of the non reacting oil based components include aliphatic hydrocarbons such as hexanes heptanes hexadodecane and ISOPAR isoparaffinic fluids Exxon Mobile Houston Tex. . When these non reacting oil based components are added they may be present in an amount ranging from 0.5 wt. to 5.0 wt. of the total weight of the composition.

In instances where the printing composition is an ink or a toner the printing composition further includes the colorant. As used herein the term colorant refers to i one or more pigments ii one or more dyes or iii combinations of pigment s and dye s . In two non limiting examples the colorant may be selected from pigment particles that are self dispersible in the carrier or a combination of the self dispersing pigment and a dye. In these examples the printing composition includes the carrier and the pigment or the carrier and the pigment and the dye alone i.e. without additional components . In two other non limiting examples the colorant may be selected from pigment particles that are non self dispersible in the carrier or a combination of the non self dispersing pigment and a dye. In the latter examples the printing composition includes one or more dispersants in addition to the carrier and the pigment or the carrier and the pigment and the dye. In yet another non limiting example the colorant is selected from a dye alone. In this example the printing composition includes the carrier and the dye without pigments and without dispersants. As previously mentioned however solvents and or binders may also be added.

The compositions disclosed herein may include 1 wt. to 100 wt. non volatile solids e.g. 100 wt. includes when the carrier is a solid . When the colorant is included the colorant can make up from about 1.5 wt. to about 50 wt. of the total non volatile solids.

When utilized the dispersant is selected so that it is at least partially soluble in the selected carrier. For example in instances where the carrier is an oil based hydrocarbon e.g. unsaturated fatty acids glycerides etc. the dispersant may be selected from dispersants that are at least partially soluble in the oil based hydrocarbon. The dispersants may be selected from anionic dispersants cationic dispersants amphoteric dispersants non ionic dispersants polymeric dispersants oligomeric dispersants crosslinking dispersants or combinations thereof. Examples of anionic dispersants include sulfosuccinic acid and derivatives thereof such as for instance alkyl sulfosuccinates such as GEROPON SBFA 30 and GEROPON SSO 75 both of which are manufactured by Rhodia Boulogne Billancourt France and docusate sodium. Examples of cationic dispersants include quaternary amine polymers protonated amine polymers or polymers containing aluminum such as those that are available from Lubrizol Corp. Wickliffe Ohio . Further examples of cationic dispersants include SOLSPERSE 19000 Lubrizol Corp. and other like cationic dispersants. Amphoteric dispersants include those that contain compounds having protonizable groups and or ionizable acid groups. A non limiting example of a suitable amphoteric dispersant includes lecithin. Examples of non ionic dispersants include but are not limited to oil soluble polyesters polyamines polyacrylates polymethacrylates such as e.g. SOLSPERSE 3000 Lubrizol Corp. SOLSPERSE 21000 Lubrizol Corp. or the like . Non limiting examples of oligomeric dispersants include low average molecular weight i.e. less than 1000 non ionic dispersants. Examples of cross linking dispersants include but are not limited to polymers or oligomers containing two or more carbon double bonds C C and free amine groups such as e.g. polyamines crosslinkable polyurethanes and divinyl benzene.

When a dispersant is used the dispersant may be included in an amount ranging from about 2 wt. to about 100 wt. of the total non volatile solids present. In one non limiting example the dispersant is present in an amount of about 10 wt. .

In the embodiments where the colorant is or includes a pigment the pigment may be selected from organic pigments or inorganic pigments particles and such particles may have any particle size that allows the composition including the pigment to be printed from the digital printer. In an example the particle size of the pigments range from about 1 nm to about 10 m. In another example the particle size of the pigments range from about 100 nm to about 300 nm. In still another example particle size ranges from about 1 m to about 20 m. Organic or inorganic pigment particles may be selected from but are not limited to black pigment particles yellow pigment particles magenta pigment particles red pigment particles cyan pigment particles blue pigment particles green pigment particles orange pigment particles brown pigment particles and white pigment particles. In some instances the organic or inorganic pigment particles may include spot color or specialty pigment particles. Spot color pigments are formed from a combination of a predefined ratio of two or more primary color pigment particles. Specialty pigments may e.g. be metallic fluorescent and or opalescent pigments.

A non limiting example of a suitable inorganic black pigment includes carbon black. Examples of carbon black pigments include those manufactured by Mitsubishi Chemical Corporation Japan such as e.g. carbon black No. 2300 No. 900 MCF88 No. 33 No. 40 No. 45 No. 52 MA7 MA8 MA100 and No. 2200B various carbon black pigments of the RAVEN series manufactured by Columbian Chemicals Company Marietta Ga. such as e.g. RAVEN 5750 RAVEN 5250 RAVEN 5000 RAVEN 3500 RAVEN 1255 and RAVEN 700 various carbon black pigments of the REGAL series the MOGUL series or the MONARCH series manufactured by Cabot Corporation Boston Mass. such as e.g. REGAL 400R REGAL 330R and REGAL 660R and various black pigments manufactured by Evonik Degussa Corporation Parsippany N.J. such as e.g. Color Black FW1 Color Black FW2 Color Black FW2V Color Black FW18 Color Black FW200 Color Black S150 Color Black S160 Color Black S170 PRINTEX 35 PRINTEX U PRINTEX V PRINTEX 140U Special Black 5 Special Black 4A and Special Black 4 . A non limiting example of an organic black pigment includes aniline black such as C.I. Pigment Black 1.

Some non limiting examples of suitable yellow pigments include C.I. Pigment Yellow 1 C.I. Pigment Yellow 2 C.I. Pigment Yellow 3 C.I. Pigment Yellow 4 C.I. Pigment Yellow 5 C.I. Pigment Yellow 6 C.I. Pigment Yellow 7 C.I. Pigment Yellow 10 C.I. Pigment Yellow 11 C.I. Pigment Yellow 12 C.I. Pigment Yellow 13 C.I. Pigment Yellow 14 C.I. Pigment Yellow 16 C.I. Pigment Yellow 17 C.I. Pigment Yellow 24 C.I. Pigment Yellow 34 C.I. Pigment Yellow 35 C.I. Pigment Yellow 37 C.I. Pigment Yellow 53 C.I. Pigment Yellow 55 C.I. Pigment Yellow 65 C.I. Pigment Yellow 73 C.I. Pigment Yellow 74 C.I. Pigment Yellow 75 C.I. Pigment Yellow 81 C.I. Pigment Yellow 83 C.I. Pigment Yellow 93 C.I. Pigment Yellow 94 C.I. Pigment Yellow 95 C.I. Pigment Yellow 97 C.I. Pigment Yellow 98 C.I. Pigment Yellow 99 C.I. Pigment Yellow 108 C.I. Pigment Yellow 109 C.I. Pigment Yellow 110 C.I. Pigment Yellow 113 C.I. Pigment Yellow 114 C.I. Pigment Yellow 117 C.I. Pigment Yellow 120 C.I. Pigment Yellow 124 C.I. Pigment Yellow 128 C.I. Pigment Yellow 129 C.I. Pigment Yellow 133 C.I. Pigment Yellow 138 C.I. Pigment Yellow 139 C.I. Pigment Yellow 147 C.I. Pigment Yellow 151 C.I. Pigment Yellow 153 C.I. Pigment Yellow 154 C.I. Pigment Yellow 167 C.I. Pigment Yellow 172 C.I. Pigment Yellow 180 and C.I. Pigment Yellow 185.

Non limiting examples of suitable magenta or red organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Red 1 C.I. Pigment Red 2 C.I. Pigment Red 3 C.I. Pigment Red 4 C.I. Pigment Red 5 C.I. Pigment Red 6 C.I. Pigment Red 7 C.I. Pigment Red 8 C.I. Pigment Red 9 C.I. Pigment Red 10 C.I. Pigment Red 11 C.I. Pigment Red 12 C.I. Pigment Red 14 C.I. Pigment Red 15 C.I. Pigment Red 16 C.I. Pigment Red 17 C.I. Pigment Red 18 C.I. Pigment Red 19 C.I. Pigment Red 21 C.I. Pigment Red 22 C.I. Pigment Red 23 C.I. Pigment Red 30 C.I. Pigment Red 31 C.I. Pigment Red 32 C.I. Pigment Red 37 C.I. Pigment Red 38 C.I. Pigment Red 40 C.I. Pigment Red 41 C.I. Pigment Red 42 C.I. Pigment Red 48 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 48 Mn C.I. Pigment Red 57 Ca C.I. Pigment Red 57 1 C.I. Pigment Red 88 C.I. Pigment Red 112 C.I. Pigment Red 114 C.I. Pigment Red 122 C.I. Pigment Red 123 C.I. Pigment Red 144 C.I. Pigment Red 146 C.I. Pigment Red 149 C.I. Pigment Red 150 C.I. Pigment Red 166 C.I. Pigment Red 168 C.I. Pigment Red 170 C.I. Pigment Red 171 C.I. Pigment Red 175 C.I. Pigment Red 176 C.I. Pigment Red 177 C.I. Pigment Red 178 C.I. Pigment Red 179 C.I. Pigment Red 184 C.I. Pigment Red 185 C.I. Pigment Red 187 C.I. Pigment Red 202 C.I. Pigment Red 209 C.I. Pigment Red 219 C.I. Pigment Red 224 C.I. Pigment Red 245 C.I. Pigment Violet 19 C.I. Pigment Violet 23 C.I. Pigment Violet 32 C.I. Pigment Violet 33 C.I. Pigment Violet 36 C.I. Pigment Violet 38 C.I. Pigment Violet 43 and C.I. Pigment Violet 50.

Non limiting examples of blue or cyan organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Blue 1 C.I. Pigment Blue 2 C.I. Pigment Blue 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 3 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 34 C.I. Pigment Blue 15 4 C.I. Pigment Blue 16 C.I. Pigment Blue 18 C.I. Pigment Blue 22 C.I. Pigment Blue 25 C.I. Pigment Blue 60 C.I. Pigment Blue 65 C.I. Pigment Blue 66 C.I. Vat Blue 4 and C.I. Vat Blue 60.

Non limiting examples of green organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Green 1 C.I. Pigment Green 2 C.I. Pigment Green 4 C.I. Pigment Green 7 C.I. Pigment Green 8 C.I. Pigment Green 10 C.I. Pigment Green 36 and C.I. Pigment Green 45.

Non limiting examples of brown organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Brown 1 C.I. Pigment Brown 5 C.I. Pigment Brown 22 C.I. Pigment Brown 23 C.I. Pigment Brown 25 and C.I. Pigment Brown C.I. Pigment Brown 41 and C.I. Pigment Brown 42.

Non limiting examples of orange organic pigments include C.I. Pigment Orange 1 C.I. Pigment Orange 2 C.I. Pigment Orange 5 C.I. Pigment Orange 7 C.I. Pigment Orange 13 C.I. Pigment Orange 15 C.I. Pigment Orange 16 C.I. Pigment Orange 17 C.I. Pigment Orange 19 C.I. Pigment Orange 24 C.I. Pigment Orange 34 C.I. Pigment Orange 36 C.I. Pigment Orange 38 C.I. Pigment Orange 40 C.I. Pigment Orange 43 and C.I. Pigment Orange 66.

In another embodiment the pigment may be selected from metallic pigments where the metallic pigments also have a particle size enabling the composition to be printed from the digital printer. In an example the particle size of the metallic pigment ranges from about 0.1 m to about 20 m. Suitable metallic pigments include but are not limited to a metal selected from gold silver platinum nickel chromium tin zinc indium titanium copper aluminum and alloys of any of these metals. These metals may be used alone or in combinations with two or more metals or metal alloys. Non limiting examples of metallic pigments include Standard RO100 Standard RO200 and DORADO PX 4001 available from Eckart Effect Pigments Wesel Germany .

In yet another embodiment the pigment may be selected from a pearlescent pigment also known as an opalescent pigment where the pearlescent pigments have a particle size that enable the composition to be printed from the digital printer. In an example the pearlescent particle size ranges from about 0.1 m to about 20 m. It is to be understood that suitable pearlescent pigments are those that tend to exhibit various colors depending on the angle of illumination and or of viewing. Non limiting examples of pearlescent pigments include those of the PRESTIGE series and of the DORADO PX series both of which are available from Eckart Effect Pigments.

Some non limiting examples of dyes that may be used as the colorant or one of many colorants include fluorescein rhodamine nigrosine and napthol green.

For liquid inks and toners the printing composition may be prepared by dispersing the colorant and in some instances the dispersant alone or in combination with binder s and or solvent s in the liquid carrier. Dispersing the colorant and any other suitable components may be accomplished using any suitable apparatus non limiting examples of which include a microfluidizer mills and ultrasonicators. In instances where a solid carrier is used such carrier is heated to the melting point of the solid and then the colorants and other additives are incorporated into the melt. Incorporation of the colorants into the melt may be accomplished for example by stirring and or mixing and then allowing the melt to cool and re solidify.

In instances where the printing composition is a fixer the composition is prepared by selecting the hydrocarbon for the carrier. If more than one hydrocarbon is selected for the carrier the hydrocarbons are mixed together in a desirable ratio. As non limiting examples ISOPAR L is mixed with ISOPAR V in a ratio of 80 20 or linseed oil is mixed with ISOPAR L in a ratio of 90 10.

The compositions disclosed herein undergo crosslinking and or polymerization when exposed to corona discharge for a brief time period e.g. 1 minute or less . In order to decrease the corona discharge exposure time needed to initiate crosslinking and or polymerization the compositions disclosed herein may also include drying agents i.e. dryers . Non limiting examples of the dryers are fatty acid salt complexes derived from cobalt manganese or iron with zirconium lead or calcium salts of fatty acids such as for example 2 ethylhexanoic acid e.g. cobalt II 2 ethylhexanoate and manganese bis 2 ethylhexanoate and naphthenic acid e.g. cobalt II naphthenate and ferric naphthenate . These drying agent s may be present in an amount ranging from about 0.1 wt. to about 5 wt. . In one non limiting example the drying agent is included in an amount ranging from about 0.5 wt. to about 1 wt. .

Once the printing composition is generated the method continues with depositing the printing composition onto a surface see reference numeral in generating a reactive species in situ by corona discharge downstream of where the depositing takes place see reference numeral in and initiating crosslinking and or polymerization of the printing composition by exposing the hydrocarbon to the reactive species see reference numeral in .

The reactive species used to initiate crosslinking and or polymerization is generated by a corona generator. It is to be understood that one or more additional corona generators may be included in the various embodiments of the system in order to i create a uniform charge layer on the surface of a photoconductor ii further enhance crosslinking and or polymerization of the formed polymer matrix and or iii assist in transfer of the resulting polymer matrix to a desirable substrate. Each of these embodiments will be discussed further in reference to one of .

Each of the corona generators described herein includes a power supply that is capable of supplying high voltage power to a conductor such as a discharge electrode. The discharge electrode ionizes the atmosphere or gases surrounding the discharge electrode thereby forming a reactive species that reacts with the printing composition. As such the term corona discharge refers to an electrical discharge brought on by the ionization of the atmosphere or gases surrounding a conductor which occurs when the potential gradient the strength of the electric field exceeds a certain value but conditions are insufficient to cause complete electrical breakdown or arcing. The corona generator s may include insulation to prevent against electrical shocks and a ground plate to ground the generator s .

The conductor or discharge electrode may be a single wire or an array of wires i.e. two or more that are spaced apart by a distance ranging from about 500 m to about 2 mm. Examples of suitable wire materials include metals such as platinum gold palladium titanium alloys etc. In the embodiments disclosed herein the wires of the generator s are positioned parallel to the plane of the surface to be exposed to the corona discharge. This is believed to create a relatively uniform discharge field. The wire s of the generator s are also positioned 10 mm or less from the surface to be exposed to the corona discharge.

It is to be generally understood that each of the corona generators are capable of generating a relatively high electric field where such electric fields are used by the digital printing system for image development and formation of the polymer matrix. In a non limiting example the electric charge or field of the corona discharge ranges from about 1 kV to about 5 kV when the current applied to the generator ranges from about 1 A to about 1000 A. The current may be convective current which facilitates improved mixing in the final polymer matrix . Improved mixing is particularly desirable when colorants are included in the composition at least in part because the print quality and durability of the resulting print is enhanced.

Without being bound to any theory it is believed that when each corona generator discharges it forms a high energy species such as e.g. radicals ions etc. . At least one of the generators is positioned in the system such that the high energy species reacts with the unsaturated species e.g. the hydrocarbons in the deposited printing composition to cause crosslinking of the unsaturated species. If the high energy species can propagate through the deposited composition polymerization takes place in addition to crosslinking. As such instead of adding a radical initiator such as AIBN into the composition a corona generator is included in the system to generate the high energy species in an area where the species can initiate crosslinking and possibly polymerization of the hydrocarbon present in the composition. The high energy species react with the surface of the deposited composition and crosslink from the top down and or propagate through the deposited composition causing polymerization.

In an example the charged species used to polymerize and or crosslink the hydrocarbon includes any molecular species having an electrical charge such as e.g. radicals radical ions carbenes cations anions peroxides acids and bases. Some non limiting examples of radicals and radical ions include oxy radicals hydroxyl radicals nitroxide radicals polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon radicals and respective ions of the previously listed radicals. Non limiting examples of carbenes include those that may be generated photolytically from diazirines epoxides and halogenated hydrocarbons such as chloroform. Examples of cations include but are not limited to any compound having a net positive charge such as ammonium carbonium phosphonium and hydronium. Examples of anions include but are not limited to any compound having a net negative charge such as hydroxides sulfides hydrides and deprotonated amines. Non limiting examples of acids and bases include any compound having hydrogen bound to non carbon atoms or Lewis acids and bases. Examples of acids having hydrogen bound to non carbon atoms include organic and inorganic acids such as sulfuric acid phosphoric acid hydrochloric acid nitric acid phenol fatty acids benzolic acid and acetic acid. Examples of bases having hydrogen bound to non carbon atoms include amines sulfides and hydroxyls. Examples of Lewis acids include molecules capable of accepting electrons such as those that include metal halides e.g. aluminum chloride boron trifluoride phosphorus pentachloride and boron trifluoride . Examples of Lewis bases includes molecules that can donate electrons to Lewis acids such as compounds containing nitrogen phosphorus arsenic antimony and or bismuth in oxidation state 3 or compounds containing oxygen sulfur selenium and or tellurium in oxidation state 2. Specific examples of Lewis bases include water ethers ketones sulfoxides and carbon monoxide. Non limiting examples of peroxides include benzoyl peroxide and hydroperoxide.

It is to be understood that the steps shown in may be accomplished differently depending upon the system used. As such the embodiments of the method will now be further described in conjunction with the various systems shown in .

Referring now to an embodiment of the printing system is depicted. This system is one example of a digital inkjet printing system. In this embodiment the printing system includes one or more ink reservoirs or cartridges each of which is associated with a fluid ejector or printhead e.g. a thermal printhead or a piezoelectric printhead . Each reservoir cartridge houses an embodiment of the printing composition described herein. Loading of the composition may be accomplished e.g. by filling the reservoir with the composition which is operatively connected to the fluid ejector or printhead. The cartridge is then loaded into the printing system .

The system also includes the corona generator . As illustrated in the generator is located downstream from the ink cartridge s so that the corona discharge that is generated by the generator is exposed to the printed composition.

Both the fluid ejector printhead and the corona generator are operatively connected to a controller which is capable of running suitable software routines or programs for receiving desirable digital images and generating commands for the fluid ejector printhead and the corona generator to reproduce the digital images on a substrate .

When it is desirable to print a substrate is introduced into the system via a feeding mechanism e.g. including a feed tray rollers or the like and an exit tray which is configured to move the substrate through the printing system . Depending upon the digital image to be printed the controller transmits suitable firing commands to one or more of the printheads to deposit the printing composition s in the form of fluid drops onto one or more portions of the substrate to form the desired image. In instances where at least one of the printing compositions used is a fixer or gloss enhancer the colorless composition may be deposited onto the substrate after the colored ink composition s has have been deposited or at the same time that the colored ink composition s is are being deposited.

Once the printing composition s has have been deposited onto the substrate surface the feeding mechanism moves the coated substrate in the vicinity of the corona generator . The controller transmits suitable commands to the generator to generate a discharge thereby forming the reactive species in situ in the presence of the printed composition s . It is to be understood that the cartridge and the generator may be positioned at any desirable distance from each other so that ink depositing and corona discharge occur substantially simultaneously e.g. when the cartridge and generator are at most a few millimeters apart or sequentially e.g. when the distance between the cartridge and generator is far enough that there is definitive break between ink deposition and corona discharge . The distance between the cartridge and the generator may range anywhere from 1 mm to 100 cm. Furthermore multiple pairs of ink cartridges and corona dischargers may be lined up along the feeding mechanism such that different printing compositions may be jetted and exposed to corona discharge in a sequential manner. Alternatively a carriage may house multiple ink cartridges so that multiple compositions are printed simultaneously and then exposed to corona discharge.

The high energy species generated during corona discharge initiates crosslinking and in some instances polymerization e.g. where extensive crosslinking occurs of the hydrocarbon s of the printed composition ink layer to form a polymer matrix on the surface of the substrate i.e. to form print . More specifically the polymerizing and or crosslinking of the hydrocarbon polymer precursor in the composition forms a substantially continuous hydrocarbon polymer matrix. In an example when pigments are included in the composition and the polymer coverage extends over a length or diameter of at least 100 m the hydrocarbon polymer matrix is considered to be a thin film whereas when no colorants i.e. no pigments or dyes are included and the polymer coverage extends over a length or diameter of at least 100 m the polymer matrix is considered to be a thin layer. It is to be understood however that compositions including i a mixture of a dye and a pigment and or ii a dye and a polymer s may in some cases result in a thin film. As previously mentioned the polymer matrix may also be printed in any suitable pattern including dots lines etc.

These embodiments of the system include an intermediate transfer medium ITM and an impression controller IC. The ITM may be for example a dielectric drum that is configured to rotate in a first direction denoted by the right pointing arrow while the IC is configured to rotate in a second direction denoted by the left pointing arrow that is opposite to the rotation direction of the ITM. These two components ITM and IC operate such that the polymer matrix can be transferred from the ITM to the substrate which is guided by the IC see or such that the printed composition i.e. ink layer can be transferred from the ITM to the substrate which is guided by the IC see e.g. when the additional generators shown in phantom are not included .

While not shown it is to be understood that each of the components are in operative communication with a controller that is capable of running suitable software routines or programs for receiving desirable digital images and generating commands for the fluid ejector printhead the corona generator s the ITM and the IC to reproduce the digital images on a substrate .

Referring now specifically to the cartridge s are operatively positioned such that the printing composition s is are printed directly onto a surface of the ITM such that a composition ink layer not shown is formed on the surface . Depending upon the digital image to be printed the controller not shown transmits suitable firing commands to one or more of the printheads to deposit the printing composition s in the form of fluid drops onto one or more portions of the ITM to form the desirable image thereon. In instances where at least one of the printing compositions used is a fixer or gloss enhancer the colorless composition may be deposited onto the ITM after the colored ink composition s has have been deposited or at the same time that the colored ink composition s is are being deposited.

In this embodiment multiple corona generator arrays are positioned adjacent to the surface of the ITM so that when the ITM is rotated the composition ink layer printed from one cartridge is moved in the vicinity of the adjacent array positioned directly downstream of the cartridge . The controller transmits suitable commands to each of the generators in the array to generate a discharge thereby forming the reactive species in situ in the presence of the printed composition s . The high energy species initiates crosslinking and in some instances polymerization e.g. where extensive crosslinking occurs of the hydrocarbon s of the printed composition ink layer to form the polymer matrix on the surface of the ITM. In this embodiment corona discharge is generated after each ink is deposited.

Upon further rotation of the ITM and upon introduction of the substrate onto the impression controller IC the polymer matrix is transferred from the ITM to the surface of the substrate . As illustrated in the print then exits the printing system .

Referring now specifically to the cartridge s are again operatively positioned such that the printing composition s is are printed directly onto a surface of the ITM such that a composition ink layer is formed on the surface . Depending upon the digital image to be printed the controller not shown transmits suitable firing commands to one or more of the printheads to deposit the printing composition s in the form of fluid drops onto one or more portions of the ITM to form the desirable image thereon. In instances where at least one of the printing compositions used is a fixer or gloss enhancer the colorless composition may be deposited onto the ITM after the colored ink composition s has have been deposited or at the same time that the colored ink composition s is are being deposited.

Respective corona generators shown in phantom may also be included to initiate crosslinking polymerization after each respective composition is deposited. When the generators are included the polymer matrix is formed on the ITM and is transferred to the substrate upon rotation of the ITM similar to . In this embodiment the additional generator shown downstream of the transfer to the substrate is used to enhance crosslinking polymerization and or to enhance adhesion between the polymer matrix and the substrate .

Alternately the corona generators shown in phantom may be excluded and the composition would be formed on the ITM i.e. corona discharge would not take place on the ITM . In this embodiment upon rotation of the ITM and upon introduction of the substrate onto the impression controller IC the composition ink layer is transferred from the ITM to the surface of the substrate . In this embodiment the corona generator or if desirable array is positioned adjacent to the surface of the IC so that when the IC is rotated the composition ink layer on the substrate is moved in the vicinity of the generator . The controller transmits suitable commands to the generator to generate a discharge thereby forming the reactive species in situ in the presence of the printed composition s . The high energy species initiates crosslinking and in some instances polymerization e.g. where extensive crosslinking occurs of the hydrocarbon s of the printed composition ink layer thereby forming the polymer matrix on the surface of the substrate just prior to the substrate exiting the printing system .

Still another embodiment of the system is shown in . This system is one embodiment of an electrophotographic system. The printing system includes a photoconductor P that is configured to rotate in a first direction as denoted by the left pointing arrow in the photoconductor P . The photoconductor P has a surface that may be exposed to various elements of the system when the photoconductor P is rotated.

A first corona generator such as e.g. the previously mentioned printer wire or array of printer wires configured to generate corona discharge is operatively positioned adjacent to a portion of the surface of the photoconductor P. When the system is in operation the corona discharge from corona generator generates a charge on the portion of the photoconductor surface exposed to the discharge. It is to be understood that the photoconductor P rotates to develop a uniform layer of charge on the surface . As previously described the charge may be positive or negative depending upon the type of corona generator used.

The system also includes a laser labeled LASER in that is positioned adjacent to the photoconductor surface . Generally the laser is positioned such that as the photoconductor P rotates in the first direction some of the areas of the surface exposed to the corona discharge from the generator are exposed to the emission from the laser. The laser is selected so that its emission can generate charges opposite to those already present on the surface from within the photoconductor . By virtue of creating these opposite charges the laser effectively neutralizes the previously formed charges at areas exposed to the laser emission. This neutralization forms a latent image. It is to be understood that those areas of the surface not exposed to the laser remain charged.

A controller or processor not shown operatively connected to the laser commands the laser to form the latent image so that the remaining charged portions of the surface can be used to generate the desirable digital image. The processor is capable of running suitable software routines or programs for receiving desirable digital images and generating commands to reproduce the digital images using the laser as well as other components of the system .

The system further includes at least one ink reservoir cartridge containing an embodiment of the composition disclosed herein i.e. includes the hydrocarbon carrier . It is to be understood that in one embodiment the inks are selected to carry a charge that is opposite to that of the uniform layer of charge on the surface . The ink reservoir s cartridge s are also operatively positioned to deposit the ink s onto the remaining charged portion s of the surface to form an ink layer e.g. 18 not shown in this Figure on the surface of the photoconductor P. It is to be understood that the charges remaining on the surface after exposure to the laser will attract the oppositely charged ink s .

Additionally or alternatively it is to be understood that electrically neutral carrier s i.e. inks without colorants can be deposited on the discharged i.e. neutralized regions or the remaining charged regions of the surface so that cross linking polymerization results in the formation of a continuous image e.g. a polymer matrix including colored and colorless areas that is transferred to the substrate . Likewise charged ink can be transferred from cartridge s onto the discharged i.e. neutralized regions on the surface by applying an appropriate potential bias between the cartridges and the surface .

As illustrated in the system further includes the in this instance second corona generator positioned adjacent to either the photoconductor P or an intermediate transfer medium ITM which rotates in a second direction as denoted by the right pointing arrow that is opposite to direction of rotation of the photoconductor P . It is to be understood that the ITM is grounded or positively biased with respect to the photoconductor P.

When positioned adjacent to the photoconductor P it is to be understood that the generator produces the reactive charged species that is exposed to the ink layer e.g. layer not shown while such layer is still positioned on the surface of the photoconductor P. In this embodiment the generator is positioned between the ink reservoirs cartridges and the ITM. The corona discharge from this embodiment of the generator initiates at least one of polymerization or crosslinking of the hydrocarbon in the ink layer to form the polymer matrix on the surface of the photoconductor P. As the photoconductor P continues to rotate the polymer matrix is then transferred to the intermediate transfer medium ITM. As illustrated in the system further includes an impression cylinder IC that is rotatable in the first direction i.e. the same direction as the photoconductor P . The impression cylinder IC guides the substrate such that a surface of the substrate contacts the polymer matrix on the rotating intermediate transfer medium ITM. When in contact the polymer matrix transfers to the substrate .

When positioned adjacent to the intermediate transfer medium ITM it is to be understood that the generator produces a charged species that is exposed to the ink layer after the layer has been transferred from the surface of the photoconductor to the surface of the ITM. In this embodiment the generator is positioned adjacent to the surface of the ITM at an area beyond where the ink layer transfer takes place. The corona discharge from this embodiment of the generator initiates at least one of crosslinking or polymerization of the hydrocarbon in the ink layer to form the polymer matrix on the surface of the ITM. As the intermediate transfer medium ITM continues to rotate the polymer matrix is transferred to the substrate guided by the impression cylinder IC that is rotatable in the first direction i.e. opposite to the rotation of the ITM . The impression cylinder IC guides the substrate such that a surface of the substrate contacts the polymer matrix on the rotating intermediate transfer medium ITM. When in contact the polymer matrix transfers to the substrate .

The system also includes a charge neutralization unit positioned after the ITM and adjacent to the surface of the photoconductor P. The charge neutralization unit neutralizes any opposite charges remaining on the surface of the photoconductor P prior to the next cycle of printing.

Referring now to another embodiment of the electrophotographic system is depicted. This system is similar to the system shown in except that additional corona generators are included. In this embodiment the first generator creates the uniform charge surface on the photoconductor P and the second generator initiates crosslinking and or polymerization of the ink layer e.g. layer not shown while it is on the surface of the photoconductor P.

It is believed that the third corona generator may be used to improve the efficiency of the crosslinking and or polymerization. In this embodiment the third generator is positioned adjacent to the intermediate transfer medium ITM. In some instances after exposure to the corona discharge from the second generator crosslinking and or polymerization of the hydrocarbons in the polymer matrix may not be complete upon transfer of the polymer matrix to the ITM. The third generator produces yet another charged species that is exposed to the polymer matrix after the layer has been transferred from the surface of the photoconductor to the surface of the ITM. In one non limiting example about 80 of the hydrocarbons are crosslinked and or polymerized after exposure to the charged species from generator and exposure to the charged species from the generator may increase the percentage of crosslinked and or polymerized hydrocarbons in the polymer matrix . In this embodiment the third generator is positioned adjacent to the surface of the ITM at an area beyond where the polymer matrix transfer takes place. As previously mentioned the corona discharge from the third generator is believed to enhance the polymerization or crosslinking by exposing any remaining unreacted hydrocarbons in the polymer matrix to complete formation of the polymer matrix on the surface of the ITM.

As the intermediate transfer medium ITM continues to rotate the polymer matrix is transferred to the substrate guided by the impression cylinder IC that is rotatable in the first direction i.e. opposite to the rotation of the ITM . The impression cylinder IC guides the substrate such that a surface of the substrate contacts the polymer matrix on the rotating intermediate transfer medium ITM. When in contact the polymer matrix transfers to the substrate . As illustrated in the system may also include a fourth corona generator . This generator may be positioned adjacent to the impression cylinder IC at any area beyond where the polymer matrix has been transferred to the substrate . This generator produces yet another charged reactive species that aids in fixing the polymer matrix to the substrate .

The system also includes a charge neutralization unit positioned after the ITM and adjacent to the surface of the photoconductor P. The charge neutralization unit neutralizes any opposite charges remaining on the surface of the photoconductor P prior to the next cycle of printing.

In some of the embodiments disclosed herein the transfer of the polymer matrix to the substrate may be aided via pressure transfer or by tailoring the glass transition temperature Tg of the polymer matrix to be from about 50 C. to about 120 C. Tailoring the Tg may be accomplished by selecting the hydrocarbon polymer precursors so that the resulting polymer matrix incorporates both low temperature and high temperature melting or softening polymers. In an example low melting temperature polymers include those that melt or soften e.g. have a Vicat softening point at temperatures ranging from about room temperature e.g. 20 C. to 80 C. and high melting temperature polymers include those that melt or soften at temperature that are greater than 80 C. Alternatively tailoring the Tg may be accomplished by adding oligomers to the hydrocarbon polymer precursors. Examples of suitable oligomers include those having more than three but less than ten repeating units. For instance the oligomer may be a short chain version of an acrylic acid such as an acrylic acid having five repeating units rendering the acrylic acid as a polymer . When the Tg is tailored internal or external heating at the ITM may be used to create a tacky polymer matrix to aid in the transfer of the polymer matrix to the substrate .

It is to be understood that in any of the embodiments disclosed herein the substrate may be selected from any porous or non porous substrate. Some non limiting examples of non porous substrates include elastomeric materials e.g. polydimethylsiloxane PDMS semi conductive materials e.g. indium tin oxide ITO coated glass dielectric materials flexible materials e.g. polycarbonate films polyethylene films polyimide films polyester films and polyacrylate films . Non limiting examples of porous substrates include coated or uncoated paper.

In a colorant such as pigment particles present in the original composition becomes embedded and or entrapped in the resulting polymer matrix of the polymerized and or crosslinked hydrocarbon. The immobilized colorants will thus be retained on the substrate surface i.e. do not penetrate into the substrate which advantageously improves the print quality of the digital image on the print .

Furthermore in an example the thin hydrocarbon matrix formed via the method s disclosed herein has a thickness ranging from about 10 nm to about 10 m. In another example the thickness ranges from 100 nm to tens of microns.

Still further in the embodiments disclosed herein the polymerizing and or crosslinking of the hydrocarbon s may be controlled by the ambient environment within which the polymerizing and or crosslinking is accomplished. For example controlling polymerization and or crosslinking may be accomplished by exposing the printed composition e.g. ink layer to radiation at a wavelength ranging from about 100 nm to about 1500 nm such as e.g. ultraviolet radiation infrared radiation etc. and or exposing the composition to an elevated temperature e.g. from about 80 C. to about 120 C. . The UV radiation generally accompanies the corona discharge and produces additional reactive radicals that can initiate crosslinking polymerization. The elevated temperature may be used to accelerate the rate of crosslinking polymerization and or to reduce any activation barrier s .

In other instances polymeriziation and or crosslinking may be further controlled by incorporating a catalyst such as e.g. triethylaluminium TEA methylaluminoxane MAO etc. in the printing composition and then activating the catalyst upon polymerization. The catalyst may be incorporated in order to facilitate crosslinking polymerization from within the printed ink composition for example in areas that may not easily be reached by the reactive species.

To further illustrate embodiment s example s of the present disclosure the following examples are given herein. It is to be understood that these examples are provided for illustrative purposes and are not to be construed as limiting the scope of the disclosed embodiment s example s .

A sample of ink was prepared by dispersing 5 wt of a cyan pigment in Linseed oil available from Cargill Inc. Minnetonka Minn. with 0.5 wt of SOLSPERSE 13940 dispersant in a M 110Y microfluidizer for about 40 minutes. The ink was smeared onto an indium tin oxide ITO glass substrate and then placed on an adjustable stage underneath a 1.5 inch wire corona. In this set up the stage was adjusted so that the coated substrate was about 2 mm below the wire corona. The ink sample was exposed to corona discharge of 3.5 kV at a current of about 300 A in air for about 1 minute as shown in and then the ink sample was rinsed with ISOPAR L and isopropyl alcohol IPA to remove any unexposed ink as shown in .

A comparative sample was also prepared where such comparative sample included a cyan pigment suspended in a non polymerizable carrier. The formulation for the comparative sample was 5 wt of cyan pigment dispersed in ISOPAR L with 1 wt of SOLSPERSE 13940 dispersant in a M 100Y microfluidizer for about 30 minutes. The comparative ink sample was also smeared onto an ITO glass substrate and was exposed to corona discharge of 3.5 kV at a current of about 90 A in air for about 1 minute.

Highlighter smear fastness experiments were performed on both of the ink sample and the comparative sample where the results of these experiments are shown in for the ink sample while the results are shown in for the comparative sample. A highlighted was used to stroke each of the samples in a linear motion back and forth at a controlled stroke speed 2 cm sec and length 2 cm and the head of the highlighter followed the contours of the samples.

As shown in after 10 passes of the highlighter smear experiment no deterioration of the hydrocarbon matrix established on the substrate is evident. This is evidence of polymer formation of the ink on the substrate surface in the sample. However as shown in the comparative sample in inks formulated without a polymerizable carrier suffer from highlighter smearing.

The same ink sample as described for Example 1 was prepared in Example 2. In this example however the ink sample was exposed to corona discharge of 3.5 kV under 90 A of current in air for about 1 minute as shown in . After the ink sample was rinsed with ISOPAR L and IPA to remove any unexposed ink. After rinsing a polymer layer with pigments embedded therein is visible as shown in .

It is to be understood that the ranges provided herein include the stated range and any value or sub range within the stated range. For example an amount ranging from approximately 1 wt to about 20 wt should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited amount limits of 1 wt to about 20 wt but also to include individual amounts such as 2 wt 3 wt 4 wt etc. and sub ranges such as 5 wt to 15 wt 10 wt to 20 wt etc.

While several embodiments have been described in detail it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the disclosed embodiments may be modified. Therefore the foregoing description is to be considered exemplary rather than limiting.

