---

title: System and method using game condition reminders
abstract: Systems and methods for operating multiuser online games with game condition reminders. In particular implementations, a method includes accessing a game condition file from a memory wherein the game condition file includes one or more game condition identifiers corresponding to one or more game conditions for a user of a game, determining the value of the one or more game condition identifiers, presenting a reminder for the one or more game conditions based on the determined value for the one or more corresponding game condition identifiers, presenting a user response interface for receiving a user response related to whether the user has changed the one or more game conditions, and updating the one or more game condition identifiers in the game condition file based on the user's response.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09028310&OS=09028310&RS=09028310
owner: Zynga Inc.
number: 09028310
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100512
---
The application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 247 392 entitled System and Method for Using Game Condition Reminders filed 30 Sep. 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety and for all purposes.

The present disclosure generally relates to use and distribution of digital media objects over computer networks and more specifically to generating game related reminders based on conditions.

Computer games are very popular and have been around for a while. Recently embedding multiplayer online games into large scale social networks or other application programming interfaces APIs has increased in popularity and has proved to be an effective mechanism for popularizing online games.

For example the social networking website Facebook.com has provided an infrastructure in which game developers can build multi player online games for users to play from within the social network. However social networking websites may place limits on the degree of control an online game can have over other aspects of the social network. For example a particular social network may not permit game developers to design games that allow the user to bookmark the game in the user s social network account through the game itself. Therefore a need exists for a system and method that allows game developers to guide direct influence and instruct desired user behavior from within the game without actually forwarding commands to the social network or API from within the game itself. In certain embodiments such desired user behavior may be directed towards increasing the accessibility and or popularity of the game in an online community.

In accordance with the present disclosure a system and method using game condition reminders is provided which substantially eliminates or reduces disadvantages and problems associated with previous systems and methods.

In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure a method includes accessing a game condition file from a memory wherein the game condition file includes one or more game condition identifiers corresponding to one or more game conditions for a user of a game determining the value of the one or more game condition identifiers presenting a reminder for the one or more game conditions based on the determined value for the one or more corresponding game condition identifiers presenting a user response interface for receiving a user response related to whether the user has changed the one or more game conditions and updating the one or more game condition identifiers in the game condition file based on the user s response.

More specifically the method may also include sending the game condition file for storage in the memory the reminder including instructions for changing one or more game conditions and or one or more game incentives for changing the game conditions updating the one or more game condition identifiers in the game condition file based on whether the corresponding game condition has actually changed and or accessing user account information of the user in a social network to determine whether the user has performed an action in the social network associated with the game where the user account information may be hosted on a remote networking system. The reminder may also be embodied in a dialog box or a progress bar.

The following embodiments are described and illustrated with apparatuses methods systems and software which are meant to be examples and illustrative not limiting in scope. For example the network environment described below is provided only to illustrate how a particular implementation of the present disclosure might be employed.

Embodiments of the present disclosure are directed toward systems and methods for operating multiplayer online games with reminder dialogs using persistent game condition files to remind users to take certain actions settings or game conditions internal and external to the multiplayer online game. Such reminders dialogs can be used to encourage remind or nudge user behavior. By intermittently or systematically presenting users with a reminder dialog including instructions or diagrams on how to accomplish the desired action or user behavior game and application developers can guide the behavior of their users to promote product loyalty return business increased spending enrichment of gameplay and enhanced experience thereby increasing the popularity and profitability of the game. In general reminders are designed to provoke user behavior that a game or application developer may wish to encourage.

Reminders may be used to suggest a variety of desired actions by users of a game. For example a reminder may direct a user to bookmark become a fan or vote for a game within the context of a social network. Reminders may also request users to invite friends to join a game or participate in some aspect of the game such as obtaining ingredients for a dish or tasting a prepared dish. Other reminders may remind users to add neighbors or employees or to assist other users as needed within the game. Reminders may be presented in the form of a progress bar to track completion of game related tasks such as providing an email address adding a bookmark becoming a fan and granting publishing permissions. Another reminder may be presented upon game startup to disclose game related items such as tips gifts and game currency which may encourage further user activity. Other reminders may seek a user s email address to provide direct email reminders. Still other reminders may seek publishing permissions to post activities of a user directly to a social network. Activities that might be posted to a social network include reaching a particular milestone or game level or making a specific achievement within the context of a game. While various example reminders have been disclosed it should be understood that various embodiments of the present disclosure may provide reminders for any variety or number of desired user actions. The description and figures provided herein disclose a system and method for generating reminders based on game conditions.

In the illustrated embodiment system comprises a number of interconnected elements that operate together to facilitate the operation of a multiuser game including multiple players client systems network and various servers and .

As shown multiple players represent individual users that may access a multiuser game available from a multiuser game server or using client systems over network . For example multiple players may be individual players of an online game such as Zynga CafeWorld or Farmville. Multiple players may also be players of more than one multiuser game. Further multiple players may use one or more client systems to gain access to multiuser games residing on remote servers accessible through a network infrastructure.

Client systems represent any suitable hardware and controlling logic and or software encoded on non transitory computer readable media for enabling multiple players to access network and play a multiuser game. Client systems may include a personal computer a smart phone a mobile phone a net book a handheld gaming device or any other suitable device and or software encoded on non transitory computer readable media for accessing network . Client systems operating in some embodiments of the present disclosure may support downloading and storing game data from various servers. Such game data may in turn include information that enables various levels of offline gameplay.

The illustrated embodiment shows system as including a network . Network represents communications equipment including hardware and any appropriate controlling logic stored on non transitory computer readable media for interconnecting elements of system and facilitating communication between these elements. Communications network may include local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs any other public or private network local regional or global communication network enterprise intranet other suitable wireline or wireless communication link or any combination thereof. Network may include any combination of gateways routers hubs switches access points base stations and any other hardware software or a combination thereof that may implement any suitable protocol.

As illustrated system may include one more servers coupled to network such as first social network servers second social network server first multiuser game server and second multiuser game server . Social network servers and represent a suitable combination of hardware software encoded on non transitory computer readable media and appropriate controlling logic for hosting a social networking interface. In some embodiments first and second social network servers and may include an internal multiuser game server. For example social network server may represent FACEBOOK MYSPACE or some other social networking site.

On the other hand multiuser game servers and represent any suitable combination of hardware software encoded on non transitory computer readable media and appropriate controlling logic for hosting a multiuser game. In some embodiments multiuser game servers may load a game from a non transitory computer readable medium for execution. Each multiuser game server in system may include a game engine for any and all multiuser games that it hosts or operates. Further multiuser game servers may be configured to access social graphs for players stored on social network servers and . Similarly some embodiments may support multiuser game server and to access social graphs for players stored on the other. In some embodiments multiuser game servers or may also include an internal multiuser gamer server. Multiuser game servers and may for example host games such as Zynga CafeWorld Farmville MafiaWars or other multiplayer games.

The various elements of example system may operate together to implement one or more aspects of the present disclosure. For example players may use one or more client system to access a first multiuser game server using network . Alternatively players may instead initially access first social network using client systems over network . Next players may be presented with a social networking interface like those provided by FACEBOOK or MYSPACE. In turn the social networking interface may facilitate subsequent access to one or more multiuser game servers such as multiuser game server or . For instance access to one or more multiuser game servers through a social network server may be facilitated through a portal hyperlink or other interface for providing access to multiuser game servers. Regardless of the way in which multiuser game servers or are accessed once access is granted players may be presented with a gaming interface comprising video sound text and or other multimedia. Using client systems players may access and send and receive data from social network servers and and multiuser game servers and over network . Some embodiments may facilitate the download and storing of game logic and game state data from various servers to enable various operations including but not limited to offline gaming.

At the time a game is invoked or at any other later point in time after the game is operational a game condition file may be loaded into a non transitory computer readable medium. A game condition file could be a file stored on a non transitory computer readable medium that comprises one or more game condition identifiers or indicators. The game condition file may originate from a server such as multiuser game server or . For example client systems may load a game condition file corresponding to a game by accessing multiuser game server or over network . The game condition file could reside locally such as on client systems or may be available remotely over network from for instance multiuser game server or . The game condition file may be loaded automatically on game initialization or on the occurrence of some other event. Other embodiments may however load the game condition file randomly semi randomly or on some predetermined time interval. Once the game condition file is loaded the game is operable to determine the value of one or more game condition identifiers or indicators located therein. This determination may be performed either on client systems or on one or more servers such as game server and or social network server and . Based on this determination players may be presented with a reminder dialog on client systems . The reminder dialog may have instructions and or diagrams for changing the game condition. Further the reminder dialog may have a user response interface to enable players to enter a user response corresponding to one or more game conditions. Changes to the game condition can be made to the associated game condition identifier or indicator in a game condition file based in part on the user response by players through the user response interface. Once the game condition file is updated it can be saved to a non transitory computer readable medium for later use. Such later use may include but is not limited to determining whether to present a subsequent reminder according to the teachings of the present disclosure. Thus as illustrated elements of system may coordinate and communicate with one another to provide reminders for game conditions based on a game condition file.

The game condition file may include identifiers or indicators for various game conditions for the corresponding game or the social network. For example a particular game condition state or status may indicate whether a player has bookmarked the particular game within his or her social network account. If the player has bookmarked the game then the game condition file would reflect this game condition by for example designating a value of TRUE for the corresponding identifier or indicator of the game condition. Similarly if the player has not bookmarked the game then the game condition file would similarly reflect this game condition by for example designating a value of FALSE for the corresponding identifier or indicator for the game condition. Thus when a particular game or the game server loads the game condition file in step the game or the game server can check for game conditions with a particular designation or state such as a FALSE value.

Next for each game condition with the particular designation or state such as FALSE the game or game server may determine whether to present a reminder dialog to the user to remind and or instruct the user how to change the game condition. For example if game condition file contains the aforementioned bookmark condition and it is designated as FALSE then the game can determine whether to present the user with a reminder dialog with a reminder and or instructions to bookmark the game in his social network account. Reminders may include any combination of text sound video or any other suitable media for raising awareness to the user of a particular game condition. In some embodiments the determination of whether to present the user with a reminder dialog may be random semi random or determined by some algorithm based on behavioral modification or other models. In other embodiments the determination may be made by maintaining a counter that is advanced each time the condition file is read. In such embodiments the reminder dialog may be presented to the user once the counter reaches a predetermined value or a multiple of a predetermined value. For example a dialog box may be presented to the user each time the counter associated with the bookmark condition reaches a multiple of five and the bookmark condition remains designated as FALSE. In other words the dialog box will remind the user to bookmark the game once every five times the game condition file is read until finally the bookmark condition is designated as TRUE. 

As mentioned an exemplary reminder dialog for changing a particular condition may present to the user with instructions for changing the condition in addition to presenting the reminder itself. Instructions for changing a particular condition can include text diagrams illustrations screenshots or other suitable media for describing the steps necessary to alter the associated game condition using either the client computer or commands sent from the client computer to a game server or social network server. For example the reminder dialog to bookmark the game may include instructions in the form of illustrative images of the steps necessary to bookmark the game through a web browser connected to the appropriate interface presented by social network server or .

After receiving a reminder and acting on it players may use a response button or other suitable response interface to indicate that the user has already performed the desired user action indicated by the reminder. In particular the game or game server may present the response buttons or other suitable response interface as part of the reminder dialog presented to players . The response interface provides a way for a particular player to indicate whether he has changed the game condition by performing the indicated action or steps. Thus as illustrated process flow ends in step where players may use the reminder dialog interface to indicate that a specific game condition has been changed. In addition the associated game or game server may update the game condition to reflect this change. Still further the game servers or may access the social network servers or to determine whether the user has made a requested change. For example many social network servers or provide APIs allowing authorized third party applications to access account information of its users. In such an implementation game servers or may determine whether a user has bookmarked or fanned a particular game and or allowed access to the game or a subset of restricted functions such as the ability to post messages to the user s profile page or generate activity elements to be shared with other users. As described in step this may involve updating a game condition from a designation of FALSE to TRUE. After updates are made to one or more game conditions the game condition file containing the one or more game conditions may be saved on client systems and or on one or more servers such as social network servers or or multiuser game server or .

Thus for example some embodiments envisioned by the present disclosure might present a dialog box that asks Have you bookmarked the game In addition the dialog box may list instructions for bookmarking the game along with user selectable response buttons for answering the question by indicating YES or NO. If the user selects NO then the game condition identifier designating the game condition as FALSE would not be changed. In that case the game condition file is either left untouched or saved as it was originally read. However if the user selects YES then the game can update the game condition flag for the game condition from FALSE to TRUE within the game condition file. The now updated game condition file can then be saved for the next time a game condition file is retrieved by the game. When the game condition file is subsequently accessed the system will recognize that the game condition is designated as TRUE in the game condition file. As a result the game may decide for example not to issue any further reminders.

Regardless of when game loads the game condition file once loaded game can determine the state of a game condition by accessing the corresponding game condition identifier or indicator. In other words game may read a game condition identifier or indicator to determine whether to present a corresponding reminder dialog . Game may decide to present the user with a reminder dialog because for example the game condition is in a state indicating that the game condition has not been satisfied e.g. FALSE or 0 . Not only can game present the reminder dialog but it may also display appropriate instructions for changing the condition. As discussed the reminder dialog may also include a response interface such as clickable buttons for receiving a user response. The user response could indicate whether the user of game has changed the relevant game condition. Depending on the design of the social network interface and social network information the game may be able to verify whether the user has indeed performed desired activity corresponding to the game condition. So for example in an embodiment having a social network interface and or social network information that facilitates verification of user actions a game would be able to determine whether a user has bookmarked the game invited others to play the game become a fan of the game or some other desired action associated with the game and the social network. To facilitate verification of user activity embodiments of the present disclosure may access user account information for the user in a social network to determine whether the user has performed an action in the social network associated with the game. In certain embodiments relevant user account information may be hosted on a remote social networking system such as social network server or .

In those embodiments that support user activity verification a user might still indicate whether he has performed the desired action by for instance clicking YES or NO. Then depending on game design game may or may not change the game condition identifier or indicator in the game condition file. Thus game can determine whether to display a reminder dialog again based on the received user response and whether the user actually changed the game condition. Such functionality may be used to further encourage the user to actually change the game condition by performing the desired action. So for example a user might be presented with a subsequent reminder dialog to add a bookmark for game within their social network interface even though the user has already indicated that he has bookmarked game in a previous user response while not actually doing so. In other embodiments that do not facilitate game condition verification a user may similarly use to the response interface to indicate that he has performed an action even though he has not actually changed the game condition. Such embodiments may update the game condition file to reflect that the game condition has been changed and consequently the user may no longer receive reminder dialogs for that condition.

As illustrated computer system represents a collection of hardware software and control logic for implementing aspects of the present disclosure. For example client systems social network servers and and or multiuser game servers and may be embodied in a computer system like computer system . As shown computer system may include a display computer a keyboard a graphical input device a user input device computer interfaces and other appropriate components.

Display represents any interface for displaying content in a human readable format to the user. For example in some embodiments display may be embodied as a cathode ray tube CRT display a liquid crystal display LCD device a plasma display a direct projection or rear projection digital light processing DLP display a microdisplay or the like. In various embodiments display may be used to display user interfaces and rendered images.

Graphical input device represents any user interface that facilitates data entry or otherwise permits users to interact with computer system as information is displayed on display . Graphical input device may be embodied in a computer mouse a trackball a track pad a joystick wireless remote drawing tablet voice command system eye tracking system and the like. Graphical input device may support selecting objects icons text and the like via a user command such as a click of a button or pressing a key on the keyboard or the like. Some embodiments may incorporate the use of a specialized user input device . User input device may include a number of image capturing devices or image capturing systems. In other embodiments user input device may include additional computer system displays e.g. multiple monitors . Further user input device may be implemented as one or more graphical user interfaces on such displays or on display .

Network interfaces represents any computer interface operable to connect to other components of the present disclosure or other computer systems or networks. For example network interfaces may include an Ethernet card a wireless interface a modem telephone satellite cable ISDN asynchronous digital subscriber line DSL unit FireWire interface USB interface and the like. For example network interfaces may be coupled to a computer network to a FireWire bus or the like. In other embodiments network interfaces may be physically integrated on the motherboard of computer may be a software program such as soft DSL or the like.

Random Access Memory RAM and disk drive represent exemplary forms of non transitory computer readable media configured to store instructions or data. RAM and disk drive may store objects game logic executable code software control logic descriptor files game condition files application programming interfaces a rendering engine social networking profiles and the like. Non transitory computer readable media may include volatile and nonvolatile magnetic storage media such as floppy disks networked hard disks or removable hard disks optical storage media such as CD ROMS DVDs holographic memories or bar codes semiconductor media such as flash memories read only memories ROMS battery backed volatile memories networked storage devices and the like.

Computer of computer system represents a set of computer components such as a processor and memory storage devices such as a random access memory RAM disk drives and system bus interconnecting these various components. Computer may be a stand alone system or may work in conjunction with other components of system to implement various aspects of the present disclosure. In some embodiments computer includes one or more Xeon microprocessors from Intel. Further computer may include a UNIX based or other suitable operating system.

Computer system may also include software that enables communications over a network such as the HTTP TCP IP RTP RTSP protocols and the like. Other embodiments may include alternate or other communications software and transfer protocols for example IPX UDP or the like as appropriate. Some embodiments of computer system may include a graphical processor unit GPU to accelerate various operations including color grading automatically performing a gamut remapping or the like.

As illustrated the user has already completed requested task by installing the game. Progress bar indicates completion of requested task by shading the corresponding portion of the task bar indicating that twenty percent of all the requested tasks are complete and complimenting the user on completing the requested task . Requested tasks represent uncompleted requested tasks. For example requested task seeks to remind a user to join a monthly email list and requests that the user supply their email address. As shown for requested task progress bar may encourage user action by providing an incentive such as awarding five thousand coins for completing the uncompleted requested task of providing an email address. As another example requested task reminds and encourages a user to add a bookmark to a game within a social network. Similarly requested task suggests that a user become a fan of the game within the social network and get exclusive offers. The final requested task in progress bar shown as requested task seeks permission from a user for a game to publish game related events to a social network. Once each of these requested tasks are completed progress bar is updated to reflect the change and further encourage the completion of any remaining uncompleted tasks.

While the various figures illustrate certain embodiments as including specific components it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using any suitable arrangement and collection of components to practice the teachings of the present disclosure. Likewise although the present disclosure describes several embodiments it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

