---

title: Suggesting access permission changes to lock a website
abstract: Methods of the present inventions allow for suggesting access permission changes to lock a website. An exemplary method may comprise the steps of scanning a website's root file directory, determining whether folders, files, databases, or database tables in the root directory are static, and transmitting a recommendation to change permissions to “read-only” for each folder, file, database, or database table determined to be static.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08453215&OS=08453215&RS=08453215
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 08453215
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101025
---
This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 911 049 entitled TOOLS FOR LOCKING A WEBSITE concurrently filed herewith and also assigned to Go Daddy Operating Company LLC.

This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 911 056 entitled METHODS OF LOCKING A WEBSITE concurrently filed herewith and also assigned to Go Daddy Operating Company LLC.

The present inventions generally relate to website hosting and more particularly tools and methods for locking a website.

An example embodiment of a system for locking a website may comprise a server communicatively coupled to a network wherein the server hosts a website and stores the website s files in one or more folders or directories. It also may comprise a website management server also communicatively coupled to the network hosting a control panel website configured to receive a request to lock the website and responsive to the request change access permissions for the website s files to read only. 

An example embodiment of a method of locking a website may comprise the steps of hosting a website receiving a request to lock the website and responsive to the request changing access permissions to read only for a directory folder file database or database table rendering the website functional.

An example embodiment of a method for suggesting access permission changes to lock a website may comprise the steps of scanning a website s root file directory determining whether folders files databases or database tables in the root directory are static and transmitting a recommendation to change access permissions to read only for each folder file database or database table determined to be static.

The above features and advantages of the present inventions will be better understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present inventions will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the inventions and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present inventions may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines structures and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present inventions. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers e.g. website owners or operators place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as webpages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related webpages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding webpages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

Prevalent on the Web are multimedia websites some of which may offer and sell goods and services to individuals and organizations. Websites may consist of a single webpage but typically consist of multiple interconnected and related webpages. Menus and links may be used to move between different webpages within the website or to move to a different website as is known in the art. The interconnectivity of webpages enabled by the Internet can make it difficult for Internet users to tell where one website ends and another begins. Websites may be created using HyperText Markup Language HTML to generate a standard set of tags that define how the webpages for the website are to be displayed. Such websites may comprise a collection of HTML and subordinate documents i.e. files stored on the Web that are typically accessible from the same Uniform Resource Locator URL and reside on the same server although such files may be distributed in numerous servers.

Users of the Internet may access content providers websites using software known as an Internet browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX. After the browser has located the desired webpage it requests and receives information from the webpage typically in the form of an HTML document and then displays the webpage content for the user. The user then may view other webpages at the same website or move to an entirely different website using the browser.

Browsers are able to locate specific websites because each website resource and computer on the Internet has a unique Internet Protocol IP address. Presently there are two standards for IP addresses. The older IP address standard often called IP Version 4 IPv4 is a 32 bit binary number which is typically shown in dotted decimal notation where four 8 bit bytes are separated by a dot from each other e.g. 64.202.167.32 . The notation is used to improve human readability. The newer IP address standard often called IP Version 6 IPv6 or Next Generation Internet Protocol IPng is a 128 bit binary number. The standard human readable notation for IPv6 addresses presents the address as eight 16 bit hexadecimal words each separated by a colon e.g. 2EDC BA98 0332 0000 CF8A 000C 2154 7313 .

IP addresses however even in human readable notation are difficult for people to remember and use. A URL is much easier to remember and may be used to point to any computer directory or file on the Internet. A browser is able to access a website on the Internet through the use of a URL. The URL may include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request combined with the website s Internet address also known as the website s domain. An example of a URL with a HTTP request and domain is http www.companyname.com. In this example the http identifies the URL as a HTTP request and the companyname.com is the domain.

Domains are much easier to remember and use than their corresponding IP addresses. The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ICANN approves some Generic Top Level Domains gTLD and delegates the administrative responsibility to a particular organization a registry for maintaining an authoritative source for the registered domains within a TLD and their corresponding IP addresses. Such a registry may comprise any registry or other entity under contract or other agreement with ICANN to administer one or more TLDs a registry operator that may comprise any entity sub contracted with the registry to administer the TLD on behalf of the registry and make the TLD available to registrars for registration and or any agent operating on behalf of a registry to carry out the registries contractual obligations with ICANN. For certain TLDs e.g. .biz .info .name and .org the registry is also the authoritative source for contact information related to the domain and is referred to as a thick registry. For other TLDs e.g. .com and .net only the domain registrar identification and name server information is stored within the registry and a registrar is the authoritative source for the contact information related to the domain. Such registries are referred to as thin registries. Most gTLDs are organized through a central domain Shared Registration System SRS based on their TLD.

The process for registering a domain with .com .net .org or other TLDs allows an Internet user to use an ICANN accredited registrar to register their domain. For example if an Internet user John Doe wishes to register the domain mycompany.com John Doe may initially determine whether the desired domain is available by contacting a domain registrar. The Internet user may make this contact using the registrar s website and typing the desired domain into a field on the registrar s webpage created for this purpose.

Upon receiving the request from the Internet user the registrar may ascertain whether mycompany.com has already been registered by checking the SRS database associated with the TLD of the domain. The results of the search then may be displayed on the registrar s website to thereby notify the Internet user of the availability of the domain. If the domain is available the Internet user may proceed with the registration process. If the domain is not available for registration the Internet user may keep selecting alternative domains until an available domain is found. When a domain is registered the registrar may pay a registration fee to the registry responsible for administering the TLD used by the registered domain. Continuing with the previous paragraph s example upon registration of the domain mycompany.com although the registrar may have collected a fee from the domain registrant it also may have paid the registry the appropriate registration fee for the allocated .com TLD.

Websites unless extremely large and complex or have unusual traffic demands typically reside on a single server and are prepared and maintained by a single individual or entity. Some Internet users typically those that are larger and more sophisticated may provide their own hardware software and connections to the Internet. But many Internet users either do not have the resources available or do not want to create and maintain the infrastructure necessary to host their own websites. To assist such individuals or entities hosting companies exist that offer website hosting services. These hosting service providers typically provide the hardware software and electronic communication means necessary to connect multiple websites to the Internet. A single hosting service provider may literally host thousands of websites on one or more hosting servers.

Hosting providers often sell website hosting services based upon the content provider s anticipated memory and bandwidth needs. For example a content provider may pay a lower monthly fee for 100 gigabytes GB of server disk space and 1000 GB of bandwidth than another content provider whose website may require 500 GB and 5000 GB of server disk space and bandwidth respectively. Content providers must carefully evaluate their website s anticipated storage and bandwidth needs and select their hosting plan accordingly.

Content providers also need to design their websites with security in mind. If not properly designed the files and or databases that provide the website s functionality may be hacked and perhaps altered or even overtaken by unscrupulous or malicious Internet users. For example some interactive websites may be configured perhaps by having File Transfer Protocol FTP or Web search functionality to allow users to upload data or files e.g. photographs videos documents search strings etc. to the website its directories or databases thereby exposing the website backend to Internet users.

Such security vulnerabilities may be exploited by many known hacking techniques including SQL injection Remote File Inclusion RFI Local File Inclusion LFI or Cross Site Scripting XSS . These and other similar hacking techniques may cause the uploading of unwanted and potentially malicious files and or result in the corruption of the files or databases that provide the website s functionality perhaps rendering the website inoperable. Websites also may be corrupted inadvertently or intentionally by a content provider s family friends or co workers who have access to the website s files.

Applicant has determined that presently existing website hosting systems and methods do not provide optimal means for protecting against such website corruption. Specifically there is a need for the systems methods and other tools for locking a website including the files directories folders databases and or database tables that render the website functional as described herein.

The example embodiments illustrated herein place no limitation on network configuration or connectivity. Thus as non limiting examples the network could comprise the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks wireless networks or any combination thereof.

Servers and or any other server described herein may be communicatively coupled to the network via any method of network connection known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to wired wireless modem dial up satellite cable modem Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscribers Line ASDL Virtual

Private Network VPN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN X.25 Ethernet token ring Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Infrared Data Association IrDA wireless WAN technologies T1 Frame Relay Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE and or any combination thereof. As non limiting examples the servers could be application communication mail database proxy fax file media web peer to peer standalone software or hardware servers i.e. server computers and may use any server format known in the art or developed in the future possibly a shared hosting server a virtual dedicated hosting server a dedicated hosting server or any combination thereof .

The website may comprise any collection of data and or files accessible to a client or server communicatively coupled to the network . As a non limiting example the website may comprise a single webpage or multiple interconnected and related webpages resolving from a domain name each of which may provide access to static dynamic multimedia or any other content perhaps by accessing files e.g. text audio video graphics executable HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML Active Server Pages ASP Hypertext Preprocessor PHP Flash files server side scripting etc. that enable the website to display when rendered by a browser on a client.

Such files may be stored in any data storage medium capable of storing data or instructions for access and or execution by a computing device such as a server or client computer. Such data storage may comprise as non limiting examples magnetic optical semiconductor paper or any other data storage media a database or other network storage device hard disk drives portable disks CD ROM DVD RAM ROM flash memory and or holographic data storage perhaps in a network storage device communicatively coupled to the network such as a hard drive or other memory on a server .

Stored files may be organized in a server s filesystem which may organize the files for the storage organization manipulation and retrieval by the server s operating system. As illustrated in the server s filesystem may comprise at least one directory which in turn may comprise at least one folder in which files may be stored. In most operating systems files may be stored in a root directory sub directories folders or sub folders within the filesystem.

Most filesystems have systems and methods of administering access permissions or access rights to specific users and or groups of users. Such systems control the ability of users to view edit add to delete or otherwise make changes to files in the directories and or folders of the filesystem. There are numerous different access permission types that may apply to directories folders or files . For example the read permission may grant a user the ability to read a file . The write permission may grant the ability to modify a file . The modify permission may grant the ability to read write to and delete files . The read and execute permission may grant the ability to execute a file . The full control permission may enable a user to read write to change and delete files and folders . Depending on the server s operating system and filesystem other access permission conventions may be used e.g. write read execute update delete or drop but they all generally control who may read run modify or delete files stored on the server .

As explained above if not properly designed the website s files may be accessed and perhaps modified or deleted by unscrupulous or malicious Internet users. For example an interactive website may be configured perhaps by having FTP functionality to allow users to upload data or files e.g. photographs videos documents search strings etc. to the website e.g. its directory or folders . If any of the website s directories folders or files have permissions set to allow access e.g. a write modify or full control permission it is possible that users may hack the website by modifying deleting or uploading files to the directory perhaps using the hacking techniques described above.

To mitigate this risk the illustrated embodiment also may comprise a specially configured control panel website hosted on at least one website management server . The control panel website may comprise a web based interface perhaps provided by the website s hosting provider that provides tools allowing a website owner operator or content provider to manage the website and or other hosted services such as databases or email accounts. Commonly available control panel functionality may include providing access to server logs details of available and used storage and bandwidth website visitor statistics email account configuration online file storage configuration FTP management etc.

The control panel website illustrated in additionally may be configured to receive a request to lock the website and perhaps responsive to receiving the request to lock change an access permission to a read only status for the server s directory ies folder s or file s . As a non limiting example the control panel website may be configured to receive a request to lock the website by displaying an interactive webpage enabling a website owner or operator to make a lock website request. For example software and or scripts running on the website management server may cause a webpage to render in a browser on a client wherein the webpage may have a lock website button or a functionally similar interface element e.g. drop down box click box etc. . The control panel website may be access protected e.g. password protected single sign on protected etc. to ensure that only authorized personnel may lock the website .

The website management server then may receive a HTTP request perhaps generated by the control panel website indicating that a lock request has been made. Alternatively the lock request may be received as any communication transmitting a request to lock a website perhaps via an electronic communication received at the website management server including but not limited to electronic requests such as a FTP transmission an email message a Short Message Service SMS message i.e. text message Multimedia Messaging Service MMS message or other instant message.

Responsive to receiving the lock website request the control panel website perhaps via software and or scripts running on the website management server may automatically change the access permission for directory ies folder s or file s on the server hosting the website to read only thus disabling other Internet users from deleting modifying or uploading files in or to the directory or its folders .

The website management server hosting the control panel website may change such access permissions as a non limiting example by transmitting a HTTP request to the server . Perhaps after successfully authenticating the requesting entity s e.g. the website owner or operator s credentials the server may set access permissions to all or some of the website s files folders and or directories to a read only status. Files stored on a server running a Linux based operating system may be locked e.g. rendered immutable via the chattr command a Linux command that renders changes to certain attributes on a file residing in the server s filesystem . Among other things the chattr command may make files immutable so that for example password files and or certain system files cannot be erased.

As illustrated in a possible embodiment also may comprise in addition to the features illustrated in a database running on the server . The database may store data perhaps via database tables database relations or structured files which may provide additional functionality to the website perhaps by being accessed by scripting e.g. PHP or ASP or other executable files running on the server . Database tables may comprise any set of organized data elements i.e. values perhaps organized using a model of vertical columns and horizontal rows. As non limiting examples a database storing or accessing such data may comprise a local database online database desktop database server side database relational database hierarchical database network database object database object relational database associative database concept oriented database entity attribute value database multi dimensional database semi structured database star schema database XML database file collection of files spreadsheet or other means of data storage located on a computer client server or any other storage device known in the art or developed in the future.

In this illustrated embodiment the control panel website may be configured to perhaps responsive to receiving a request to lock the website change an access permission to a read only status for a database and or database table . As with the directories folders or files described above databases and database tables may have access permission settings that may be changed perhaps by receiving a write lock command locking the database to prevent any other access to it or a read lock command locking the database to prevent updates but allowing concurrent queries .

Any method or command for locking a database or database table may be implemented by the control panel website including but not limited to transmitting a command for the following lock types read only allowing any other read or write transactions except a blocking transaction on the table read key does not allow other transactions to change primary key values in the table read data does not allow any write transactions to the table write data does not modify existing primary key values in the database write key modifying existing primary key values in the database and or write blocking does not allow any other read or write transactions on the table .

Such locking commands may be transmitted by the control panel website via any electronic communication means known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to transmitting an HTTP request to a server running the database . As illustrated in the control panel website may be accessed by a user perhaps the registrant of the domain name from which the website resolves via a browser on a client . Clients that may be used to connect to the network include but are not limited to a desktop computer a laptop computer a hand held computer a terminal a television a television set top box a cellular phone a wireless phone a wireless hand held device an Internet access device a rich client thin client or any other client functional with a client server computing architecture.

In addition to the automated website locking systems described above the control panel website also may be configured to enable website owners or operators perhaps the website s domain name registrant to manually configure directory folder file database or database table access permissions. As a non limiting example the control panel website may provide e.g. render in a browser a registrant with list of all of the website s directories folders files databases or database tables with an option e.g. check box or drop down menu to select the access permissions for each.

The control panel website also may be configured perhaps via a check box or drop down menu rendered in a browser to enable the registrant to enable and or disable file transfer to the website by all file upload methods or protocols including but not limited to via FTP file transfer protocol secure secure copy protocol or secure shell network protocol. Once such settings are received by the control panel website it may set all such permissions and settings according to the registrant s selections perhaps by transmitting a request with such settings via HTTP protocol to the server .

The computer readable media may comprise any data storage medium capable of storing instructions for execution by a computing device. It may comprise as non limiting examples magnetic optical semiconductor paper or any other data storage media a database or other network storage device hard disk drives portable disks CD ROM DVD RAM ROM flash memory and or holographic data storage. The instructions may as non limiting examples comprise software and or scripts stored in the computer readable media that may be stored locally in the website management server or alternatively in a highly distributed format in a plurality of computer readable media accessible via the network perhaps via a grid or cloud computing environment.

As a non limiting example the steps all methods described in this patent application may be performed by any central processing unit CPU in any computing system such as a microprocessor running on one or more servers and executing instructions stored perhaps as scripts and or software in computer readable media accessible to the CPU or microprocessor such as a hard disk drive on a server which may be communicatively coupled to a network e.g. the Internet . Such software and or scripts may comprise server side software and or client side software.

The website may be hosted Step by any system or method known in the art or developed in the future for website hosting including but not limited to storing the website s files databases and or database tables on a server communicatively coupled to a network perhaps for access by a client running a browser configured to render the website on the client s display. As non limiting examples the website may be hosted on the website owner or operator s computer or server or alternatively by a hosting provider as described in detail above.

A request to lock the website may be received Step by any method of receiving a request known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to receiving an electronic communication a telephone communication an in person communication or a written communication. As a non limiting example a control panel website hosted on a website management server may be configured e.g. programmed to receive a request to lock a domain name registrant s website Step perhaps by displaying a virtual button entitled lock website that when clicked by the registrant transmits a request via HTTP protocol that is received by the website management server . In response the website management server then may transmit the request to lock to the server hosting the website via any of the above described data or request transmission protocols.

Responsive to receiving the request to lock the server may change permissions to a read only status for the directories folders files databases and or database tables that provide website functionality Step . Such permissions may be changed as described in detail above. Permissions may be changed in any manner necessary to reduce access e.g. by user or by file . Accordingly permissions may be changed to read only or alternatively write update drop or delete permissions may be revoked.

Prior to changing permissions Step however the control panel website e.g. software and or scripts running on the website management server or the server may save the original access permission settings Step . As a non limiting example the original settings may be stored in a file perhaps on the website hosting server the website management server a client or any other network storage device communicatively coupled to the network . Permissions may then be changed Step as described in detail above. However upon expiration of the requested time period the changed access permissions may be reset to the original settings Step perhaps by the control panel website accessing the stored settings and transmitting them to the website s hosting server which may reset permissions accordingly.

The method embodiment illustrated in builds upon that shown in . In this example embodiment the website lock request received in Step may include a period of time for which the website owner or operator e.g. registrant desires to lock the website Step . Prior to changing permissions Step however the control panel website e.g. software and or scripts running on the website management server or the server may save the original access permission settings Step . Permissions may then be changed Step as described in detail above. However upon expiration of the requested time period the changed access permissions may be reset to the original settings Step .

The above described methods or any step of such methods also may be performed by an application programming interface API running on at least one server communicatively coupled to a network . The API may comprise computer readable code that when executed by at least one server causes the API to perform each method step. The API may comprise a software to software interface that specifies the protocol defining how independent computer programs interact or communicate with each other. As a non limiting example the API may allow the website s hosting server to receive commands to lock the website perhaps over the network through a series of function calls requests for services . The API may comprise any API type known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to request style Berkeley Sockets Transport Layer Interface TLI 

Representational State Transfer REST SOAP Remote Procedure Calls RPC Standard Query Language SQL file transfer message delivery and or any combination thereof.

An operating principle behind this illustrated embodiment is that the directories folders files databases or database tables that provide the most functionality or interactivity for a website i.e. are dynamic should retain access permission settings that continue to allow the website to function properly. Thus only directories folders files databases or database tables that are determined to be static Step should be locked i.e. changed to a read only access permission .

Accordingly a wizard perhaps software and or scripts running on a server web server database server website management server and or client and accessible via a control panel website may be configured e.g. programmed with instructions to perform periodic scans of the website s root directory or other networked storage to determine which directories folders files databases or database tables appear to grow and or which folders tend to gather more temporary files . Those that grow may be flagged as dynamic while those that do not grow or grow less than others may be flagged as static.

For example as illustrated in such software may determine a change in size over a predetermined timeframe of such directories folders files databases and or database tables Step . As a non limiting example this step may be accomplished by determining a file s size at two or more points in time and calculating the change in file size over time. Each of those determined to have a change in size below a predetermined value e.g. a percentage change in size an absolute size or any other size parameter then may be flagged as static Step perhaps in metadata associated with the file or in a separate file or database.

Once static directories folders files databases or database tables are identified as static Step software may transmit a suggestion perhaps to the website owner or operator as to which of those to lock down based upon the least amount of change in size Step . The suggestion may be transmitted via any means or method transmitting an electronic message known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to an HTTP request transmission a FTP transmission an email message a SMS message i.e. text message a MMS message or any other electronic message or communication. The website owner or operator receiving the suggestion may then opt to change access permissions perhaps via a control panel website accordingly.

After registering a domain name with a domain name registrar a registrant may develop a website and pay a hosting provider to host the website Step on the hosting provider s hosting servers which are communicatively coupled to the Internet. As a non limiting example the domain name registrar and hosting provider may be a single service provider such as GODADDY.COM. The website may comprise a plurality of files stored in a folder in a directory in the server s filesystem. The website also may provide functionality by accessing a database also running on the server .

A software wizard running on the hosting provider s server may subsequently scan the files and database Step to determine which files and database tables are most often written to or read from to determine those that provide the highest level of functionality and or interactivity to website users. Files determined to have a low level of interactivity may be flagged as static Steps and then may be included in an email sent Step to the registrant suggesting that such static files should be locked down.

Perhaps responsive to receiving such an email the registrant may elect to lock down i.e. change access permission status to read only all of the website s files folders directories databases and database tables for a period of one month. To accomplish this the registrant may navigate to his hosting provider s control panel website via the browser on his home computer e.g. client . The control panel website may display a button entitled Lock Website and a data field in which the registrant may enter the requested website lock time period of one month. When the Lock Website button is clicked by the registrant the website management server hosting the control panel website may transmit via the Internet an electronic request to lock the website which subsequently may be received by the hosting server Step .

Responsive to receiving the request to lock the server may save the original access permission settings Step for the directories folders files databases and or database tables that provide the website s functionality and subsequently change them to a read only status Step thereby locking the website and reducing the likelihood of hacking Upon the expiration of the one month time period the server automatically may restore access permissions to their original settings Step .

Other embodiments and uses of the above inventions will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the inventions disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the inventions.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present inventions or any of its embodiments.

