---

title: Constructing a combined tracking address
abstract: Systems and methods for constructing a combined tracking address and reporting tracking information using the combined tracking address are described. A code resolution response may be received from a first entity involved in resolving a mobile code. The code resolution response may include a first tracking address from the first entity and a second tracking address of a second entity involved in resolving the mobile code. The first tracking address may be combined with the second tracking address, thereby providing a combined tracking address.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08281984&OS=08281984&RS=08281984
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08281984
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: unknown
publication_date: 20101015
---
This application claims the benefit of priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 252 710 filed on Oct. 18 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Mobile codes also known as mobile barcodes are an emerging technology in the mobile space. Mobile electronic devices such as mobile telephones including cameras may be used to acquire an image of a one or two dimensional mobile code which may then be processed hereinafter referred to as resolution resolving and the like to extract data embedded therein in a particular format. Mobile codes may be configured in different ways for example as direct mobile codes and indirect mobile codes. In the case of direct mobile code resolution the data that the mobile electronic device determines from the image may then be displayed or otherwise used by the mobile electronic device. In the case of indirect mobile code resolution the mobile code symbology contains an identifier which is determined by the mobile electronic device and sent to a network resource for resolution. Responsive to receiving a communication with the identifier from the mobile electronic device the network resource then replies with content an action to take on the content or both. The data resolved i.e. decoded from a mobile code or retrieved from a Mobile Code Server is referred to as resolved content or dataset.

Various embodiments herein include at least one of systems methods software and data structures to allow for tracking of mobile code usage and actions and services associated therewith. Some such embodiments include mechanisms for tracking mobile code acquisition and subsequent usage of and actions performed with the content or service resolved from a mobile code. Such mechanisms typically provide tracking information to at least one entity involved in the transaction namely the user s mobile operator and the content provider who supplied the content or service. Such embodiments effectively enable the mobile operator to utilize various charging models to maximize its revenue stream while supplying content providers with comprehensive usage tracking data.

Mobile codes are useful in many scenarios and more scenarios will emerge as mobile code use increases. One scenario is where the content of a resolved mobile code provides an image of a coupon for a store. In this scenario the mobile code may be printed on a sign displayed next to a product that is the subject of the coupon and an image of the mobile code may be obtained through a camera of the mobile electronic device. In other embodiments the mobile code image may be obtained through a store website an image based message an email or other modes.

Another scenario is with regard to an advertisement for a movie. A mobile code image may be obtained with regard to the movie and an image or other information relevant to the movie may be encoded as content within the mobile code. Yet another scenario is in the context of a boarding pass for an airline flight. A mobile code maybe printed on a boarding pass. An image of the mobile code may be acquired such as through a camera of a mobile electronic device. The mobile code will be resolved which will provide flight information data as the content.

In each of these scenarios there may be different entities involved such as content providers network operators over whose networks content may be retrieved among other potential entities. However limited abilities for tracking activities with regard to mobile codes deprives content providers of comprehensive data analysis possibilities e.g. determining response to a given mobile barcode or actions taken by a user in response to a given mobile barcode which can be helpful in measuring promotional and awareness content effectiveness. Further absent sufficient tracking capabilities network service providers are denied the ability to track and charge for events and actions associated with the content and services accessed through resolved mobile codes.

The embodiments described herein are relevant to tracking mobile code usage in the scenarios described above and others. These embodiments are described in further detail below with reference to the drawings.

Mobile codes typically include data encoded in a barcode type pictogram according to a barcoding symbology. Examples of barcoding symbologies include European Article Number Universal Product Code EAN UPC and variants such as EAN 13 EAN 8 UPC A and UPC B QR and variants such as the Model 2 and Quick Response QR 2005 variants Data Matrix and variants such as the Error Correcting Code ECC 20 variant and Aztec. However other symbologies including standardized and proprietary barcoding symbologies and variants thereof are equally relevant and within the scope of the various embodiments herein and the following claims.

Resolving a mobile code from the pictogram form results in a dataset that is typically encoded in a data format parsable or otherwise usable by a target application capable of consuming the resolved mobile code dataset. In an embodiment a dataset is the collection of data that is encoded in the mobile code. The dataset conforms to the data format. In an embodiment a data format is the schema in which mobile codes are encoded. The format of the dataset may be eXtensible Markup Language XML another markup language or other format. Resolved mobile codes in some embodiments include data encoded therein such as one or more of resolved content a content usage tracking address and other tracking data content expiration dates and data and other data depending on the configuration of the particular embodiment.

In some embodiments in the indirect mode case the dataset may be partially available from the decoding of the pictogram and may be complemented by data returned by the code resolution server.

The mobile electronic devices may include one or more network interface devices that are operable to communicate over the at least one network . The mobile electronic devices may include but are not limited to mobile telephones portable computers personal digital assistants and other devices that may be conveniently carried by a user and provide network communications such as over a wireless connection. Mobile telephones include wireless communication devices that have generally been referred to as cell phones. Mobile telephones may include a wide range of communication devices from portable phones with limited functionality beyond voice communication to portable phones capable of providing the functionality of a personal computer. Connections between the mobile electronic devices and the at least one network may include one or more wired or wireless connection possibilities. Examples of wireless connections may include connections to mobile radio networks operating at one or more frequencies according to one or more protocols of such networks e.g. CDMA GSM etc. . The wireless connections may also or alternatively include wireless computing network connections such as connections to Institute of Electrical Engineers IEEE 802.11 type IEEE 802.11 type networks e.g. WiFi WiMAX WLAN etc. . The connections may also include shorter range wireless connections to other devices that provide access to the at least one network . An example of such a shorter range wireless connection is a Bluetooth wireless connection to another computing device such as a personal computer that is connected to the at least one network . A further example of such a shorter range wireless connection is a Near Field Communication NFC wireless contactless connection between mobile electronic devices connected to the at least one network . Wired connections may include a wired Ethernet connection between a mobile electronic device and the at least one network . Other connections may include a wired connection such as a Universal Serial Bus USB wired connection to a USB port of a computing device in communication with the at least one network .

The at least one network may include any number of network types such as one or more of mobile telephone networks wireless computer networks and wired computer networks. The at least one network may be interconnected with one or more of the Internet Local Area Networks LAN proprietary networks including content limited to access only by subscribers of particular services and other networks.

Although two servers are illustrated there may instead be one server or more than two servers. The servers may provide one or more of content services indirect mobile code resolution e.g. as a code resolution server downloadable software and the like. One or more of the servers may also provide mobile code usage tracking capabilities. The servers are accessible by the mobile electronic devices over the at least one network . Content provided by the servers may be stored on the respective server in another location such as in a database accessible by a server or elsewhere as may be retrieved by the servers . Content provided by the servers may also be derived content that may be calculated assembled or otherwise determined by the servers such as in response to a query or other request received from a mobile electronic device .

The system is typically operable by a mobile electronic device receiving a mobile code image such as mobile code image . As noted above the mobile code image may be received in several ways such as from a camera or via a web page email a picture based multi media service MMS message or other electronic modes depending on the capabilities of the mobile electronic device . The mobile code image is received by an application executing on the mobile electronic device and resolved to obtain the data encoded therein. The data is then parsed or otherwise processed by the application to obtain the resolved content and additional elements or metadata such as a tracking address specifying a location to which to report action data with regard to a mobile code or resolved content therefrom. The mobile code dataset may include direct resolved content an identifier of additional content relevant to the direct resolved content a code identifier referencing data to be obtained from a remote network location which requires resolution by a remote system to identify the resolved content and data that may be used for tracking usage of and actions performed with regard to the mobile code dataset. The above mentioned code identifier is sometimes referred to as an indirect code identifier ICI . In some embodiments if direct resolved content is included in a mobile code an ICI is not. Conversely in other embodiments if an ICI is included in mobile code dataset direct content is not. A local tracking system on the mobile electronic device typically tracks and records data representative of mobile code usage and may report the data to a mobile code tracking system over the network as actions are performed on a periodic basis or in response to a request.

In one embodiment the mobile code reader after resolving data from a direct mobile code retrieves the tracking information contained in the dataset and performs mobile code actions related to resolved content included therein. Such mobile code actions may include actions such as storing resolved mobile code dataset displaying the resolved content or invoking an application to provide a rendering of the resolved content such as a web browser image viewing application audio playback application document viewing application or other application depending on the content resolved from the mobile code. The tracking information retrieved from the dataset and used by the mobile code reader may include one or more data items such as an indicator to perform tracking or not a tracking address to which tracking data with regard to one or both of the mobile code and resolved content is to be sent a content identifier field that identifies the resolved content when reported to the mobile code tracking system and an identifier of a method to use to generate a tracking identifier. For example a method identifier may identify a hashing method known to the mobile code reader that can be applied to some or all of the resolved mobile code dataset to generate a value to report to the mobile code tracking system as an identifier of the mobile code or resolved content therein. Alternatively the tracking address may already contain one of a content identifier a reference to the content and a hash of the content as part of the address resolved from the mobile code. However the tracking information may also or alternatively include other data depending on the configuration of the particular embodiment.

In some embodiments the mobile code reader may parse a tracking indicator and when the tracking indicator indicates that tracking needs to be performed the mobile code reader will notify the tracking system of actions that have been performed. In that scenario the address of the mobile code tracking system may have been provided to the mobile code reader for instance at a provisioning step or initialization .

In some embodiments for instance in the direct mode the local tracking system will perform the tracking based on the presence of the tracking indicator and sends the metric report to the content URL that is available in the resolved content.

In some embodiments the mobile code reader may use a tracking address retrieved from a mobile code dataset to notify the mobile code tracking system of mobile code actions that have been performed on or with regard to the content associated with a content identifier. The tracking system as illustrated in is composed of two components a local component which is illustrated as a part of the mobile code reader and a remote server illustrated as the mobile code tracking system on the content management platform . The local tracking system included in the mobile code reader may be a part of the mobile code reader application part of another application a stand alone application that may be invoked by the mobile code reader a process within an operating system of the mobile electronic device or other process or application included within or accessible by the mobile electronic device . In one embodiment the local tracking system is an OMA MobAd Ad Engine. The tracking system included in the content management platform may be a part of the content management platform or a stand alone component that may be invoked by the content management platform .

In some embodiments the local tracking system on the mobile electronic device may not only track mobile code actions with regard to resolved content and action performed but it may also augment such tracking data with other data. Such other data depending on data available within the mobile electronic device may include data such as a date time when the mobile code resolved content action is performed and location data such as may be available from a global positioning system GPS device that may be present in the mobile electronic device or network connectivity data available from a radio device in the mobile electronic device . The other data may also include additional data items as may be set in a user profile or preference. However the local tracking system may be limited by a user or service provider policy from providing certain elements of tracking data.

The local tracking system may transmit tracking data to the mobile code tracking system upon occurrence of a mobile code action. However the local tracking system may also aggregate the tracking data over time and transmit the tracking data on a periodic basis. The tracking data for mobile code actions may be aggregated by tracking addresses and mobile code actions. For example for tracking address X mobile code action Y was performed five times. This aggregation may be reported daily monthly or on another periodic basis as may be specified in a mobile code a user preference a network provider configuration a mobile code tracking system preference communicated to the local tracking system of the mobile electronic device or as may be otherwise set or determined.

The mobile code tracking system may receive tracking information from multiple mobile electronic devices . The tracking information may be stored in a database other storage location or may be forwarded to a content provider. For example where a mobile code is provided by a content provider other than an entity operating the content management platform the mobile code tracking system may forward the tracking information to the content provider. The tracking information may instead be retrieved by such content providers from the mobile code tracking system . The forwarding and retrieving may be performed automatically on a scheduled or ad hoc periodic basis. Thus the content management platform may be operated by a content provider or by a service provider that provides mobile code tracking services for content providers. Such service providers may be network operators but may also be other entities that are able to communicate over network operator networks the Internet or other network over which data may be exchanged between the content management platform and mobile electronic devices .

In some embodiments tracking data may be sent to a tracking mechanism not shown other than the remote tracking system specified by the mobile code reader provider typically a network operator. The mobile code provider network operator is referred as the service provider. The location of the service provider tracking mechanism may be pre provisioned on the mobile code reader . The local tracking system may send the tracking address included in the dataset to the service provider s tracking mechanism in which case the service provider is expected to report usage tracking data to the remote tracking system . Alternatively the local tracking mechanism may be capable of appending the tracking address to the pre provisioned service provider tracking address in a predefined manner to construct a combined URL i.e. a URL redirect from a service provider server to the remote tracking system at a content provider server .

In such instances where the mobile code dataset includes an ICI the mobile code reader may submit the ICI to a home content management platform over a network in a mobile code resolution request. The home content management platform will resolve the ICI either locally or by forwarding the ICI to another network entity and return appropriate information which may include resolved content a content identifier and other data as needed such as a tracking identifier or tracking address. When resolving the ICI the home content management platform may generate an association between the ICI and the resolved content ID and or the server ID from where the resolved content was retrieved. This association may be stored by the home content management platform and an identifier of this association may be generated. Thus when mobile code tracking information is received from the local tracking system which may be part of the mobile code reader of a mobile electronic device with an identifier request identifier content identifier ICI the tracking system belonging to the home content management platform can associate the tracking information to the specific mobile code or resolved content. Further in the case where the mobile code ICI is resolved at a remote content management platform the remote content management may map the code identifier received in the resolution request to a content identifier. In further embodiments mapping may occur between one or more of a code identification a content identification and a routing prefix. In response to the resolution request from the home content management platform the remote content management platform includes at least the content and may include one or more of actions to be performed on the resolved content the routing prefix content identification a tracking identifier and tracking address.

The information returned by the home content management platform will be used by the local tracking system of a mobile electronic device to track user actions performed with regard to the resolved content such as viewing the content in an application . The tracking on the mobile electronic device in indirect mobile code resolution embodiments may be the same as discussed above with regard to direct mode mobile code resolution. The reporting of tracking information by the local tracking system of the mobile electronic device will be performed in accordance with data included in the mobile code dataset decoded from the pictogram or received from the home content management platform such as with the identifier generated by the home content management platform that is associated with the mobile code resolution request. This dataset may contain instructions for the local tracking system to submit the tracking information to the home content management platform directly to a content provider bypassing the mobile code tracking system belonging to the home content management platform or to another entity.

The reporting of tracking information may be performed upon an occurrence of a mobile code or resolved content action or tracking information may be stored and aggregated over time and reported on a periodic basis as discussed above. When reporting mobile code or resolved content action information data representative of the respective mobile code or resolved content actions may be submitted by the target application using an application programming interface of the local tracking system to one or more targets identified as the location s to which the action tracking information is to be submitted. The targets to which the local tracking system submits the action tracking information may be identified by the tracking address resolved from the mobile code or received from the home content management platform . In other embodiments the data representative of the mobile code actions may be formatted by the local tracking system in a format such as XML and transmitted to one or more targets. In other embodiments the tracking information may be retrieved from mobile electronic devices by mobile code tracking system by the home content management platform or other system such as a system of a content provider. The tracking information sent to or retrieved by the home content management platform or other system may include the identifier generated by the home content management platform that is associated with the mobile code resolution request.

Alternatively in order to facilitate tracking based on application or user access to content associated with a mobile code the home CMP mobile code tracking system may alter the resolved content by changing URL s embedded in the content such as a URL link to a coupon to redirect the user through use of a URL redirect to route the request through the Home CMP mobile code tracking system before accessing the requested content or service . In other embodiments the local tracking system of a mobile electronic device may alter URLs or other links with regard to a mobile code resolved content to be directed first through the Home CMP mobile code tracking system before being redirected to the requested content. The address for tracking the resolved content may be the same or different from the address for tracking the mobile code i.e. before accessing the resolved content .

In some embodiments of the method the mobile code dataset includes a content identifier that identifies the resolved content. When reporting usage regarding the mobile code or resolved content the content identifier may be sent to the tracking address along with identifiers of actions. In some embodiments where a content identifier is not included in the mobile code dataset a hash function may be applied to the mobile code or to the resolved content or a portion thereof. A resulting hash value can then be used in place of a content identifier. In other embodiments the hash value may already be included in the mobile code dataset and is used as the content identifier.

In some embodiments of the method an action or event performed with regard to a mobile code or resolved content may include presenting the resolved content via a user interface device such as a display a speaker or other output device of a mobile electronic device depending on the type of the resolved content. Such actions or events which are used interchangeably to refer to what is or may be performed with a mobile code or resolved content may also include sending one or more of the mobile code and resolved content to another computing device such as another mobile electronic device or a personal computer.

Tracking performed events that are associated with the mobile code or resolved content may include storing one or more parameters of the associated event according to a tracking policy. The tracking policy may be local configuration settings a policy received from a mobile code tracking system a policy included in mobile code dataset or other configuration settings that may be stored or received or defined by a user. These parameters specified in such policies may include a parameter that identifies an application accessing the resolved content a date and time of when an event occurred a location where the event occurred as may be determined based on data from a GPS device of a mobile electronic device as input by a user by identifying a radio tower the mobile electronic device is in communication with or by other methods depending on the particular embodiment. Such policies may also specify when tracking information is to be uploaded to the tracking address or elsewhere.

Processing the request may alternatively include mapping a content identification to a tracking address. In such embodiments the content identification identifies the resolved content and the tracking address identifies the computing device performing the method . In this case the local tracking system may send the tracking data along with the tracking address to the home content management platform to specify the tracking address to which the tracking data is to be forwarded.

In some embodiments the formatted response data includes instructions executable by a mobile electronic device to modify a tracking address on the mobile electronic device. For example if a content item includes a URL that URL may be modified to be directed to the computing device performing the method which upon receipt of a request for the URL will track receipt of the request and redirect the request to the intended location.

In some embodiments the method may further include notifying a content provider such as a content provider that provided a mobile code that a code resolution request was received. The method may also include receiving tracking data from the mobile electronic device the tracking data including actions performed on the resolved content by the mobile electronic device. This tracking data may then be sent to a content provider such as in instances when the method is performed by an entity other than the content provider.

The method may be performed by a content management platform such as content management platform illustrated and described with regard to . In some such embodiments the content management platform when processing the request to resolve content associated with the code identification the content management platform does not perform the mapping of the code identification or the content identification to one or more of a content identification that identifies the resolved content the routing prefix that identifies the network entity capable of resolving the mobile code dataset the tracking address of the remote tracking mechanism. Instead the data subsequently received from a local tracking system of a mobile electronic device includes the usage tracking data specifying a content identifier and may also include a routing prefix. The routing prefix may be known to the local tracking system from the resolved mobile code could be previously known such as from a configuration setting or as cached from another mobile code or is otherwise obtained or known. The routing prefix may not be included in some embodiments however such as when the tracking is also performed by the home content management platform. In some embodiments the tracking address returned by the home content management platform may already contain a content identification and routing prefix referred or encoded as part of the tracking address.

Various examples of systems and methods for resolved mobile code content tracking have been described above by reference to . The remaining illustrate example embodiments in which the resolved mobile code content tracking is implemented using a combined tracking address. The combined tracking address facilitates reporting mobile code usage data to multiple entities. The entities may include but are not limited to a user s mobile operator and a content provider who supplied the content or service.

Although the use of a combined tracking address is described hereinafter with respect to a mobile code MC architecture system or enabler e.g. as defined by the Open Mobile Alliance OMA nevertheless this approach is applicable for any situation where general content retrieval and subsequent tracking of content consumption involve more than a single network side entity. For instance network side entities may use example embodiments of the systems and methods for creating a combined tracking address at the time of client originated content acquisition or content request retrieval by combining tracking address fragments provided by entities involved in content acquisition or request. This ensures that all network side entities interested in tracking information obtain tracking data following a resolution path of a single tracking report message. This also ensures scalability of network side entities i.e. there is no need to analyze the tracking report to identify a next entity the first entity just forwards the reporting data to the next address in the URL of the received tracking report HTTP message decoupling of content delivery and content tracking business functions i.e. this allows for different servers for these business functions and efficient use of over the air bandwidth i.e. this provides a single reporting message for multiple network entities as opposed to multiple messages .

Referring back to the mobile electronic device includes a mobile code reader with a local tracking system for tracking activities performed with regard to mobile codes. The mobile code reader may receive over a network a provisioning method or an indirect code resolution response. In some embodiments the local tracking system via the mobile code reader may also receive over network at least one tracking address and send over network tracking information representative of the mobile code usage to at least one of the tracking addresses. In further embodiments the mobile electronic device is provisioned with a tracking address for a Home CMP and that tracking address is shared with the local tracking system. If in this case the Home CMP is the only entity to which the mobile electronic device needs to report tracking information the mobile code reader may not receive a tracking address over the network because the tracking address is already known to the local tracking system.

In an example embodiment the combined tracking address may be generated by the local tracking system of the mobile electronic device using the at least one tracking address received over network . The tracking addresses may be received by the mobile electronic device as part of an indirect code resolution response. In one embodiment the tracking addresses received by the mobile electronic device may be in the form of Uniform Resource Locators URLs within the code resolution response and the combined tracking address generated by mobile electronic device may be in the form of a combined URL.

In another example embodiment the tracking addresses may already be in the form of a combined tracking address when received by the local tracking system of the mobile electronic device . For example the mobile tracking system of content management platform may generate the combined tracking address and send the combined tracking address to the mobile electronic device. In another example a combined tracking address may be generated by various entities involved in the mobile code resolution process. One or more of the entities involved in resolving a mobile code may generate a combined tracking address by appending the entity s own tracking address to at least one tracking address in the code resolution response.

As part of the tracking process a tracking address is passed to the Mobile Code Client identified as MCC in and to identify the entity or entities e.g. Home CMP Remote CMP etc. involved in code resolution. In the example embodiment shown in the combined tracking address is created by the MCC . In the example embodiment shown in a combined tracking address is created by the Home CMP . In the example embodiment shown in the tracking address in the code resolution response may be updated by any of the involved entities in the code resolution process to create a combined tracking address.

Referring now to the MCC receives a set of tracking addresses in a code resolution response and combines the individual tracking addresses into a single tracking address as illustrated. The combined tracking address may contain the tracking address of the tracking mechanism at the Home CMP if not already known by or provisioned on the MCC. The single tracking address may be constructed by appending one address to another address or addresses pre pending one address to another address or addresses concatenating addresses or otherwise combining the addresses such that individual addresses making up the single tracking address can be parsed or otherwise identified from the single tracking address.

Referring now to the Home CMP receives in a code resolution response one or more individual tracking addresses identifying other entities involved in the resolution of a particular mobile code. In the example embodiment shown in the mobile code tracking system component combines the individual tracking addresses into a single tracking address referred to as a combined tracking address. The combined tracking address may then be passed to the MCC . In an alternative embodiment not shown in the mobile code tracking system component does not combine the individual tracking addresses and instead passes the individual tracking addresses separately to the MCC .

As shown in during code resolution each involved entity that participates in the code resolution process e.g. the remote CMP and the home CMP may modify a tracking address value in a code resolution response received from a previous entity. The tracking address value may be modified to include a tracking address for the entity s own tracking mechanism. Alternatively if the entity does not need to receive tracking information the entity may just pass to the next entity the tracking address received from the previous entity. When the last entity in the chain i.e. Home CMP receives the tracking address it contains a full path for use later when reporting mobile usage. In one embodiment the Home CMP may insert itself into this tracking path by prefixing the tracking address in the code resolution response with the address of the tracking server associated with the Home CMP . When the MCC receives the code resolution response the code resolution response contains the network addresses to where the MCC is to submit tracking reports.

After the individual tracking addresses are combined into a single tracking address and made available to the MCC by any of the methods shown in and the MCC may prepare one or more tracking reports.

In one embodiment the MCC may send a complete tracking report to the tracking mechanism at the Home CMP along with the combined URL to which the Home CMP will send the appropriate tracking report s as per the Service Provider policy. Using as an example after the MCC constructs the combined tracking address and generates a complete tracking report the complete tracking report is sent to the tracking mechanism at the Home CMP along with the combined URL which in this example is www.sprint.com metrics 2009 iden A1B2C3 to which the Home CMP will send the appropriate tracking report which in this example is www.sprint.com metrics 2009 iden A1B2C3 . After the Home CMP receives the tracking report and the combined URL the tracking mechanism at the Home CMP creates and sends a second report to the combined URL as per the Service Provider policy. In an alternative embodiment rather than sending a combined URL to the Home CMP the MCC may send the individual tracking addresses.

In another embodiment the MCC may prepare separate tracking reports for each of the entities involved in the mobile code resolution process according to defined Service Provider policies and may send the reports to the combined URL. The tracking report s follows the path identified by the combined URL. Again using as an example after the MCC constructs the combined tracking address and generates the separate tracking reports the separate tracking reports maybe sent to the first part of the combined URL www.att.com tracking id A1B2C3 t1 www.sprint.com metrics 2009 iden A1B2C3 that is www.att.com tracking id A1B2C3 which is the address of the Home CMP . After the Home CMP receives the separate tracking reports and the combined URL the tracking mechanism at the Home CMP selects and sends to the next entity identified by the combined URL which in this example is the remote CMP www.sprint.com metrics 2009 iden A1B2C3 the appropriate report from one of the separate reports.

The entities involved in resolution are provided with tracking and logging information collected at the MCC . However the type of information and the detail of such information may be governed by Service Provider policies and business agreements established between the different entities. To facilitate the filtering of tracking information contained in the tracking reports the service provider policies may be expressed through a XML schema specifying parameters appropriate for each entity involved in the tracking or XSL Transformations XSLT that may be applied to the tracking report as it traverses the tracking report path. For example the Home CMP may define the information to be contained in tracking reports sent from its tracking mechanism or by the tracking mechanism at the MCC through the use of a schema. Remote CMP may define another schema for the tracking information that is to be sent to Remote CMP and so on.

Alternatively using XSLT the tracking mechanism at the Home CMP may prepare a new tracking report based on the contents of the complete tracking report which it received from the MCC . This allows the Home CMP to specify what information should be included and what information should not be included in the tracking report sent to the next entity in the tracking report path. The same or similar transformation may be made at the tracking mechanism at the MCC if it is the MCC s tracking mechanism s responsibility to prepare and distribute tracking reports. The XSLT used for preparing such reports i.e. all reports except that which is sent to the Home CMP may be provided in advance to the MCC s tracking mechanism by the Home CMP .

Each entity in the tracking report path may use XSLT to create a new tracking report for the next entity in the path based on the tracking report it received.

Embodiments of the systems and methods described by reference to may be implemented in a variety of contexts including but not limited to media video image sound delivery consumption on device or dynamic content delivery.

In an example embodiment involving media delivery and consumption on device the systems and methods described herein may ensure appropriate charging and distribution of payments for media consumption by the user. The tracking may involve multiple network entities such as delivery server of the network operator or media service provider media store media author. Each of these entities may be engaged in the media acquisition path or some entities may provide tracking address fragments related to other entities for example based on business agreements with the author e.g. artist media store may add media author tracking address fragment to its own tracking address fragment prior to providing media along with the tracking address to the delivery server.

In an example embodiment involving dynamic content delivery the systems and methods described herein may ensure appropriate charging. The following entities may need to be engaged in tracking network operator or service provider server content aggregator server content provider server content source or author. The same model described above may apply in this example.

In addition the systems and methods described herein may also be applied to mixed mode scenarios when content resolution involves different types of business entities interested in usage tracking for example mobile code resolution results in media file e.g. video which includes advertising. In this example scenario a mobile code resolution server may receive a media file along with the tracking address combining fragments associated with media provider and advertising entity and prefixes it with its own tracking address prior to delivering media file and combined tracking address to the requesting device. A usage tracking report is then delivered to the tracking server associated with code resolution server this tracking server then forwards this report or part of it to a media provider identified according to URL and this media provider forwards received report or part of it to the advertiser identified by the remainder of the URL.

One example computing device is in the form of a mobile electronic device . The mobile electronic device is an example of the mobile electronic devices described above with regarding . The mobile electronic device may include a processing unit memory removable storage and non removable storage . The processing unit may include one or more processing units or may include one or more multiple core processing units. Memory may include volatile memory and non volatile memory . Mobile electronic device may include a variety of device readable media such as volatile memory and non volatile memory removable storage and non removable storage . The storage may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technologies or any other medium capable of storing machine readable instructions and data that may be present in a mobile electronic device. Mobile electronic device may include input output and a communication connection device . The mobile electronic device in some embodiments may also include a camera .

The mobile electronic device typically operates in a networked environment using the communication connection device to connect to one or more networks such as network described above with regard to . Through the communication connection device the mobile electronic device may connect to one or more remote computers. The remote computer may include a personal computer PC server such as servers also described with regard to router network PC a peer device or other common network node or the like. The communication connection device may connect to various network types that may include a wireless telephone network a Local Area Network LAN a Wide Area Network WAN the Internet a proprietary subscription based network or other networks. The mobile electronic device also may include wireless telephone capabilities to provide voice telephone service via a wireless telephone network.

Machine readable instructions stored on a machine readable medium are executable by the processing unit of the mobile electronic device . The memory removable storage and non removable storage are some examples of articles including a machine readable medium. For example a program with instructions that may be executed by the processing unit to cause the mobile electronic device to perform one or more of the methods described herein may be stored on a machine readable medium such as the memory . Other programs may also be stored on a machine readable medium such as a browser application providing web browsing functionality of the mobile electronic device . Further the programs may include a mobile code reading application that may be operable to extract data from a mobile code image received from camera from a remote server within an email in an MMS message a web page viewable within the browser application or other source. In some embodiments the mobile code reading application may be a service application to provide mobile code services such as a service application included within an operating system that executes upon the mobile electronic device. In other embodiments the mobile code reading application may be a component of another application operable to present data of and obtained based on data from a mobile code image. The programs may also include a local mobile code tracking system as discussed above.

It will be readily understood to those skilled in the art that various other changes in the details material and arrangements of the parts and method stages which have been described and illustrated in order to explain the nature of the inventive subject matter may be made without departing from the principles and scope of the inventive subject matter as expressed in the subjoined claims.

