---

title: Packing properties of particulate compositions
abstract: A method and system for determining a packing property of a particulate composition. The method includes: obtaining size information relating to the particulate material; determining neighbor information from the size information; determining contact information from the size information; and determining a packing property from the neighbor information and the contact information, thereby enabling determination of the characteristic properties of the particulate composition. The method can be executed by use of a computer system to execute computer software instructions applied to data obtained on the particulate composition to determine a variety of properties of the particulate composition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08315821&OS=08315821&RS=08315821
owner: New York University
number: 08315821
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100112
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 USC 119 e of U.S. Application 61 144 353 filed Jan. 13 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention is directed to packing properties of particulate compositions. More particularly the invention is directed to establishing a methodology to characterize packing properties of particulates and also how to prepare particulate compositions to achieve a selected packing arrangement and attain desired properties associated with the particulate compositions.

Particulate matter is a pervasive constituent ranging from droplets of fat in mayonnaise to boulders in an avalanche. Collections of many particles are considered to be a state of matter different from solids liquids or gasses distinguished by the existence of an amorphous and mechanically stable jammed state. Packing problems are ubiquitous ranging from oil extraction through porous rocks to grain storage in silos and the compaction of pharmaceutical powders in tablets or capsules. At a given density particulate systems pack into a mechanically stable and in cases into an amorphous state. Theoretical frameworks have proposed a connection between jamming and the glass transition the thermodynamics of jamming and geometric modeling of random packings. Nevertheless a simple underlying mechanism for the random assembly of athermal particles analogous to crystalline ordering remains unknown.

The invention involves use of three dimensional measurements of polydisperse packings of frictionless or emulsion particles to build a simple statistical model in which the complexity of the global packing is distilled into a local stochastic process. From the perspective of a single particle the packing problem is reduced to the random assembly or formation of nearest neighbors followed by a random choice of contacts among them. There are several key parameters in the model the available solid angle around each particle and the ratio of contacts to neighbors and these can be directly obtained from experiments. We demonstrate that this granocentric view captures the essential properties of the polydisperse emulsion packing ranging from the microscopic distributions of nearest neighbors and contacts to local density fluctuations and all the way to the global packing density. This model reveals a general principle of organization for random packing and provides the foundation for a theory of jammed packings. In addition application of our results to monodisperse and bidisperse systems provides quantitative agreement with previously measured trends in global density.

Previous studies on the jammed packing state of particulate compositions include the characterization of the network of forces the microstructure and effects of particle composition and packing history. In the following we visualize three dimensional random packings of frictionless emulsion droplets using confocal microscopy to characterize the geometry and connectivity of the packing. presents an image of a fluorescently labeled oil in water emulsion creamed under gravity to form the mechanically stable random pack as described in the methods section. The confocal data are preferably analyzed using a deconvolution technique to extract the radius and position of each droplet with subvoxel accuracy of about 1 of the average particle size. We calculate the probability distribution of radii P r shown in exhibits a width of 23 of the mean radius. In order to characterize the local neighborhood of each particle we tessellate the packing using the navigation map an extension of the Voronoi map to polydisperse systems with each point in free space allocated to the particle whose surface is closest to it as shown in . Two particles are said to be neighbors if their corresponding cells share a common interface in the navigation map. Each cell is gray scale according to the number of neighbors n around the central particle ranging from 4 30. This wide range arises from the polydispersity of the sample and stands in contrast to the narrow range of interest neighbors typically from 12 17.

A subset of the neighbors is in contact with the central particle and therefore capable of transmitting forces. The resulting force network gives rise to the mechanical stability of the packing. In the confocal images as seen in the points of contact between particles are self consistently determined by the geometric overlap of spheres that reconstruct the particles and an intensity enhancement owing to the fluorescence of Nile Red dye. We measure the mean number of contacts also known as the coordination number to be z 6 3 0 3 in good agreement with z 6 required for required for isostatic mechanical equilibrium. A slight discrepancy may be expected owing to the small deformation of the droplets.

While the global constraint of isostaticity is satisfied the number of neighbours n and contacts z around each particle fluctuates significantly within the packing. shows that for each n the number of contacts z can take any value between 0 and n which suggests that z is randomly distributed. In addition for particles with more neighbours the most likely number of contacts increases indicated by the coded probability map in . Moreover both n and z increase with the radius r of the central particle as shown in the scatter plot in . This makes sense as larger articles have more surface area available on which to fit neighbours.

To understand these observations we consider the packing problem from the granocentric point of view of a single article in the bulk exemplified by the particle marked by a star in the confocal image in . We propose a granocentric model for random packing initially achieved by the formation of a set of neighbours followed by the creation of contacts. This model allows for a definition of a local cell giving access to the local packing fraction.

The starred particle in is surrounded by 13 nearest neighbours. The space that each neighbour occupies depends on its size relative to the central particle. The space occupied by each neighbour around a central particle is characterized by the solid angle v it subtends . Using this geometric description we remove a trivial dependence of local packing on the central particle radius which represents an important simplification. As shown in the packing of the neighbours precludes the addition of another neighbouring particle because there is a limited amount of available solid angle around the central particle of radius r. This suggests an upper limit r on the available solid angle.

We therefore model the formation of a set of n nearest neighbours around a central particle of radius ras a random selection of neighbours and a summation of their respective solid angles up to a threshold r . It follows that n is the number of particles needed to reach without exceeding r . Following ref we ignore all neighbour neighbour correlations by neglecting relative positions of neighbours on the surface of the central particle. The sizes of each successive neighbour are therefore statistically independent and identically distributed. The formation of a set of neighbours thus corresponds to the first passage of a directed one dimensional random walk with steps given by the solid angles of the nearest neighbours .

In order to describe all the properties of a packing knowledge of nearest neighbours must be supplemented by knowledge of the contact network responsible for mechanical stability. As noted in only a fraction of the n nearest neighbours are in contact with the central particle. The fluctuations in z shown in suggest that contacts are randomly chosen among neighbours. We model the selection of contacts by Bernoulli trials with success rate p r thereby neglecting all possible collective behaviour. Thus the distribution of the number of contacts z for a given number of neighbours n P z n is a binomial distribution.

We have introduced two processes determining the connectivity of experimental packings. They are further characterized by fluctuations in the local packing fraction which is relevant to global properties such as permeability and yield stress. The local packing fraction is defined as the ratio of the particle volume Vto the cell volume V. As our granocentric model does not include information on neighbour positions it is not possible to use the experimental definition of a cell in this framework. Instead we use an effective definition for the local cell incorporating two salient physical features of the experimental cell first a particle with more neighbours will have a higher second for a given number of neighbours a particle with more contacts will have a higher . Therefore we approximate the cell volume as the sum of the volume of the central particle plus the volumes contributed by a portion of space between the central particle and each of its neighbours see inset a more complete description is given in Methods . The differing contribution to the cell volume by the neighbours and contacts is described by an effective surface to surface distance for non contacting neighbours.

Thus the statistical model reduces the packing problem complexity to two independent random processes at the single particle level first the formation of a set of nearest neighbours is effected by assuming that the neighbours are chosen independently second the selection of contacts is assumed to be independent. The local definition of a cell provides further access to local packing fraction fluctuations. Whereas previous geometric models have predicted the average coordination number and density of discrete multicomponent systems by mapping the packing problem onto the first passage of a random walk we are able to analytically study continuous distributions of radii and their influence on the full distributions of the number of nearest neighbours coordination number and local density. Importantly our model exploits the previously neglected observation that not all particles touch their neighbours.

Overall the model introduces three parameters r p r and with different physical interpretations. The central parameter of our model r is the available solid angle around a particle of radius r. It is an effective parameter whose value encompasses the details of the packing structure such as polydispersity steric effects and long range correlations. For example the available solid angle of a face centred cubic crystal is 3.2 owing to the space between neighbours whereas the total solid angle around a sphere is 4 . As described hereinafter the tools of random walks yield a functional relationship between the average number of neighbours around particles of radius rand the threshold r . Using the experimental average value of n for each radius rpresented in the model estimates r . Remarkably the experimentally determined values of r are independent of rto within 0.15 around a value of 3.68 . Thus the ratio of the occupied surface area to the total surface area of the central particle does not depend on the size of the central particle in this polydisperse sample. The value of 3.68 is reasonable because it implies that there are unfilled spaces between the neighbours observed in the example of . The interpretation of as an upper limit is tested by directly measuring whether the total solid angle around each particle lies below . shows that 98 of the measured values are bounded by the estimated value of consistent with the proposed model assumptions.

To select contacts among neighbours we introduced the success rate p r z r n r There is no reason to suspect that this probability p r should be independent of particle size. However our measurements in reveal that this average fraction of neighbours in contact is always p r 0.41. This independence represents an important simplification and enhances the appeal of the model. We test the assumption that contacts are chosen independently by examining the experimental distribution of z for a given n. As seen in for n 13 this distribution is captured by a binomial distribution with p 0.41.

The final parameter in our model characterizes the local cell definition. The mean radius is a natural length scale in our system which we use to quantify the effective distance . We introduce a dimensionless parameter such that r assumed to be the same for every non contacting particle. We choose 0.30 to match the experimentally measured mean local packing fraction. Thus gaps between the neighbours are significantly smaller than the average particle size consistent with the notion that one cannot fit further particles between a particle and its neighbour.

Using this framework we calculate distributions of n z and local and compare them with experimental results to test our model. Using the equations presented herein we demonstrate in that the predicted distributions are in excellent agreement with the experimental data. Furthermore the full distributions as a function of the radius of the central particle are also shown to be in agreement See . These results validate the model as a tool to predict the effects of polydispersity on random packings. As shown in both the experiments and the model show that 18 of particles are mechanically unstable with fewer than four contacts. These particles known as rattlers arise naturally from the random packing processes of our model in contrast to existing models that exclude rattlers and only focus on the network of contacts. The agreement between model and experiment for local quantities n z and shows that the model quantitatively captures the local packing structure. The applicability of the model to packings with other size distributions is presented hereinafter and . Numerical simulations show that the range of values for each parameter is narrow but that the parameters are not universal for all polydispersities.

We can extend our local view of packing to predict the global density a long standing question in understanding random close packing. The influence of the particle size distribution on global density has many industrial applications such as predicting the density of dried paint or the density of porous rocks. The global packing fraction is defined as the ratio of the total volume of matter divided by the total volume of the sample. This is translated into our local model as 

It is important to note that the model value for the global packing fraction is relatively insensitive to the local fluctuations and depends strongly only on . Using the model definition of the local cell volume we predict the global density of our packings to within 0.5 of the experimentally measured 66.4 . It is not surprising that this polydisperse packing is denser than its monodisperse counterpart 64 as small particles can pack in the interstices of larger ones.

We further probe the predictive power of our model for systems with other size distributions by considering bidisperse packings. In such packings polydispersity is a function of the size ratio of the two species and the volume ratio of all small particles to all particles. Using the local cell definition with the same parameters as for our experimental system the model reproduces published experimental data for different volume fractions of small particles and size ratios even in the limit of the monodisperse case . This demonstrates that a local model based on geometric considerations alone provides an effective description of the packing as a whole.

The model accurately characterizes random polydisperse packings in terms of numbers of nearest neighbours and contacts per particle fluctuations in local density and global density of the system. Our experiments reveal that the model parameters and p are independent of the central particle size leading to a simple physical interpretation of the mechanism of random packing. From the perspective of each particle a stable random packing is achieved when 1 the surrounding space is filled with a set of nearest neighbours and 2 some of those neighbours touch the central particle to achieve mechanical equilibrium. This model offers a simplified view of the packing problem and opens an analytical path to explore the industrially important effects of polydispersity on local and global properties of packings.

It is surprising that such a simple model should describe the random packing of polydisperse spheres. For monodisperse packings the only source of disorder is positional. Such a system is an archetypal example of a complex system where correlations between particle positions determine the physical behaviour. In our system the polydispersity serves as a second source of randomness added to the positional disorder. Our model is able to describe a polydisperse packing because the local source of randomness coming from the distribution of radii P r dominates the positional disorder.

The granocentric model can be used to count the number of equivalent local configurations in disordered packings and thus may provide a definition for entropy. Thus we may probe the contention that jammed packings can be described using a thermodynamic approach. Other open questions that extensions to the model could answer include the effects of spatial dimensions and particle shape on packings. We have so far considered purely random packings but it would be interesting to examine how correlations influence the microstructure both in the model and in the experiments. This work represents an effective medium model for random close packing while the determination of model parameters from first principles may provide a route to a complete theory.

The assumption that successive steps in the random walk are independent leads us to use the Laplace transform L. If X and Y are two independent random variables of respective probability density Pand P then the probability density of the sum Psatisfies L P L P L P . This basic observation combined with standard probability tools leads to the main results herein.

For contacting particles let H be the surface of the hyperboloid defined by the navigation map of these two particles with surfaces in contact. The volume v is defined as the volume of a region between the central particle and the neighbour that is the portion of C between S and H.

For non contacting particles let H be the surface of the hyperboloid defined by the navigation map of these two particles with surfaces separated by a distance d. The volume v is then the portion of C between S and H .

The method and system of the invention can be implemented by the computer system shown in . The system includes a computer which can execute a computer readable medium including a computer program such as computer software module with instructions embedded in a computer addressable storage medium . This medium can be read writable which enables data to be written thereto and read therefrom. This feature enables a user to perform static or dynamic data analysis and results of that analysis allow a user to act on that information to process the particulate material by utilizing the characteristics determined such as the packing property of the material to carry out at least one of change the physical properties of the material change the chemical properties of the material display information about the material print out for use the characteristics of the material and store for future use characteristics of the material.

In another aspect of the invention the probability densities can be related to dependence on the central particle radius. The model presented allows for the calculation of the conditional probability density of neighbours P n r contacts P z r and local packing fraction P r for a given central particle radius r. We integrate these densities against the radius distribution P r to obtain the overall distributions for example 

The results presented in show that the averaged distributions computed using the model agree with the experiment. A more detailed test of this agreement with the experiment is to compare the conditional probabilities with experimental results to see if the model captures the dependence on the central particle radius. These comparisons are presented in . Experimental data is plotted as circles whose area is proportional to the number of observations. These circles are overplotted on a grayscale map of probability obtained from the model. It can be seen that the model quantitatively captures the dependence of rfor the local packing fraction the number of neighbours and the number of contacts . In addition we show the probability distributions for each given radius rin the gallery of graphs in for a more detailed comparison. Due to the broad radius distribution of the emulsion droplets some of the histograms lack statistics nevertheless the trends are successfully reproduced.

The experimental samples we studied all present similar particle size distributions. In order to investigate the behaviour of our model for other distributions we use numerical simulations to create jammed packings for controlled particle size distributions using the well known LAMMPS molecular dynamics simulations. These packings were analyzed in the same way as experimental ones and compared with the model calculations.

For a fixed value of 1 we created four jammed packings for increasing values of thus changing the polydispersity of the packing. Table 1 presents the value of and p obtained for the different packings. These values clearly show that the set of parameters that characterize a packing weakly depends on the polydispersity. Note however that this variation is rather small so that to a first approximation a reasonable description of the packing may be obtained by assuming the experimentally obtained values.

For practical purposes such as optimizing the packing fraction by choosing the radius distribution as is of interest to paint manufacturers there exist a set of reasonable assumptions that yield realistic predictions. First assume that both r and p r are independent of r. Next choose a value of slightly less than 4 to account for the presence of steric effects e.g. 3 68 . Then it follows that n w where w drdrw r r P r P r . Finally assuming that a static packing is close to isostaticity z 6 and p 6 n. In this way the model can be exploited to make predictions about packings for a given distribution of particle sizes. This recipe will provide a good starting point for any experimental exploration. Using the bidisperse packings we demonstrated that such an approximate method yielded good quantitative agreement with measured trends in the density dependence on the size ratio and the volume fraction of small particles.

The foregoing description of embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the present invention to the precise form disclosed and modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teachings or may be acquired from practice of the present invention. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the present invention and its practical application to enable one skilled in the art to utilize the present invention in various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

