---

title: Saving and restoring collaborative applications in context
abstract: A method for saving and restoring collaborative applications to a selected earlier time, may include saving, by a processing device, content for each collaborative application of a plurality of collaborative applications as a user uses each of the collaborative applications. The method may additionally include restoring each collaborative application to a selected earlier time in response to the selected earlier time being selected by the user. The method may further include presenting the content of each collaborative application at the selected earlier time to the user in response to each collaborative application being restored to the selected earlier time, wherein each collaborative application is presented in an original context from the selected earlier time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08484569&OS=08484569&RS=08484569
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08484569
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100630
---
Aspects of the present invention relate to restoring collaborative applications to a previous time period and more particularly to a method system and computer program product for saving and restoring collaborative applications in context to a selected earlier time.

Computer users today typically have multiple computer tools or applications running simultaneously. Several of these tools or applications may have the capability of collaborating or working cooperatively with one another. For example e mail instant messaging documents presentations shared spaces computer application Integration Development Environment IDE and other applications may be used in conjunction with one another or collaboratively.

Computer users often communicate with colleagues using more then one application. The content of one application may influence what is described in another application or collaborative application. For example a user may be instant messaging a colleague on a particular topic and may create a note which is based on the information shared in the chat session in another collaborative application. Each of these applications may allow the user to review past information but only separately i.e. either the chat history or the note. However in a collaborative environment the entire context may be much more valuable or meaningful than the individual pieces.

According to one aspect of the present invention a method for saving and restoring collaborative applications to a selected earlier time may include saving by a processing device content for each collaborative application of a plurality of collaborative applications as a user uses each of the collaborative applications. The method may also include restoring by the processing device each collaborative application to a selected earlier time in response to the selected earlier time being selected by the user. The method may further include presenting by the processing device the content of each collaborative application at the selected earlier time to the user in response to each collaborative application being restored to the selected earlier time. Each collaborative application may be presented in an original context from the selected earlier time.

According to another aspect of the present invention a system for saving and restoring collaborative applications to a selected earlier time may include a processor. A module operating on the processor may be adapted for saving content of each collaborative application and restoring the content of each collaborative application to a selected earlier time. The module may include a module to save the content for each collaborative application of a plurality of applications as a user uses each of the collaborative applications. The module for saving and restoring content of each collaborative application may also include another module to restore the content of each collaborative application to the selected earlier time in response to the selected earlier time being selected by the user. The module for saving and restoring content of each collaborative application may include an additional module to present the restored content of each collaborative application at the selected earlier time on a display to the user in response to each collaborative application being restored to the selected time. Each collaborative application may be presented in an original context at the selected earlier time.

According to a further aspect of the present invention a computer program product for saving and restoring collaborative applications to a selected earlier time may include a computer readable storage medium having computer readable program code embodied therewith. The computer readable program code may include computer readable program code configured to save content for each collaborative application of a plurality of collaborative applications as a user uses each of the collaborative applications. The computer readable program code may also include computer readable program code configured to restore each collaborative application to a selected earlier time in response to the selected earlier time being selected by the user. The computer readable program code may additionally include computer readable program code configured to present the content of each collaborative application at the selected earlier time to the user in response to each collaborative application being restored to the selected earlier time. Each collaborative application may be presented in an original context from the selected earlier time.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In block a graphical user interface GUI may be presented for selecting parameters for saving and restoring applications. The GUI may be presented in response to a user selecting an icon menu item of the like to activate the saving and restoring of application feature. The applications being saved for possible future restoration as described herein may be collaborative applications. Collaborative applications may be defined as applications or computer tools that may compliment one another or that may be used in conjunction with one another. Examples may include but are not limited to email instant messaging IM notes that may be taken in another application related to emails and or IM dialogues documents presentations computer application Integration Development Environment IDE and similar applications or tools. Collaborative applications may be used by multiple users and as such may define a collaborative environment. Collaborative may be defined in one context as a recursive process where two or more people or organizations may work together in an intersection of common goals. Such collaboration may result in a final goal of something produced by a computer application such as a note presentation computer application etc.

Referring also to is an example of a GUI for selecting settings or parameters for saving and restoring collaborative applications to a selected earlier time in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. The GUI may include a feature such as a menu dropdown list or similar feature for selecting or choosing applications that may be tracked or recorded and saved for restoration in the future to a selected earlier time as described herein.

The GUI may also include a feature for selecting a time interval between different saving or capturing procedures or occurrences. The state or content of the application may be continuously tracked recorded and saved or the state or content may be saved at selected time intervals to save processing overhead and file storage capacity if appropriate or needed under the circumstances.

The GUI may additionally include a feature for selecting or choosing a retention duration or time period or number of days a saved state or content of an application is stored. The retention duration may be set to overwrite the earliest saved state when the allotted memory space or storage facility becomes full.

The GUI may further include a feature for selecting the granularity or amount of detail of the state or content of the applications to be recorded or captured and saved. All details of the state of the application may be saved or only selected features such as for example only text.

The GUI may also include other features such as feature for selecting other parameters related to saving the state or content of the application and feature for selecting parameters related to restoring the state or content of each of the applications at a selected earlier time.

Returning to in block the content or state of each chosen application or collaborative application may be recorded or tracked and stored as the user uses the collaborative applications in their normal way. The content or state of each application may be recorded tracked and stored based on selected parameters as previously described. The state or content of each collaborative application may be stored on the user s computer memory on an on line database on a server or other storage device or facility that may be associated with the user s computer system or may be online and accessible over a network as described herein.

A continuous cross application state with collaboration text of each collaborative application may be saved. For example a user may be viewing a document in a word processing application with a team of others and using a chat session to keep notes. A record of the time when comments are entered into the chat and the state of the word processing document may be recorded or saved i.e. the page that is being viewed the snapshot of the content the state of comments or highlights added to the document etc. may be saved or recorded. This set of recorded snapshots of collaboration context may be stored in such a way that the user may view what occurred in the context of the collaboration when restored to this earlier time at a later time. To answer a question such as why was paragraph 2 added to page 5 of the document the user can scroll back using a mechanism such as a slide bar on a timeline as described herein or other mechanism to scroll back through the collaboration context recording. When the user reaches the section that shows page 5 of the document being edited the user can also view the contents of the chat session at that selected point in time. That chat may potentially help the user to understand why the paragraph was added.

In block a GUI may be presented for restoring the applications in response to the user selecting a restore feature. The restore feature may be an icon menu item or other mechanism for activating the restore function.

In block a mechanism may be presented to the user for restoring each application to a selected earlier time. The mechanism may permit selection over a continuum of time over which each of the chosen collaborative applications has been saved. For example the mechanism may be a timeline or similar arrangement. The timeline may be presented along with a moveable or slidable restore bar that may be slid along the timeline for selecting an earlier time to which the collaborative applications may be restored. Each collaborative application may be restored to the selected earlier time selected by the user to thereby result in the collaborative environment s context at that selected earlier time. Examples of a timeline and slidable restore bar will be described in more detail with reference to and .

In block each application restored to a selected earlier time may be presented to the user. Each application may be restored to the state or content of the application at the selected earlier time corresponding to the time of the position of the slidable restore bar on the timeline selected by the user. The user may also operate a button or other feature that may be labeled Restore or similar label identifying the features function in order for the method or system to restore the applications to the selected earlier time and to present the content or state of each application to the user on a computer display or other output device.

The chosen collaborative applications may be simultaneously invoked and brought back to the save state at the time corresponding to the selected earlier time position of the restore bar on the timeline.

The restored applications may be at a reduced size or minimized condition in order to permit a representation of all restored chosen applications on the display or other device. As described in more detail herein the restore bar or other feature may include a mechanism to permit selection of an application for the selected application to be maximized or expanded in size for viewing. The restore bar feature or other feature may be clicked on or otherwise operated to minimize the selected application to permit another application to be maximized or the maximized application may be automatically minimized in response to another restored application being maximized. As described in more detail herein the restore bar may also include a feature or an indication of the number of applications that may be restorable and or that have been restored to the selected earlier time.

In another embodiment selection tabs may be provided for selecting a particular application or applications for viewing when all restored applications are not able to be effectively presented on the display or other device.

The GUI may also include an indication of the number of applications that may be stored or have been restored or both. In one embodiment the indication of the number of applications may include a size of the slidable restore bar . For example the restore bar may have a width sized to correspond to the number of collaborative applications and . As illustrated in the restore bar has a predetermined width corresponding to the two restored applications and and the restore bar in has another predetermined narrower width corresponding to the one restored application . If there were more than two restorable or restored applications the restore bar may been wider than that illustrated in .

The GUI may also include a button that may be labeled Restore or the like. The Restore button may be operated by the user after the restore bar has been positioned to the desired or selected time to which the applications and are to be restored to start the process for restoring the applications and to the selected earlier time.

The state or content of the collaborative applications similar that previously described may be recorded and saved in a storage device on the processing device or server. In another embodiment the recorded applications may be stored in a database accessible online or via a network .

A user of the saving and restoring applications feature may use a computer system to access the processing device or server and module for saving and restoring applications. The computer system may include a processor to control operation of the computer system and a file system memory or similar data storage device. An operating system applications and other programs may be stored on the file system for running or operating on the processor . A web or Internet browser may also be stored on the file system for accessing the processing device or server via the network for saving and restoring applications or tools as described herein. The network may be the Internet an intranet or other private or proprietary network.

The computer system may also include a display a speaker system and one or more input devices output devices or combination input output devices collectively I O devices . The I O devices may include a keyboard pointing device such as a mouse disk drives and any other devices to permit a user such as user to interface with and control operation of the computer system and to access the module or system for saving and restoring applications. The display may present the GUIs such as the exemplary GUIs illustrated in A B and and other information related to the features described herein. The I O device may also present GUIs and other information.

In accordance with an embodiment a module for saving and restoring applications may be stored on the file system of the computer system and operable on the processor to perform the operations described herein. The module may be in lieu of the module on the processing device or the module may perform some of the features and operations described herein and the module may perform other features and operations described herein.

This saving and restoring features described herein are different from backup applications such as APPLE TIMEMACHINE in that the present invention is capable of tracking the state or content of multiple applications at the same time and then restoring their states simultaneously to save processing overhead and file storage capacity. Additionally the present invention provides restoring multiple chosen collaborative applications to the selected earlier time as selected by the user thereby resulting in the collaborative applications or collaborative environment s context at the earlier time being presentable. The view of the synchronization of the original context between the applications or collaborative applications is thus restored to the selected earlier time. In contrast backup recovery applications only serve to view a single application s state at a point in time. The present invention provides a significant difference in a collaborative environment as each application provides content or context to the environment or conversation. APPLE and APPLE TIMEMACHINE are trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. in the United States other countries or both.

The flowcharts and block diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of embodiments of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to embodiments of the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of embodiments of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of embodiments of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand embodiments of the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

Although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein those of ordinary skill in the art appreciate that any arrangement which is calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown and that embodiments of the invention have other applications in other environments. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the present invention. The following claims are in no way intended to limit the scope of embodiments of the invention to the specific embodiments described herein.

