---

title: Method and apparatus for controlling movement of cursor
abstract: A method and a device for controlling cursor movement is disclosed. The cursor movement control device comprises an input unit that accepts the cursor movement commands from the user, a first display unit that displays a screen including said cursor, a graphical user interface unit that determines the selected region on said screen and a cursor movement control unit that calculates said cursor movement in said selected region. In this way, the present invention provides a method and a device for controlling cursor movement requiring only minor action from the user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08619026&OS=08619026&RS=08619026
owner: 
number: 08619026
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20101223
---
The present application is a continuation of prior PCT Application No. PCT KR2009 003459 filed on Jun. 26 2009 which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention is related to an interface more specifically to a method and an apparatus for controlling the movement of a cursor.

Today s mobile phones PDA PC IPTV Internet Protocol Television etc. offer a variety of graphical user interfaces. In the case of PC particularly a great number of operations are performed by manipulating a cursor through an input by use of a mouse.

With the improved functionalities of mobile phones PDA and IPTV it has become possible to provide the PC level of interface with the mobile phones PDA and IPTV.

The graphical user interface for IPTV is often operated by use of a remote control. However the button input of the remote control is more inconvenient in moving the cursor than the mouse. In order to move a cursor that is located on one side of a display to the opposite side the user has to experience the inconvenience of holding down a button on the remote control. While it is possible to move the cursor quickly to a target with the mouse the remote control requires the user to wait until the cursor arrives at the target since the remote control can move the cursor at a predetermined speed only. Although it would take a shorter time if the moving speed of the cursor were made faster it would impose another problem that minute cursor movements at the target are not possible.

As display devices support higher resolutions the distance that the cursor travels in the PC has increased by far. As a result the user is required to operate the mouse in a greater range of movement. Although it can be configured that the traveling distance of the mouse is proportionally increased with the moving speed of the mouse this causes a problem that the accuracy of cursor operation using the mouse becomes deteriorated.

The present invention provides a method and an apparatus for controlling the movement of a cursor by use of a selection area.

An aspect of the present invention features an apparatus for controlling the movement of a cursor that includes an input unit configured to receive a command to move a cursor from a user a first display unit configured to display a screen including the cursor and a graphical user interface a graphical user interface unit configured to set a selection area in the screen and a cursor movement controlling unit configured to make a computation for the movement of the cursor in the selection area.

Another aspect of the present invention features a method of controlling the movement of a cursor in a software platform that can set selection areas in a screen and provide selection area information for setting the selection areas. The method includes a receiving the selection area information from the software platform b assessing a cursor area through the selection area information and determining whether the cursor escapes the cursor area c selecting a movement area from one of the selection areas according to the determination of the movement area determining unit and d compensating the position of the cursor to the movement area. The cursor area is a selection area in which the cursor is positioned and the movement area is a selection area to which the cursor is to move.

The present invention provides a method and an apparatus that can control the movement of a cursor with a small movement of a user.

Since there can be a variety of permutations and embodiments of the present invention certain embodiments will be illustrated and described with reference to the accompanying drawings. This however is by no means to restrict the present invention to certain embodiments and shall be construed as including all permutations equivalents and substitutes covered by the ideas and scope of the present invention.

The terms used in the description are intended to describe certain embodiments only and shall by no means restrict the present invention. Unless clearly used otherwise expressions in a singular form include a meaning of a plural form. In the present description an expression such as comprising or including is intended to designate a characteristic a number a step an operation an element a part or combinations thereof and shall not be construed to preclude any presence or possibility of one or more other characteristics numbers steps operations elements parts or combinations thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical terms and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as how they are generally understood by those of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. Any term that is defined in a general dictionary shall be construed to have the same meaning in the context of the relevant art and unless otherwise defined explicitly shall not be interpreted to have an idealistic or excessively formalistic meaning.

Moreover while some embodiments will be described in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings identical elements will be given the same reference numerals regardless of the figure number and any redundant description of the identical or corresponding elements will not be repeated. Throughout the description of the present invention when describing a certain known technology is determined to evade the point of the present invention the pertinent detailed description will be omitted.

The cursor to be described hereinafter refers to a graphical user interface such as a mouse pointer of a PC that can point and operate a graphical user interface object displayed on a screen.

Referring to the apparatus for controlling the movement of a cursor includes a first display unit a graphical user interface unit a cursor movement controlling unit an input unit and a second display unit .

The first display unit is a functional unit that displays a screen for providing visual information to a user.

The graphical user interface unit generates and updates a graphical user interface of the apparatus for controlling the movement of a cursor. For example the graphical user interface unit causes the cursor to be displayed on the screen of the first display unit and receives a cursor position from the cursor movement controlling unit to update the position and display the cursor. Moreover the graphical user interface unit sets a selection area which is an area where the cursor can be positioned. For example the graphical user interface unit can set a control e.g. a button control in a graphical user interface that can receive an input of the cursor as the selection area. Moreover by providing a module e.g. API Application Programming Interface that can set the selection area based on the coordinates of an application a location configured by an application developer among locations where an application that can be operated in the apparatus for controlling the movement of a cursor is displayed can be set as the selection area. The graphical user interface unit can set center point coordinates of a selection area for a control that can receive the input of each cursor as a default. The graphical user interface unit can also provide a module e.g. API that can separately set the center point coordinates for the selection area. The selection area in accordance with the present embodiment will be described later with reference to .

The cursor movement controlling unit makes a computation for the movement of a cursor in the selection area. For example the cursor movement controlling unit compensates the coordinates for the movement of the cursor in the selection area that is configured by the graphical user interface unit . The cursor movement controlling unit will be described later with reference to .

The input unit is a means for receiving a command of the user s cursor movement. The input unit can be a mouse a remote control or a touch pad. For example the input unit can generate operation information based on the user s mouse operation and transmit the operation information to the graphical user interface unit .

The second display unit is a functional unit that displays a separate screen from the first display unit . It shall be apparent that the second display unit can be a partial screen of the first display unit .

Moreover in case the input unit is implemented as a separate device such as a mobile phone or a remote control from the apparatus for the movement of a cursor the second display unit can be included in the separate device as a screen or a touch screen of the remote control or the mobile phone.

Referring to the cursor movement controlling unit includes a mode switching unit a selection area receiving unit a movement area determining unit a cursor position compensation unit and a replica screen providing unit .

The mode switching unit switches a mode when an input signal for a particular shortcut key is received from the graphical user interface unit . The mode can be a general mode or a control mode. In the general mode the cursor movement is controlled regardless of the selection area just like a general cursor movement. In the control mode the cursor position is moved and controlled in the selection area only. As the mode switching unit switches to the control mode after receiving the input signal for a particular shortcut key from the graphical user interface unit the mode switching unit sends a control mode request signal to the selection area receiving unit . The control mode request signal is a signal requesting that functions of the selection area receiving unit and the movement area determining unit are carried out. In other words in the general mode the selection area receiving unit and the movement area determining unit may not carry out their functions.

Once a mode switching signal is received from the mode switching unit and the mode is switched to the control mode the selection area receiving unit receives selection area configuration information from the graphical user interface unit . That is the selection area receiving unit can receive selection area information from the graphical user interface unit the selection area information including the range and center coordinates of a region configured as the selection area in a screen to be outputted on the display device. The movement area determining unit is inputted with the selection area configuration information from the selection area receiving unit . In addition the movement area determining unit is inputted with the coordinates of a current cursor from the graphical user interface unit . Subsequently the movement area determining unit makes reference to the selection area configuration information to determine whether the cursor is located in the selection area. The movement area determining unit periodically determines whether the cursor is located in the selection area and sends a movement area request signal to the cursor position compensation unit when the cursor is moving out of the selection area. The movement area request signal includes the coordinates and selection area configuration information of the current cursor.

The cursor position compensation unit compensates the position of the cursor according to the movement area request signal. For example the cursor position compensation unit compensates the coordinates of the cursor in the movement area request signal and sends the compensated coordinates to the graphical user interface unit such that the cursor moves to a nearest selection area among selection areas located on a line extended from a perpendicular line to a border line of a nearby selection area that passes through the coordinates of the current cursor.

Moreover in case the cursor is positioned outside the selection area when the mode is changing from the general mode to the control mode after the selection area receiving unit receives the mode switching signal from the mode switching unit the cursor can be controlled to a nearest center among the centers of the selection areas.

The replica screen providing unit extracts the selection area only in a displayed screen and provides a screen in which the extracted selection area is combined replica screen hereinafter . The replica screen is sent to the second display unit through the graphical user interface unit .

Referring to and a log off screen of an operating system installed in a PC is illustrated in . An input is actually made using the cursor in areas and . Therefore the selection areas can be set as areas and to which input can be made using the cursor.

In case the selection areas are successively arranged with a specific distance or closer in between like areas and a plurality of selection areas can be recognized as one selection area as shown in selection area . For example if there are consecutive selection areas and each of the selection areas has its width and height that are smaller than a predetermined size the consecutive selection areas can be combined until the combined widths and heights become the predetermined size or greater and recognized as one selection area. In other words the selection area receiving unit can recognize the selection areas that are smaller than the predetermined size as a selection combined with adjacent selection areas.

In an application is indicated as a selection area in an active window. Input can be made using the cursor in areas to which can be set as selection areas. In the case of an application a separate graphical user interface such as can be provided in the application and can be inputted using the cursor in addition to a graphical user interface provided by the operating system. The operating system can provide a module that can set a selection area and allow a developer to set and develop the selection area within the application.

In the description hereinafter the cursor will be located at three different positions . The three positions are located at border lines of selection areas cursor area hereinafter at which the current cursor is located. In case the cursor moves from position and away from the border line the movement area determining unit determines that the position of the cursor is out of the selection area generates a movement area request signal and sends the movement area request signal to the cursor position compensation unit .

The cursor position compensation unit computes a virtual line that is perpendicular to the border line of the selection area in which the cursor at position was located and selects a nearest selection area among selection areas through which this line passes as a selection area movement area hereinafter to which the cursor will be moved. Then the cursor position compensation unit compensates the position of the cursor to the center point of the selected selection area sends the coordinates of the compensated cursor to a platform and controls the platform to ultimately move the cursor.

In case the cursor moves from position and away from the border line the cursor position compensation unit computes a virtual line that is perpendicular to the border line of the selection area of position like the case of position and selects a nearest selection area among selection areas through which this line passes as a movement area to which the cursor will be moved. In the case of position since there is no selection area on this line the position of the cursor is not compensated from the current selection area to another selection area but compensated to keep the cursor from moving away from the current selection area. That is if the cursor is moved from the coordinates x y of position to x 1 y 1 coordinates by input of an input device e.g. mouse touch pad etc. the input for moving in the x axis direction is excluded and the position of the cursor is compensated to x y 1 coordinates.

If the cursor moves from position and away from the border line the cursor position compensation unit carries out the same steps as position and the coordinates of the cursor are compensated to position and the compensated coordinates are sent to the platform.

In the description hereinafter the cursor will be located at three different positions . The three positions are located at border lines at which the current cursor is located. Each of the selection areas in includes a center point . Referring to In case the cursor moves from position and away from the border line the movement area determining unit determines that the position of the cursor is out of the selection area generates a movement area request signal and sends the movement area request signal to the cursor position compensation unit .

The cursor position compensation unit computes a virtual line that passes position from center point of the selection area at which the cursor was located and selects a nearest selection area among selection areas through which the computed line passes as the movement area to which the cursor will be moved. Therefore the cursor position compensation unit selects the selection area including center point that is located on this line as the movement area.

The cursor position compensation unit compensates the coordinates of the cursor to the coordinates of center point of the selection area to be moved to and sends the compensated coordinates of the cursor to the platform.

In case the cursor moves from position and away from the border line the cursor position compensation unit computes a virtual line that passes position from center position of the selection area in which the cursor at position was positioned like the case of position and selects a nearest selection area among selection areas that are located on the computed line as the movement area to which the cursor will be moved. In the case of position since there is no selection area on this line the position of the cursor is not compensated from the current selection area to another selection area but compensated to keep the cursor from moving away from the current selection area. That is if the cursor is moved from the coordinates x y of position to x 1 y 1 coordinates by input of an input device e.g. mouse touch pad etc. the input for moving in the x axis direction is excluded and the position of the cursor is compensated to x y 1 coordinates.

If the cursor moves from position and away from the border line the cursor position compensation unit carries out the same steps as position and the coordinates of the cursor are compensated to position and the compensated coordinates are sent to the platform.

Although it has been described with reference to that the movement area is moved according to the position of the current cursor it is possible to select the movement area to which the cursor is moved according to a weighted value configured for each of the selection areas. Here it is possible that the selection area information includes the weighted value corresponding to each of the selection areas. The weighted value can be set as a default value in the operating system or set by the developer through API. For example the cursor position compensation unit that received a movement area request signal from the movement area determining unit analyzes the weighted value assigned to each of the selection areas. The cursor position compensation unit selects a movement area that has the greatest weighted value in the analyzed weighted value among the selection areas having the weighted value that is less than or equal to the weighted value of the cursor area. In case there are selection areas having the same weighted value that is less than or equal to that of the selection area one of the selection areas having the same weighted value is selected through the steps described with reference to .

Moreover it is possible that the movement area determining unit selects the movement area to which the cursor is moved in a reverse order of the weighted value. Here the movement area determining unit can move the cursor in the forward order or reverse order of the weighted value based on the border through which the cursor moves away from the selection area.

Referring to the cursor movement controlling unit receives selection area information and cursor coordinates .

The cursor movement controlling unit determines whether the cursor is positioned in a selection area .

If the cursor is positioned in the selection area the cursor movement controlling unit repeats step .

If the cursor is not positioned in the selection area the cursor movement controlling unit selects a movement area to which the cursor will be moved . The steps for selecting the movement area have been described with reference to and thus will be omitted.

Then the cursor movement controlling unit sends compensated coordinates of the cursor to the graphical user interface unit so that the coordinates of a center point of the movement area are compensated as the coordinates of the cursor.

Illustrated in are three selection areas. Hereinafter each of the three selection areas will be referred to as a first selection area a second selection area and a third selection area respectively. The replica screen providing unit generates a replica screen by combining one or more selection areas. The replica screen providing unit removes columns and rows of pixels that do not pass the selection areas in the original screen and adjusts the size of the screen to fit a specific resolution.

For example the replica screen providing unit removes the columns that the selection areas are not positioned. That is all pixels between the left most column and the column positioned on line are removed. Then the replica screen providing unit removes pixels between the column positioned on line and the column positioned on line and removes pixels between the column positioned on line and the right most column.

Afterwards the replica screen providing unit removes all pixels between the upper most row and the row positioned on line . The replica screen providing unit removes all pixels between the row positioned on line and the row positioned on line . Then the replica screen providing unit removes all pixels between the row positioned on line and the lower most row.

Once the replica screen providing unit removes the rows and columns of pixels that do not pass the selection areas in the screen of the selection areas can be arranged as shown in .

The replica screen providing unit can adjust the size of the screen in which the selection areas area arranged as shown in so that the replica screen have a predetermined resolution. For example the replica screen providing unit can reduce or enlarge the screen in which the selection areas are combined so that the resolution of the combined screen and the predetermined resolution of the replica screen are identical.

The cursor position compensation unit in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention can compensate the position of the cursor by configuring a logical pixel i.e. a unit of movement of the pixel according to the size of the selection area that is the smallest among the selection areas included in the original screen. For example the logical pixel is configured in the same length as the shortest horizontal length pixel of the selection areas included in the original screen. Also the vertical length of the logical pixel is computed through the same process as the horizontal length. For example if the logical pixel is 2 3 the cursor position compensation unit compensates the position of the cursor to move at a time by 2 pixels in the horizontal direction and by 3 pixels in the vertical direction. Since the pixel generally moves by one pixel each time the speed of cursor movement can be changed according to the size of the selection area by using the logical pixel.

Although the above logical pixel has been described to configure the shortest horizontal length and the shortest vertical length of a selection area among the selection areas included in the original screen as the horizontal length and the vertical length of the logical pixel respectively it shall be appreciated by those who are skilled in the art that it is possible to configure a value that is smaller than the shortest horizontal length of the selection area and a value that is smaller than the shortest vertical length of the selection area as the horizontal length and the vertical length of the logical pixel respectively.

Furthermore the graphical user interface unit can cause the display of the center point and the border of each of the selection areas on the screen of at least one of the display unit and the second display unit . Alternatively the center point and the border of each of the selection areas may be displayed translucently or not displayed.

Here the first display unit and the second display unit can be independent from each other in displaying translucently displaying or not displaying the center point and the border of the selection areas.

Hitherto some embodiments of the present invention have been described. There can be a large number of embodiments other than the described embodiments in the claims of the present invention. It shall be understood by anyone of ordinary skill in the art to which the present invention pertains that there can be a number of permutations without departing the technical features of the present invention. Therefore the described embodiments shall be understood in descriptive perspectives not in restrictive perspectives. The scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims not in the above description and all differences in the equivalent scope shall be understood to be included in the present invention.

