---

title: Apparatus, and associated method, for obtaining mobility device information
abstract: An apparatus and associated method is provided for facilitating a search for user information in a multiple-domain communication scheme. A search is initiated by way of a web-based console. A search request causes search inquiries to be made to each of the domains of the multi-domain communication scheme. And, search results are provided also by way of a web-based console.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08918420&OS=08918420&RS=08918420
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08918420
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100702
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 327 697 filed Apr. 25 2010 the content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates generally to a manner by which to search and to retrieve user mobility information located at any of multiple disparate domains. More particularly the present disclosure relates to an apparatus and an associated method by which to search for and to obtain the information using a web based search console.

The search initiation and response review by way of a web based search console eliminates the conventional need for an administrator separately to access each of multiple administrative consoles associated with corresponding multiple domains.

Advancements in communication technologies have permitted the development and deployment of many new types of communication systems having communication capabilities providing increased communication convenience and improved communication services. Improved communication mobility is amongst the communication improvements provided in various of such new communication systems. And for many access to mobile communication systems through which to communicate both voice and data has become essential for business and other activities. Data messaging such as that provided by way of e mail messaging and the like provides message senders and recipients with near instant communication capabilities as well as also store and forward messaging capabilities. A sender is able to send a message at the sender s convenience and the recipient of the message is able to receive and review the message at the recipient s convenience whether immediately or at some subsequent time.

Business and other enterprises sometimes provide enterprise personnel with mobile communication devices herein referred to at times as mobile stations to provide enterprise personnel with messaging and other communication capabilities. In a large enterprise organization large numbers of enterprise personnel are sometimes provided with the mobile stations.

An enterprise administrator is sometimes encharged with maintaining operability of the mobile stations implementing communication policies and generally otherwise overseeing and controlling communication operations at the enterprise.

Particularly when the enterprise is large the enterprise might utilize multiple domains in which different enterprise personnel are associated with different ones of the domains sometimes at physically disparate locations. And sometimes some enterprise personnel might be associated with more than one domain. The term domain is used herein to refer to a collection of resources including and relating to a group of mobile stations which have in common an administrative management system or a configuration database therefor.

A communication scheme that includes multiple domains provides additional challenges to an administrator. For instance when searching for information regarding the mobile station used by enterprise personnel the administrator has to access and to search at the appropriate domain of the multiple domains in order to obtain the needed information. In conventional operation to do so the administrator is required to log into the appropriate administration service console and then locate the needed information. This existing need however becomes unwieldy and cumbersome particularly when the administrator might not know in which domain to search for the information and a large number of domains are employed by the enterprise. In these situations the administrator might be required to resort sequentially to log into successive domains and search for the information prior to logging into the appropriate administration service console associated with the appropriate domain.

It is in light of this background information related to mobile communication systems that the significant improvements of the present disclosure have evolved.

The present disclosure accordingly advantageously provides an apparatus and an associated method by which to search and to retrieve user mobility information located at any of multiple disparate domains.

Through operation of an embodiment of the present disclosure a manner is provided by which to search for and to obtain the information using a web based search console.

In one aspect of the present disclosure the search initiation and response review performed by way of the web based search console permits the information to be obtained without requiring that a system administrator separately access administrative consoles associated with domains at which the information might be located.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a simple and centralized mechanism is provided that provides searchability into all of the domains of a multiple domain implementation.

In another aspect of the present disclosure a web based search console is provided. The search console provides for searching by a system administrator or other authorized party to search for user information in every domain utilized by the enterprise. Searching is performed without requiring the administrator or other party to log on to individual administration service consoles associated with each of the separate domains in order to obtain the user information.

In another aspect of the present disclosure once the location of the information has been found e.g. by locating the domain location at which the identity of the associated enterprise personnel is located the information is retrieved without requiring the administrator or other party to log into an administration service console associated with the domain in which the information is located.

In another aspect of the present disclosure the administrator or other authorized party is further permitted to complete administrative actions related to the user information by way of the console. The console provides a link whose selection redirects the administrator to the specific administration service of the domain where the user information is located.

In another aspect of the present disclosure various technologies are leveraged including IIS ASP and administration API Application Processing Interface . ASP.NET web pages run on an enterprise deployed IIS web server. ASP.NET web pages make API calls to an administration API of each of the domains that are configured for the enterprise. The configuration is completed by way of a WEB.CONFIG file in the same folder as the ASP.NET web page files on the IIS server. In another aspect of the present disclosure the ASP.NET web pages make API calls to the administration API in each of the enterprise configured domain. The configuration is completed by way of a WEB.CONFIG file located e.g. in the same folder as the ASP.NET web page files on the IIS server. Although specific commercial products such as the IIS web server and the ASP.NET application framework are mentioned herein the subject matter of the present disclosure is not limited to such products and other web servers and application frameworks could also be used with appropriate adjustments to employ analogous features of such servers and frameworks.

In another aspect of the present disclosure authentication is provided. The authentication is e.g. active directory authentication or administration service authentication. Additionally in one implementation a static set of credentials is configured so that credentials need not be requested when browsing to the address of the ASP.NET web pages.

The administrator or other authorized party is thereby able to obtain user information located at any of a plurality of disparate domains by way of a console at a remote workstation. The information is obtained without requiring the administrator or other party to log on to an administration service console of each of the domains in which the information might be located. More efficient control and simplified administration is thereby provided.

In these and other aspects therefore an apparatus and an associated method is provided for facilitating a search at disparate domains for user information. A search request detector is configured to detect a search request for user information. A searcher is adapted to receive indications of the search request detected by the search request detector. The searcher searches each of the disparate domains for the user information.

Turning first therefore to a communication system shown generally at comprises a data network such as an enterprise intranet to which functional communication entities are connected in communication connectivity. The entities of the communication system are functionally represented and are positionable at any physical location including distributed across a plurality of physical locations. The entities are also implemented in any desired manner including hardware software and combinations thereof.

The example communication system shown in includes an IIS Internet Information Services web server and an example work station . The work station is representative of a work station that an enterprise administrator or other party utilizes to monitor and control an enterprise communication system. The work station is operable in generally conventional manner to invoke applications here including a browser application . The administrator or other party invokes the browser application pursuant to operation of an embodiment of the present disclosure here to access the IIS web server and to receive console displays therefrom.

The communication system also includes a plurality of disparate domains such as a first domain a second and an Nth domain . The domains are representative of different domains any of which are associated with mobile stations operated by enterprise personnel viz. users of the mobile stations. The communication system illustrates an example mobile station here shown to be connected to a Radio Access Network RAN that is here indirectly connected to the data network . The mobile station is associated with any of the domains and and potentially more than one of the domains.

The first domain includes an application programming interface API an administration service AS an application device servicing system and a user and configuration database . Generally the aforementioned elements of the first domain are operatively connected to one another directly or indirectly for communications therebetween. The second domain includes analogous entities that is an API an AS an application device servicing system and a user and configuration database . And analogously the Nth domain includes an API N an AS N an application device servicing system N and a user and configuration database N.

Information associated with the mobile station is stored at a user and configuration database and N depending upon with which of the domains that the mobile station is associated. As noted previously in conventional operation if an administrator or other party needs to obtain user information that is information that is associated with the mobile station the administrator is required to log into each of the administration services of each of the domains at least until the desired information is obtained. To obviate this conventional requirement the web server or other entity includes the apparatus of an embodiment of the present invention. The elements of the apparatus are functionally represented implementable in any desired manner including hardware software and combinations thereof. Functional elements of the apparatus are here shown to include a search request detector a searcher and search result detector and a search result forwarder . In the example implementation the apparatus is implemented as an API Application Programming Interface and ASP.NET web pages of which the pages are representative. In operation the administrator or other party at the work station is provided with a web based search console that provides for searching of needed user information located at any of the domains 1 N. The user related information is of a type permitting searching of the needed information. The information comprises for example a user name an email address an IT policy a messaging server etc. The input of this information at the work station is provided to the web server and detected by the search request detector . In response the detector causes the searcher to search the domains for the information. In the example implementation API calls are made to appropriate web services API components of the APIs of the domains 1 N. The user and configuration data bases are caused to be accessed and the needed information if stored thereat is returned to the web server. Responses to the searches are detected by the search result detector which in turn provides the received search result response or responses to the forwarder . In turn the forwarder forwards on the received information for display at the work station.

In the example implementation the administrator or other party upon receipt of information that at least identifies the location at which user information is stored i.e. at which of the domains that the user information is located the administrator is permitted to take further action to retrieve additional information without logging into the specific administration service console in the domain. Thereby information search and retrieval is carried out more conveniently and quickly than conventionally permitted. The request for additional information comprises for instance an administrative services request and the search request detector further functions as an administrative services request detector and the searcher further functions as a forwarder for forwarding the request for additional information to the appropriate domain.

Turning next to a process shown generally at is representative of signaling generated during operation of an embodiment of the present disclosure. The signaling is representative of the signaling generated during the operation of the example system shown in . Signaling generated in other communications can analogously be represented.

The process commences at the work station when an administrator or other party initiates operation here by requesting commencement of search procedures indicated by the request search block . A message is caused to be sent indicated by the segment to the web server . The web server responds indicated by the segment to provide a search console to the work station to be displayed thereat pursuant to browser operation of the work station. The search request indicated by the block is also generated pursuant to operation of a browser application at the work station. The console start block is representative of the display at the browser application of the search console.

The administrator or other party by way of the console at the work station generates a search request indicated by the segment that is delivered to the web server . In response to the search request the web server initiates searches indicated by the blocks to the different domains. In the example implementation three domains are represented and three search blocks search blocks and N are shown in . ASP. NET web pages make API calls to the APIs of the domains as indicated by the segments and N. The APIs in turn access the respective application device servicing system and associated databases indicated by the segments and N. Responses are generated and returned indicated by the segments and to the respective APIs . And the APIs in turn return the search results to the web server . The web server then forwards on indicated by the segment the search results to the work station . The results are displayed indicated by the block . illustrates an example start console representative of a console displayable at a work station at which an administrator or other authorized party is positioned to operate an embodiment of the present disclosure. The console is representative of a start console at which the administrator or other party enters information relating to a search request here at a search field . The entered information comprises search criteria such as a user name display name user identification an email address an IT policy a messaging server identity etc. In an embodiment the administrator user may optionally identify the type of search criteria using an appropriate selection widget which my be a drop down or any other appropriate selection widget.

Presently preferred embodiments of the disclosure and many of its improvements and advantages have been described with a degree of particularity. The description is of preferred examples of implementing the disclosure and the description of examples is not necessarily intended to limit the scope of the disclosure. The scope of the disclosure is defined by the following claims.

