---

title: Guide bore electrical machining methods
abstract: A method of electrically machining a hole in a conductive work piece may include providing a tool having a conductive tool head in close proximity to the conductive work piece. A voltage may be applied across the tool head and the work piece to create an electric field in the hole at the tool head. The electric field may be asymmetric with respect to the centerline of the hole. The orientation of the hole may be altered by removing material from the work piece using the asymmetric electric field.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08663450&OS=08663450&RS=08663450
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08663450
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101119
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

The invention relates in general to machining and in particular to the electrical machining or drilling of holes.

Rotating cutting drills may be used to drill blind holes or to enlarge existing holes. The aspect ratio of a hole is the ratio of the length or depth of the hole to the diameter of the hole. As the aspect ratio of a hole becomes large removal of chips machined off of the work piece may become a principal concern.

One method to improve precision on rotating drills may be to focus upon achieving a stiff cutting tool or employing mechanical guides within the hole to maintain precision. A second approach may be to incorporate an active guide within the work piece. The active guide may further complicate chip removal and may be challenging to employ for very small diameter holes.

Energy beam machining methods may include laser beam machining and electron beam machining. These methods may be used to drill a line of sight hole. These methods are generally limited to shallow holes due in part to debris interfering with the line of sight path as the work piece material is removed by the energy beam.

Certain applications may present challenges for known drilling methods. For example using known methods it may not be viable to drill a 12 mm diameter hole that is 6 meters deep with a blind hole aspect ratio of 500. Holes of this type may be used for example as cooling channels in railguns. Because of the difficulty in drilling such holes railgun designs may use welded or mechanically bound rails to allow cooling channels to be machined prior to joining the parts K. Jamison et al. Thermal Loading and Heat Removal from a Sequentially Fired Railgun IEEE Transactions on Magnetics vol. 31 no. 1 pp. 314 319 January 1995 . High aspect ratio holes may also be used to route power sensor data or telecommunication transmission lines through structural elements.

Challenges for known drilling methods may include 1 the transmission of rotating mechanical cutting power through a long slender shaft 2 the loss of cutting tool directional control through a long slender shaft 3 work piece material removal through a long slender hole and 4 the interaction of mechanical cutting loads and related disturbances upon the application of control forces.

Various electrical machining methods are known. Electrical machining methods may include electrochemical machining ECM shaped tube electrolytic machining STEM electro stream ES electrical discharge machining EDM and electrical discharge wire cutting EDWC . G. Bellows and J. Kohls Drilling without Drills Special Report 743 March 1982 review some of the known electrical machining processes. Bellows and Kohls Special Report 743 is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

Hole generally includes an overcut. The overcut results in hole having a cross section that is larger than the cross section of tubular portion . Thus entire tool may be inserted in hole with sufficient annular clearance between tool and hole . An electrical machining fluid EMF may circulate from tank through an EMF processor to tool holder through hollow interior of tool into hole in work piece and then back into tank as shown by the arrows in . Processor may process EMF by for example filtering removing sludge temperature conditioning etc.

In the case of ECM EMF may be an electrolytic fluid and hole in work piece may be created by anodic dissolution. In the case of EDM EMF may be a dielectric fluid and hole in work piece may be created by erosive dissolution caused by spark discharges. In the case of electrochemical discharge machining ECDM EMF may be a semidielectric fluid and hole in work piece may be created by a combination of anodic and erosive dissolution. A discussion of ECDM appears in Coteathacek over a et al Electrochemical discharge machining of small diameter holes Volume 1 Supplement 1 pp. 1327 1330 2008 which is expressly incorporated by reference herein.

For use in ECM tool may be manufactured with a layer of electrically insulating material around conductive tube . Of course at the head of tool at least a portion of tube must not be covered with insulating material so that an electric circuit may be established between tube and work piece . Insulating material may prevent unwanted anodic dissolution of sides of hole . In EDM or ECDM insulating material may not be required around tube .

In electrical machining processes tool holder may provide one of more of the following functions 1 axial translation feed of tool rotation of tool about its longitudinal axis 3 distribution of electrical current to tool for anodic and or erosive dissolution of work piece and 4 channeling of EMF to tool . See for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 590 204 issued to O Connor on Jun. 29 1971.

As hole machined in work piece increases in depth the side walls of hole may guide tool on its intended path through work piece . Accurately drilled holes may be limited in their depth by the compliance and straightness of tool . As the aspect ratio of hole becomes large the propensity of tool to bend may increase thereby causing a loss of precision in drilling.

For example if a simple round tool of a given diameter is considered a cantilevered beam the tip deflection of the tool for a given lateral disturbance may increase as the third power of the tool length F. Beer and E. R. Johnston Jr. Mechanics of Materials McGraw Hill 1981 . Similarly torsional stiffness of a simple cantilevered tool is inversely proportional to length. Rotational deflection at the cantilever tip for a given torsional disturbance may increase in proportion to the tool length Beer and Johnston supra .

A known ECM process may be used to machine a hole in a work piece having a pilot hole . An ECM tool may include a solid conductive cylinder covered with an insulating layer . As noted before at the head of tool at least a portion of cylinder must not be covered with insulating material so that an electric circuit may be established between cylinder and work piece . Pilot hole and the annular area between tool and work piece may provide a flow path for EMF . The direction of flow may be either into or out of pilot hole .

A process akin to that of was used to enlarge a pilot bore and create a naval cannon with a five inch caliber inner diameter and a length of 270 inches. In that case the straightness of the pilot bore was relied upon to achieve the desired final gun bore centerline Wessel Electrochemical Machining of Gun Barrel Bores and Rifling Naval Ordnance Station Report No. MT 050 Louisville Ky. September 1978 .

It is an object of the invention to provide methods for electrically machining large aspect ratio holes.

One aspect of the invention is a method of electrically machining a hole in a conductive work piece. The method may include providing a tool having a conductive tool head. The tool head may be in close proximity to the conductive work piece. Voltage may be applied across the tool head and the work piece to create an electric field in the hole at the tool head. The electric field may be asymmetric with respect to a centerline of the hole. The orientation of the hole may be changed by removing material from the work piece using the asymmetric electric field.

The method may include providing an electrical machining fluid in contact with the tool head and the work piece.

Changing the orientation of the hole may include rolling the tool head. Changing the orientation of the hole may include changing a direction of the centerline of the hole. Changing the direction of the centerline of the hole may include pitching and or yawing the centerline of the hole.

The method may include determining a difference between an orientation of the hole and a desired hole orientation. Determining the difference in orientations may include determining the difference between a position of the hole centerline and a position of a desired hole centerline. The determined difference in orientations may be used to control the asymmetric electric field.

The tool head may include a centerline. Removing material from the work piece may include rotating the tool head around its centerline. Rotating the tool head may include modulating a frequency of rotation of the tool head. Rotating the tool head may include modulating the voltage across the tool head and the work piece.

The conductive tool head may have an asymmetric geometry. In one embodiment the tool head may be generally circular in section. Some embodiments of the tool head may include an external insulating layer over conductive material. Some tool heads may include a plurality of cathodes. The method may include applying a plurality of voltages across the plurality of electrodes and the work piece.

The method may include fixing the tool to a tool holder and inserting the tool holder into the hole. The tool and the tool holder may simultaneously descend into the hole as the hole is electrically machined by the tool. Hydraulic force may be applied to the tool holder to descend the tool holder into the hole.

The invention will be better understood and further objects features and advantages thereof will become more apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

A novel electrical machining process may enable the precision drilling of very high aspect ratio holes in work pieces made of conductive materials. The electrical machining process may also produce superior surface finishes and thereby enhance fatigue life. The electrical machining process may use a feedback control method to control the position of the longitudinal axis or longitudinal centerline of a hole as the hole is electrically drilled. In addition to drilling straight holes the method may be used to engineer deviations from a straight centerline. The method may also be used for small holes with maximum cross sectional chords that are a small fraction of a centimeter.

The method may be used for example to drill gun bores in cannons and to drill cooling and flow channels in cannons. For example the integral mid wall cooling channels of the gun tube disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 837 921 issued to Rinaldi et al. may be achieved by drilling. Blind holes may be drilled accurately into the gun tube. The blind holes may for example change their radial distance from the gun bore center line with axial position. Elliptical or kidney shaped holes may provide decreased stress concentrations in the load axis of interest to maximize fatigue life. Electrical machining may also provide a method for drilling integral cooling channels within the rails of a railgun.

Advantages of the novel electrical machining method may include 1 the accurate placement of cooling channels in optimal locations 2 the drilling of cooling channels that deviate from a straight line for example to follow the contour of the cannon or enable external cooling at a location such as the origin of rifling relative to other locations 3 the drilling of flow passages for applications such as bore evacuator holes commonly subject to erosion and fatigue and spindles and 4 drilling gun bores with improved concentricity.

The electrical machining process may achieve accuracy through feedback control. Conceptually the dynamic system of the work piece and the drilling apparatus may be considered to exist in various quantitative states during drilling. The size of the actual hole as it is drilled e.g. depth and diameter the position of the hole e.g. the centerline position axial position and direction at the blind end the position and feed rate of the tool within the hole the current density distribution at the cutting end of the tool the temperatures of various components and the chemical composition of the electrolyte in the case of electrochemical machining ECM may all be examples of states of the dynamic system. Inputs that may be used to control the dynamic system may include the flow rate direction and temperature of the electrolyte for ECM the voltage of the power supply and the tool feed rate.

Outputs of the dynamic system may be measurable variables related to performance of the dynamic system. For example in ECM the state of the chemistry of the electrolyte as it radially traverses the face of the hole may be of interest but the state of the chemistry of the electrolyte may not lend itself to measurement. Often states that may not be easily measured may be inferred from outputs or variables that may be more easily measured.

Feedback control of a dynamic system may be achieved with three elements. One element may be controllability C. T. Chen Harcourt Brace College Publishers 1984 . A system may be controllable if for any given state of the system at one point in time it would be possible to achieve a desired state at a finite future time using possible control inputs. Control inputs may provide control to steer the future state of the system in the desired direction. In the case of drilling a hole the trajectory of the centerline of the hole as it is drilled may be steered.

A second element of feedback control of a dynamic system may be observability C. T. Chen supra . A system may be observable if the state of a system may be inferred by monitoring the output of the system. Measurements may provide information to estimate the present state of the system.

A third element of feedback control of a dynamic system may be a control law W. L. Brogan 2. Prentice Hall 1985 . A control law may be a method to determine how inputs should be applied to the system based upon measured outputs to meet a desired objective.

The electrical machining process may measure the progress of holes as they are drilled observability and establish a means to achieve controllability of a guide bore system. Methods for monitoring the drilling of a hole within a work piece are known. X ray imaging for example may be used to monitor the geometry of a hole as it is drilled within a work piece See for example Cutler and Pendleton Real Time Field Radiography of an Operating Jet Engine Using a Portable Linear Accelerator High Energy Services Corp. HESCO Redwood City Calif. http www.hescoxray.com white docs jet.pdf . Ultrasonics may have the ability to monitor electrodeposition an inverse process to ECM with a reported accuracy within 8 m J. Frankel M. Doxbeck and A. Abbate Computerized Ultrasonic System For On Line Determination Of Chromium Thickness During Plating Of Tubes Benet Technical Report ARCCB TR 93001 January 1993 .

The electrical machining process may use a novel means to apply control inputs to the dynamic system of the work piece and the drilling apparatus. Mechanical drilling may require the application of control forces to cutting tools. Electrical machining may control the progression of the centerline of the hole by the application of controlled changes to the electric field between the tool and the work piece. Controlled changes to the electric field may be used to control the direction of drilling thereby decreasing or eliminating reliance upon the tool bending stiffness to achieve precision drilling. In ECM the electric field may affect the current density that conveys electric charge to the work piece through the electrolyte to thereby dissolve work piece material. In electrical discharge machining EDM the electric field may affect the electrical discharges that erode the work piece material.

The centerline of a hole may be progressively drilled out by the head of the tool. The position of the tool head as it dissolves or erodes and removes work piece material may closely follow the centerline of the hole. Therefore real time measurement of the hole size and location may reveal the position of the front face of the tool head in space. Trajectory terminology such as roll pitch and yaw may be used to describe the direction of the progressing tool head as it is drilling through the work piece see for example H. Baruh McGraw Hill 1999 .

A symmetric paradigm for electrical machining is schematically shown in along with an Cartesian coordinate system having x y and z axes. Using right hand Cartesian coordinates for example the positive x axis may be forward into hole and may represent the centerline C of hole . The positive y axis may be to the right as shown in and the positive z axis may be up orthogonal to the view of .

Tool may include tool head disposed in hole in work piece . Tool head may include conductive tube covered with insulation . Conductive tube may include hollow interior as a conduit for EMF . Tool may be supported by tool holder . Roll may be rotation of tool head about the x axis. Pitch may be rotation of tool head about the y axis. Yaw may be rotation of tool head about the z axis. Roll pitch and yaw of tool head may be controlled states. The feed rate of tool head dx dt may be the time rate of change of the forward position of tool head and may be a controlled state.

Pitch and yaw of tool head may be achieved by conforming tool head to the side walls of hole as hole is electrically drilled. Roll of tool head may be controlled by tool holder . Existing tool design methods may be employed to ensure an adequate egress route for flow of EMF as tool head conforms to the side walls of hole . Helical flutes may be incorporated into insulator see for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 880 745 . Controllability of the location or orientation of hole as it is machined may be achieved by deviating centerline C of hole as tool head is fed into work piece at a feed rate. For holes that are not round control of roll may allow the hole cross section to rotate or twist as tool head is fed into work piece or may allow tool head to be intentionally held straight .

The electrical machining process may achieve controllability by identifying control inputs that may be applied to favorably distort the electric field at tool head . In ECM distortion of the electric field at tool head may cause a distortion of the electric current flow through the electrolyte and thus a distortion of the dissolution rate of work piece . In EDM distortion of the electric field at tool head may cause a distortion of the electrical discharges from tool head to work piece and thus a distortion of the erosion rate of work piece . Eroding work piece with EDM effectively dissolves work piece . In general the rate of erosion or dissolution in work piece may increase in areas of increased electric field strength. Other influences on the dissolution rate such as EMF flow rate temperature and conductivity may be ascertained by those skilled in the art of cathode tool design Rajurkar et al. New Developments in Electrochemical Machining Keynote Paper Annals of the CIRP vol. 48 no. 2 pp. 569 579 1999 .

Distortion of the electric field at tool head may cause desired changes in pitch and yaw of centerline C of hole and in some cases may cause desired changes in roll of the hole cross section. The controllability of tool head may also be affected by the stiffness of tool . In general if tool has a higher bending stiffness it may be more likely to bind up or be unable to conform to a hole with a curved centerline. If tool is relatively straight and stiff it may require only small feedback control corrections to maintain an intended straight path. If tool is less stiff it may be more appropriate for holes with other than straight centerlines. One exception to this general principle is a uniformly curved hole which may be machined with a stiff tool having the same uniform curvature as the hole for example.

A control law may infer the rotational state of tool head from observed measurements. Inferring the rotational state may become challenging due to increased mechanical compliance of tool as the aspect ratio of the hole becomes large. Fortunately in contrast to mechanical drilling cutting torques may not accompany electrical machining methods. When electrically boring a high aspect ratio hole the rotational flexure of a long tool may be well behaved. Thus the rotational state of the tool head may be inferred even if a torsional bending mode of a long tool creates a discrepancy between the actual rotation at the tool head and the rotation measured at the tool holder. Output sensors and control logic may be used to infer such a state.

Secondly asymmetry in the electric field at the tool head and therefore asymmetry in the current density at the tool head may produce a roll dependent magnetic field in the work piece. This may be particularly useful for long narrow work pieces. For example in a railgun rail a cannon tube or a structural steel beam magnetic field sensors may be placed along the work piece near the axial location of the blind hole face. Observability may not require continuous measurement of rotational position. Discontinuous identification of position analogous to an automotive timing light used to infer engine flywheel position relative to spark timing may suffice.

Thirdly as mentioned previously methods for monitoring the drilling of a hole within a work piece are known. X ray imaging and ultrasonics may be two such methods.

Given a measured position or orientation of the hole face and a desired centerline trajectory it may be possible to determine the desired correction for both pitch and yaw for the particular axial location along the x axis where the hole face is being dissolved. The desired corrections for pitch and yaw may be related to the measurement of the error in units of length e.g. m. A control law may be formulated to feedback the error measurement to the electrochemical machining system. The control law may be used to control the asymmetric electric field at the tool head.

An asymmetric field at the tool head may be created in different ways. One way to create an asymmetric electric field at the tool head is to use a tool head having an asymmetric geometry. show a tool having a tool head with a generally circular cross section. Tool head may include a conductive tube cathode of uniform thickness. Tube may be covered with an insulation layer . The thickness of insulation layer may vary circumferentially for example as shown in . Hole in work piece may have a centerline C. Tube may have a centerline D. Tool head may have a centerline E coincident with centerline C of hole . Centerline E of tool head may be the centerline of a cylinder defined by the outer circumference of insulation layer . Centerline D of tube may be offset from centerline E of tool head and centerline C of hole as shown.

A controlled yaw deflection of the centerline C of hole in the y direction may be applied to hole using tool head having variable thickness insulation layer . The controlled yaw may result in a change in direction of centerline C of hole . The geometric asymmetry of tool head may increase the electric field volts per meter where conductive tube cathode is closer to the wall of work piece . Increasing the electric field may increase the current density and dissolution rate of work piece where tube is closer to wall . The asymmetric electric field produced by tool head is asymmetric with respect to centerline C of hole .

The asymmetric electric field created by tool head of may be used to control the direction of centerline C of hole . Control methods may include rotation of tool head about the x axis centerline C of hole . Rotation of tool head may produce a time averaged symmetry in the machining operation See for example Pandey et al. Effect of Electrode Rotation on the Accuracy of Hole Reproduction in Electrochemical Drilling Precision Engineering vol. 6 no. 1 pp. 17 23 January 1984 and Coteathacek over a et al. supra .

One method to control yaw and pitch of centerline C is to modulate the frequency of rotation of tool head . If the position sensors of hole indicate that an increase in yaw is required i.e. move centerline C in the positive y axis direction then the roll angular velocity about the x axis of tool head may be decreased when the portion of tool head with the thinner layer of insulation is near the side of work piece that requires greater material removal. Taken to its logical extreme rotation or roll may be ceased to maximize increase of yaw.

Another method to control yaw and pitch of centerline C is to maintain constant roll constant angular velocity about the x axis while modulating the voltage across tool head and work piece . The voltage may be increased when the thin insulator side of tool head is near the side of work piece that requires greater material removal. This voltage increase may preferentially increase the rate of material removal and achieve a greater level of material removal with each rotation of tool head about the x axis.

A small gain positive or negative may be applied to the measured error in the centerline C eand ein the y axis and z axis directions respectively . For the constant roll method the voltage to tool head may include a constant voltage and a pair of sine wave voltages. The sine wave voltages may both have the same frequency as the roll of tool head . One sine wave voltage sin may be phase aligned with the y axis. That is sinmay have its peak value when tube of tool head is closest to wall in the y axis direction. Similarly sinmay be phase aligned with the z axis direction. A proportional gain may be multiplied e.g. mV m of error in each axis and summed with the constant voltage. The determination of the gain may be case dependent and may be solved by those skilled in the art. Net voltage reversal of the tool should be avoided to prevent tool wear. More advanced control laws may also be applied.

The guide bore control laws may be applied in concert with feedback control laws that may govern the feed rate and axial progression of tool head through work piece . For example a direct current voltage bias may be applied to increase or decrease the rate of dissolution of the material of work piece for a given axial feed rate of tool head . The force applied to feed tool head into hole may also be controlled. Such control methods for axial feed rate are known in the art. In general reduction in axial feed rate may allow greater controllability of hole trajectory by increasing the duration of exposure to controlled electric field distortions. This may allow more modest electric field distortions and may avoid exceeding electric field limitations. For example in ECM a voltage that is too great may arc through the electrolyte.

Control of the electric field produced by tool head may be analogous to that of tool head of . The electric field produced by tool head at wall may be less where slot is located. Similarly in tool head the electric field at wall may be less where the insulating layer is thicker and conductive tube is further from wall .

A tool head may include a plurality of cathodes. The cathodes may be insulated from each other. Power supply may provide relative voltage control between the plurality of cathodes. A tool head with multiple cathodes may operate with or without rotation about the x axis roll .

Centerlines C and E of hole and tool head may be coincident. The centerline D of a hypothetical tube containing the disjointed cathode segments may be coincident with centerlines C and E. Increasing the voltage to cathode located in the positive y axis direction and decreasing the voltage to cathode in the negative y axis direction may increase yaw.

Many geometric variations are possible to create an asymmetric electric field with respect to the centerline of the tool head and the hole. show a circular tool head having a conductive tube and insulating layer . At the face of tool head a portion of tube extends axially beyond insulating layer and has a circumferentially varying thickness. The electric field produced by tool head may be greater to the right side as viewed in .

Proof of concept tests were conducted using tool heads and of and A C respectively and work pieces made of gun steel cut from the chamber wall of a used M198 towed howitzer cannon.

Using tool head of with no roll and constant voltage a hole . mm in diameter and 150 mm deep was machined. After machining the work piece was sawed in half such that the machined hole was longitudinally bisected. Measurements of the machined hole showed that the centerline location at the bottom of the hole was offset 1.0 mm from the centerline at the top of the hole. The offset was in the direction of the thicker portion of conductive tube cathode of .

In the second test a hole of 13.5 mm diameter and 50 mm deep was machined using a conventional symmetric tool head such as tool head in . Then using tool head of with no roll and constant voltage an additional 10 mm of depth was machined. After machining the work piece was sawed in half such that the machined hole was longitudinally bisected. The centerline location at the bottom of the hole 60 mm depth was offset 1.3 mm from the centerline at 50 mm depth. The offset was in the direction of the thicker portion of conductive tube cathode of .

Because the electric field at the tool head may control the orientation of the hole being machined reliance on mechanical properties of the entire tool length may not be necessary in contrast to the prior art. is a schematic view of a tool having a tool head and an upper tool portion connected to tool head . Tool head may be used to create an asymmetric electric field with respect to centerline C of hole . The outer diameter F of tool head may be larger than the outer diameter G of upper tool portion . In contrast to the prior art upper tool portion need not provide the mechanical guidance for centerline C of hole . Indeed a lower stiffness of upper tool portion may be desirable to allow tool distortion and compliance to accommodate the desired hole centerline when drilling other than straight holes.

Smaller diameter G of upper tool portion may also allow greater clearance between upper portion and hole which may avoid binding of tool when machining other than straight holes. Similarly reduced diameter upper tool portion for tool head may prevent binding of tool in roll when machining non round holes with a desired twist.

In an alternative method to electrically machine a hole an annular opening trepanning may be machined in a work piece using for example the tool head of . Trepanning will result when the overcut is sufficient to allow the tool to pass through the annulus but the tool does not fully dissolve or erode the center core of the work piece. Trepanning may reduce the EMF processing and electricity required to electrically machine a hole. Should one wish to remove the center core of material of the work piece tool head may be modified by removing from at least one of the cathodes the interior layer of insulation adjacent the center opening.

In the case of larger diameter holes and in view of the reduced reliance upon conventional tool holder for mechanical guidance the functions of tool holder may be provided in whole or in part within the hole itself. is a schematic view of a tool holder positioned in hole in work piece . Tool may be connected to tool holder . Tool holder may include a cathode power conduit a fluid inlet conduit for EMF and a fluid outlet conduit for EMF . Flexible lines such as cables and tubing may be connected to tool head . A cathode power cable may connect to cathode power conduit and to a controller . An EMF inlet tube may be connected to conduit and to an EMF supply line. An EMF outlet tube may be connected to fluid outlet conduit and to an EMF return line. A tool holder control and power cable may be connected to tool holder and to controller .

Positioning of tool holder may be achieved for example by a hydraulic power unit that may supply hydraulic fluid via hydraulic fluid conduit to the volume between the top of tool holder and a top seal plate at the entry of hole . A tool holder seal for example a piston ring may provide a seal for hydraulic fluid above tool holder and EMF below tool holder . Tool and tool holder may thus crawl through hole as it is machined. Tool holder may control the feed rate and rotational motion of tool . Tool and tool holder may not rely on mechanical forces or torques created by a far removed tool holder for example tool holder in located outside of the machined hole . Tool holder may react to the small torques between itself and the tool through friction with and conformance to the wall of hole .

A proposed earth to orbit mechanical launcher Bundy et al. Sizing a Slingatron Based Space Launcher AIAA Journal of Propulsion and Power vol. 18 no. 2 pp. 330 337 March April 2002 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 032 584 issued to Tidman on Apr. 25 2006 would have a 0.64 meter diameter bore that is 45 000 meters long yielding an aspect ratio in excess of 70 000. Such a large bore may easily accommodate a tool holder such as tool holder . And advances in microelectromechanical systems may enable the design of increasingly small tool holders for insertion in smaller machined holes.

In some embodiments of the invention twist or roll may be applied to a non circular hole. is a side view of a tool head for machining a circular hole with a keyway or slot feature. is a sectional view along the line B B of and C is a sectional view along the line C C of . Tool head may include a plurality of cathodes and . Cathodes may be insulated from each other with insulating material . The interior of tool head may be hollow. Cathodes and may be used to create the keyway or slot feature.

As seen in at the upper part of tool head cathodes may be disjointed segments of a circle surrounded by insulation . As one progresses axially toward face of tool head cathodes may begin to angle or flare radially outward as seen in . The gradually increasing radial extent of cathodes may create a tapered nub . Nub may appear as a triangle in the side view of .

If no twist or roll were applied to tool head a circular hole with a key way or slot may be machined. On the other hand the key way or slot may be twisted clockwise as tool head is positioned in by imparting a higher voltage to cathode than to cathode . If roll or twist is applied to tool head then the geometry of nub may be subject to limitations caused by binding of tool head in the hole. Tool head may be used to machine a bore with a rifling groove for example. A plurality of keyways or slots may mimic a rifling broach.

In conventional EDM and ECDM processes the cathode tool may not be insulated. When using the inventive method with an EDM or ECDM process insulation around the cathode may be required to avoid dissolution or erosion of the hole above the tool face. The tool head embodiments and methods disclosed herein may be used in for example ECM EDM and ECDM processes.

Numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

