---

title: Method for selecting files on a portable electronic device
abstract: A method of selecting files and a portable electronic device configured to perform the method are provided. In accordance with one embodiment, there is provided a method of selecting one or more files on a portable electronic device, comprising: displaying a file selection user interface screen on a display of the portable electronic device, the file selection user interface screen comprising a slider comprising a reference bar and an indicator moveable within the reference bar; selecting one or more files in accordance with a position of the indicator; and attaching the selected files to an electronic message.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08751967&OS=08751967&RS=08751967
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08751967
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101215
---
The present disclosure relates to portable electronic devices and in particular to a method of selecting files on a portable electronic device.

Electronic devices including portable electronic devices have gained widespread use and may provide a variety of functions including for example telephonic electronic messaging and other personal information manager PIM application functions. Portable electronic devices include for example several types of mobile stations such as simple cellular telephones smart telephones wireless personal digital assistants PDAs and laptop computers with wireless 802.11 or Bluetooth capabilities.

Portable electronic devices such as PDAs or smart telephones are generally intended for handheld use and ease of portability. Smaller devices are generally desirable for portability. A touch sensitive display also known as a touchscreen display is particularly useful on handheld devices which are small and have limited space for user input and output. The information displayed on the touch sensitive displays may be modified depending on the functions and operations being performed.

Selecting multiple documents using a graphical user interface GUI provided by a portable electronic device is a time consuming and cumbersome process. For example if multiple files are to be attached to an electronic message such as an email message a user must individually select and attach each file to the electronic message. Accordingly there remains a need for an improved method of selecting files for attachment to an electronic message.

For simplicity and clarity of illustration reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. Numerous details are set forth to provide an understanding of the embodiments described herein. The embodiments may be practiced without these details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail to avoid obscuring the embodiments described.

The present disclosure provides a method of file selection which seeks to provide an easier and faster approach to attaching multiple files to an electronic message based on user defined criteria. The method is particularly advantageous when attempting to select a small group of files from a larger group of files such as when attempting to select a few digital pictures from hundreds or thousands of digital pictures stored on an electronic device. In one example embodiment a slider user interface configured by one or more file parameters such as file type and date is used to select and display a list of files such as digital picture files to attach as an attachment to an electronic message. A user can then unselect files to remove the files from the list of files to attach as an attachment to an electronic message. Alternatively unselected files may remain in the list of files while selected files are indicated using highlighting or other suitable method of visual indication.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a method of selecting one or more files on a portable electronic device comprising displaying a file selection user interface screen on a display of the portable electronic device the file selection user interface screen comprising a slider comprising a reference bar and an indicator moveable within the reference bar and selecting one or more files in accordance with a position of the indicator.

In accordance with another embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a method of selecting files on a portable electronic device comprising displaying a file selection user interface screen on a display of the portable electronic device the file selection user interface screen comprising a slider comprising a reference bar and an indicator moveable within the reference bar selecting one or more files in accordance with a position of the indicator and attaching the selected files to an electronic message.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the present disclosure there is provided a portable electronic device comprising a display and a processor coupled to the display wherein the processor is configured for performing the methods described herein.

The present disclosure generally relates to electronic devices which may be a portable electronic device in some embodiments. Examples of portable electronic devices include handheld electronic devices wireless electronic devices such as pagers cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants wirelessly enabled notebook computers and so forth. The portable electronic device may also be a portable electronic device without wireless electronic capabilities such as a handheld electronic gaming device digital photograph album digital camera or other device.

A block diagram of an example of a portable electronic device is shown in . The portable electronic device includes multiple components such as a processor that controls the overall operation of the portable electronic device . Electronic functions including data and voice electronic are performed through an electronic subsystem . Data received by the portable electronic device is decompressed and decrypted by a decoder . The electronic subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . The wireless network may be any type of wireless network including but not limited to data wireless networks voice wireless networks and networks that support both voice and data electronic. A power source such as one or more rechargeable batteries or a port to an external power supply powers the portable electronic device .

The processor interacts with other components such as Random Access Memory RAM memory a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD with a touch sensitive overlay coupled to an electronic controller that together comprise a touch sensitive display one or more actuators one or more auxiliary input output I O subsystems a data port a speaker a microphone camera short range electronic subsystem and other device subsystems . User interaction with a graphical user interface GUI is performed through the touch sensitive overlay . The processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller . Information such as text characters symbols images icons and other items that may be displayed or rendered on a portable electronic device is displayed on the touch sensitive display via the processor .

To identify a subscriber for network access the portable electronic device uses a Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module SIM RUIM card for electronic with a network such as the wireless network . Alternatively user identification information may be programmed into memory .

The portable electronic device includes an operating system and software applications or programs that are executed by the processor and are typically stored in a persistent updatable store such as the memory . Additional applications may be loaded onto the portable electronic device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range electronic subsystem or any other suitable subsystem . The applications include a slider user interface application which provides a slider user interface for selecting files. The slider user interface application may be used for selecting files for attachment to an electronic message or possibly other uses. The slider user interface application may be part of a particular application such as an email messaging application or other messaging application or an application programming interface API accessible by several different applications which may include a number of messaging application and possibly other applications. The slider user interface provides a mechanism for automatically or semi automatically selecting multiple files based on a number of selection criteria.

A received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download is processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor . The processor processes the received signal for output to the display and or to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may generate data items for example e mail messages which may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem . For voice communication the overall operation of the portable electronic device is similar. The speaker outputs audible information converted from electrical signals and the microphone converts audible information into electrical signals for processing.

The touch sensitive display may be any suitable touch sensitive display such as a capacitive resistive infrared surface acoustic wave SAW touch sensitive display strain gauge optical imaging dispersive signal technology acoustic pulse recognition and so forth as known in the art. A capacitive touch sensitive display includes a capacitive touch sensitive overlay . The overlay may be an assembly of multiple layers in a stack including for example a substrate a ground shield layer a barrier layer one or more capacitive touch sensor layers separated by a substrate or other barrier and a cover. The capacitive touch sensor layers may be any suitable material such as patterned indium tin oxide ITO .

One or more touches also known as touch contacts or touch events may be detected by the touch sensitive display . The processor may determine attributes of the touch including a location of a touch. Touch location data may include an area of contact or a single point of contact such as a point at or near a centre of the area of contact. The location of a detected touch may include x and y components e.g. horizontal and vertical components respectively with respect to one s view of the touch sensitive display . For example the x location component may be determined by a signal generated from one touch sensor and the y location component may be determined by a signal generated from another touch sensor. A signal is provided to the controller in response to detection of a touch. A touch may be detected from any suitable object such as a finger thumb appendage or other items for example a stylus pen or other pointer depending on the nature of the touch sensitive display . Multiple simultaneous touches may be detected. The centre of the area of contact of each touch is commonly referred to as the touch point or centroid. It will be appreciated that during a touch event the touch point moves as the object detected by the touch sensitive display moves.

The actuator s may be depressed by applying sufficient force to the touch sensitive display to overcome the actuation force of the actuator . The actuator may be actuated by pressing anywhere on the touch sensitive display . The actuator may provide input to the processor when actuated. Actuation of the actuator may result in provision of tactile feedback.

In yet other embodiments a conventional display may be provided instead of the touch sensitive display . In such embodiments input may be provided via one or more control keys a keyboard or keypad navigation device or any combination thereof.

The auxiliary I O subsystems could include other input devices such as one or more control keys a keyboard or keypad navigational tool input device or both. The navigational tool may be a depressible or clickable joystick such as a depressible optical joystick a depressible trackball a depressible scroll wheel or a depressible touch sensitive trackpad or touchpad. The other input devices could be included in addition to or instead of the touch sensitive display depending on the embodiment.

The auxiliary I O subsystems may include a memory card reader for receiving and reading a removeable memory card including but not limited to a non volatile memory card such as a Secure Digital SD card or Secure Digital High Capacity SDHC card. The removeable memory card may be used for auxiliary storage in addition to the memory for storing among other things user data such as media files. The removeable memory card may store for example image files audio files video files or other media file. The image files audio files and video files may be data recorded on the portable electronic device using the microphone and or camera depending on the type of media file.

A flowchart illustrating one example embodiment of a method of selecting files on the portable electronic device in accordance with one example embodiment of the present disclosure is shown in . The method may be carried out by software such as the slider user interface application executed for example by the processor . Coding of software for carrying out such a method is within the scope of a person of ordinary skill in the art provided the present disclosure. The method may contain additional or fewer processes than shown and or described and may be performed in a different order. Computer readable code executable by the processor to perform the method may be stored in a computer readable medium such as the memory . The method in the described embodiment is implemented by an email messaging application for composing and sending email messages and is used for selecting one or more files for attachment to an email message.

In other embodiments the method may be used by other messaging applications for composing and sending other types of electronic messages including but not limited to an SMS Short Message Service messaging application for composing and sending SMS text messages a Multimedia Messaging Service MMS messaging application for composing and sending MMS text messages an instant messaging IM application for composing and sending IM messages a peer to peer or device to device messaging application for composing and sending peer to peer messages or a personal information manager PIM capable of composing and sending a number of different types of electronic messages.

The portable electronic device displays a file selection user interface comprising a file list including one or more selectable files and a slider user interface on the display in response to received input . The file selection user interface is displayed or invoked by the email messaging application in response to the received input. The file selection user interface may be part of the messaging application or an APT as described above. The received input may be input received by the portable electronic device to add an attachment to an email message. The input may be a command or action to add an attachment to an email message already under composition in an email message composition user interface screen for example by selecting an Add attachment or similar command from a menu or selecting an appropriate onscreen button. Alternatively the input may invoke the email message composition user interface screen to start the composition of a new email message.

The files in the file list are typically user data files which may be of any type including but not limited to electronic messages notes calendar items which may be collectively referred to as PIM items image files such as digital pictures audio files such as songs video files applications word processing documents spreadsheet documents PDF documents etc. The files may be organized into databases each containing files of the same type each associated with the same application or both. Alternatively the files may be stored in unorganized form. The files may be stored in the memory in a memory card received in a memory card reader of the portable electronic device or both.

Each of the files has one or more file parameters sometimes referred to as metadata associated with it which may include but is not limited to one or more of the following Name Size Type Date Modified Date Created Date Accessed Location Source Attributes Status Owner Author Title Subject Category Pages Comments Copyright Artist Album Title Year Track Number Genre Duration Bit Rate Protected Camera Model Date Picture Taken Dimensions Episode Name Program Description Audio sample size Audio sample rate Channels Company Description File Version Product Name Product Version and Keywords. The particular types and structure of the file parameters and the manner in which the file parameters are stored is not relevant to the present disclosure and so has not been described herein.

The file list may be a list of all files stored in the memory and or memory card or other external electronic storage of the portable electronic device or a subset of those files. The file list may be displayed for example in the form of i a simple list of file names ii a detailed file list including the file name and at least some of the other file parameters of the respective files iii thumbnails iv icons or v tiles. The simple list and detailed list may each include a pictorial representation of the type of file or associated application along with the file parameters. The thumbnails icons and tiles each include a pictorial representation of the type of file or associated application and optionally a file name and or other file parameters associated with the respective files. The file list is typically presented as a table of rows and columns with each row in the table representing a respective file. Columns in the table are used to show file parameters such as file names. A header with descriptive labels describing the file parameters in the columns may be provided in some embodiments. Other formats for presenting the file list are possible.

The file list may be sorted in accordance with the file parameters associated with the respective files for example by file name size type date created etc. When the entire file list does not fit on the display of the portable electronic device one or more scroll bars for navigating the file list may be provided. Typically a vertical scroll bar is provided for navigation through the files in the file list when the entire file list does not fit on the display i.e. navigating the rows of the table . A horizontal scroll bar is typically provided for navigation through the file parameters associated with the respective files when the entire file list does not fit on the display i.e. navigating the columns of the table . The scroll bars allow navigation through the file list to browse through the files and the file parameters associated with the respective files.

The slider user interface is configured for selecting one or more files in the file list. As understood to persons skilled in the art a slider user interface is a graphical widget provided by the GUI of the portable electronic device for managing user configurable data or information such as the files being selected for attachment to an email message. The widget displays data or information which is manageable or changeable by the user in a window or box presented by the GUI. The widget may provide a single interaction point for the manipulation of a particular type of data or information such as the files being selected for attachment to an electronic message or other purpose. Typically all applications on the portable electronic device which allow input or manipulation of the particular type of data or information invoke the same widget. For example each application which allows the user to select files for attachment to an electronic message may utilize a shared widget for file selection. Widgets are building blocks which when called by an application or the operating system process and manage available interactions with the particular type of data or information.

The slider user interface which is referred to in the following description as a slider comprises a reference bar also known as a slider bar defining a range of values and a moveable or otherwise adjustable indicator having a position which corresponds to a value in the range of values defined by the reference bar or subset of values in the range of values defined by the reference bar. The reference bar has a scale based on a particular type of file parameters e.g. type time date author location . The range of values is bound by endpoint s which may be maximum and minimum values. The scale may be a linear scale also known as a uniform scale in which equal distances along the reference bar correspond to equal numerical values e.g. time date . For example a time slider may be based on hours and have a 24 hour scale with 0 hours at one end and 24 hours at the opposite end or could be based on increments of a several hours e.g. 4 hours . Alternatively the scale may be a non linear scale or may be a set of numerical values or non numerical values e.g. type location author etc. . The set may be ordered or non ordered. For example when the basis of the slider is time the values of the slider could be the last 1 3 6 12 hours etc. When the basis of the slider is date the values of the slider could be the current day yesterday 2 days 5 days 7 days last week month etc. When the basis of the slider is location the value of the slider could be work home or specified locations defined by the user e.g. Toronto Niagara Falls etc. . When the basis of the slider is source the value of the slider could be local memory or removeable memory e.g. removeable memory card .

The reference bar may include lines located at various points along its length to indicate the possible positions of the indicator and or text labels located at various points along its length to indicate a value or approximate value at different positions of the indicator. The slider may be oriented horizontally or vertically on the display . The lines and or labels may be located at each of the possible positions of the indicator or may be located at only a subset of the possible positions of the indicator.

The value of a slider defines a value or range of values for a particular file selection criterion for selecting files. The file selection criterion typically has the value or range of values which corresponds to the position of the indicator along the reference bar. However the value or range of values may be defined by the position of the indicator and a position of one of the end points of the reference bar of the slider. For example with a time slider divided into a number between 0 and 24 hours of increments of 4 hours the value of the slider may be the range of 0 to 4 hours when the indicator is positioned at 4 hours.

A user or application may set a value of a slider by re positioning the indicator. A user may set the value for example by selecting e.g. touching or clicking and moving the indicator i.e. selecting and dragging the indicator from an initial position to a new position using for example the touch sensitive display or navigational tool. Alternatively a user may set the value by selecting a location on reference bar for example the touch sensitive display button or key in a keyboard or keypad. In some embodiments selecting the reference bar at a location on either side of the indicator incrementally moves the indicator a predetermined amount in the relevant direction. This may be performed for example by touching the touch sensitive display at the appropriate location or moving and clicking the navigational tool at the appropriate location.

The number of sliders available and the basis of the sliders may be configurable for example by a user. The basis for a slider could be based on any type of file parameter. The basis for evaluating a date slider may be set as the date created date modified date accessed or date picture taken. Similarly the basis for a time slider may be set to as time created date modified date accessed or date picture taken.

In some embodiments a slider user interface may be limited to controlling all documents of the same type i.e. image files document files spreadsheet etc. and the scale of the slider is a time or date for selecting files of a particular type with a time or date with a value or within a range specified by the position of the indicator. When the indicator is positioned by the user the portable electronic device selects all files of the particular type e.g. images based on the position value of the indicator e.g. all images taken in last 1 hour . In some embodiments the user may unselect any undesired files.

Multiple sliders may be provided for multiple file selection criteria with each slider being used to control the value of a particular file selection criterion. In one example embodiment a first slider for a first file selection criterion and a second slider for a second file selection criterion are provided. The first file selection criterion may be file type and the second file selection criterion may be temporal characteristics such as a date time created or date time last accessed viewed. The second file selection criterion is applied only to files which match the first file selection criterion. When multiple sliders are provided the sliders may be oriented horizontally or vertically on the display . Positioning the indicator allows files to be selected in accordance with a particular value or range of values of one or more particular file selection criterion or criteria. The file particular selection criterion or criteria may be fixed or configurable by the user.

When multiple sliders are used the basis for a second or further slider may be based on the basis of the first slider and or other previous sliders. Similarly the basis for a second or further slider may be based on the value of the first slider and or other previous sliders. For example when the first slider is a file type slider set to JPEG and the second slider is a time slider the basis for the time slider may be time picture taken or last time picture viewed etc. Accordingly the basis applied by multiple sliders may be interdependent.

In some embodiments two indicators may be provided by a single slider to define a range within the values of the reference bar. The two indicators may be used to set a value of the slider to a range of values defined by the respective position of indicators. For example a first indicator of a time slider may be located at 4 hours and the second indicator may be located at 12 hours to select files in the file list that were created modified or viewed between the last 4 to 12 hours.

In some embodiments the other selection means may be provided in addition to the sliders including but not limited to selection boxes or radio buttons which allow a user or application to select a particular file selection criterion that does not readily lend itself to a slider.

Referring now to example file selection user interface screens in accordance with examples of the present disclosure will be described. illustrates a first user interface screen having one slider for defining a single file selection criterion. The slider comprises a file list comprising a number of files and a header . The slider includes a reference bar and an indicator which in the shown embodiment is depicted as a button or handle. An Attach onscreen button for attaching selected files to the email message is also provided in the shown example. In the shown example the file selection criterion of the slider is file type and four files ABC 123 Cat and Dog are shown in the file list . The slider has five positions along the reference bar each corresponding to a different file type a DOC file such as a Word document file having the file extension .doc a JPEG file such as an image file having the file extension .jpg a PDF document having the file extension .pdf an XLS file such as a Microsoft Excel spreadsheet file having the file extension .xls and a bitmap image file having the file extension .bmp . Other values may be used in other embodiments e.g. values of ANY or ALL could be used to select files of any type .

In the shown example the indicator is located at the position of the JPEG file type to select files which are JPEG files. The files Cat and Dog are both JPEG files and have been selected. The files Cat and Dog have been highlighted in the shown example to indicate a file selection status of selected . The file ABC is a DOC file and the file 123 is an XLS file rather than a JPEG file. As a result these files are not selected and have not been highlighted to indicate a file selection status of unselected . The file selection status may be shown differently in other embodiments. For example in other embodiments only selected files are shown in the file list and unselected files are hidden.

In the shown embodiment file type is based on file format such as DOC files JPEG files PDF files and XLS files. In other embodiments file type may be more general for example being based on a category of the file type. In such embodiments each file format may be assigned to a category. The category assignments may be stored by the portable electronic device for example in the memory . Example categories include but are not limited to image files audio files video files electronic messages notes calendar items electronic messages notes calendar items may be collectively referred to as PIM items applications word processing documents spreadsheet documents and PDF documents.

Digital pictures are a common type of file which is attached to email messages so the ability to limit the list of files to image files or a particular type of image file such as JPEG and apply a further filter to further limit the files for example by date may be particularly advantageous in some cases for at least some users.

In the shown example the indicator of the third slider is set to ANY and the indicator of the fourth slider is located at the position of ALL to select files having any time reference and files having all authors. The result is that the file Dog is still selected as it is a JPEG file and has a September reference date as the third and fourth file selection criteria of the third and fourth sliders did not eliminate this file. The file Dog has been highlighted to indicate a file selection status of selected . The other files in the file list are not highlighted to indicate a file selection status of unselected .

The portable electronic device monitors for and detects input setting the position of the indicator of the reference bar of the slider. The input setting the position of the indicator is typically user input received via a user input device of the portable electronic device but could be input from an application such as the application invoking the file selection user interface. In some embodiments a default position of indicator of the slider may be defined in which case the input setting the position of the indicator is input varying i.e. moving the indicator from the default position to a new position. As noted above the position of the indicator of the slider defines a value for file selection criteria. That is the position of the indicator of the slider defines file selection criterion or criteria. Each file selection criterion operates as a filter which identifies files for selection. The portable electronic device determines whether input setting the position of the indicator of the reference bar of the slider has been detected .

When input setting the position of the indicator of the reference bar of the slider has not been detected the portable electronic device determines whether input to attach the selected files or otherwise associate the selected files with the email message has been detected . The portable electronic device monitors for and detects input to attach the selected files such as for example selecting of an onscreen button such as the Attach onscreen button . This input may be any suitable input such as touch input depression of a designated button or key depression of the navigation tool or other suitable input.

When the input to attach the selected files has not been detected portable electronic device again determines whether input setting the position of the indicator of the reference bar of the slider has been detected . When the input to attach the selected files has been detected the one or more selected files are attached to the email message .

When input setting the position of the indicator of the reference bar of the slider has been detected the portable electronic device identifies files for selection in accordance with the position of the indicator and the identified files are selected . This occurs automatically in response to positioning and re positioning of the indicator without user input. Files may be identified by applying file selection criterion or criteria to the file parameters of the files stored by the portable electronic device . File type may be determined at least in part by a comparison of file extensions to a mapping of file extension to file type. Files having file parameters matching the file selection criterion or criteria are identified and selected.

In some embodiments a threshold may be applied to the total number and or total size of matching files. In such embodiments the portable electronic device may request narrower or further file selection criteria from an application or user to reduce the total number and or total size of matching files. This reduces the amount of data which will be sent as an attachment or selection for other purposes. When the user is providing the file selection criterion or criteria a prompt may be displayed on the display . The method may be suspended until narrower or further file selection criteria which reduce the total number and or total size of matching files is provided. The threshold may be configurable for example by an administrator of the wireless network via IT policy messages sent to the portable electronic device or by the user.

In some embodiments a threshold may be applied to the size of the file list so that no more than a threshold number of files are displayed in the file list . The threshold may be configurable for example by an administrator of the wireless network via IT policy messages sent to the portable electronic device or by the user. This threshold may be applied in addition to or instead of the threshold applied the total number and or total size of matching files.

Selecting the files may comprise displaying an indication of the selected files on the display for example by highlighting or focussing the selected file s in the file list marking a checkbox associated with each selected file or other suitable visual indication. This occurs automatically without user input. Highlighting or focusing a file causes the appearance of the corresponding row s in the file list to be changed from a first visual state to a second visual state different from the first visual state. Changing the appearance of a row in the file list in at least some embodiments may comprise changing a colour of a background of a row in the file list the text of the row in the file list or both. Unselected files are still displayed in the file list in some embodiments such as in the examples described above with each of the selected files being shown using highlighting or other suitable method of visual indication identifying each of the selected files is provided such as a checkbox.

In other embodiments only selected files are shown in the file list whereas unselected files are hidden and not shown in the file list . This is less demanding in terms of graphics processing and so is more efficient in terms of the use of device resources. However by hiding unselected files the user is not given the opportunity to manually select files which were not selected but the user would nevertheless wish to attach to the email message. In embodiments in which only selected files are shown the file list is empty when the file selection user interface is first displayed unless a default file selection criterion is defined and applied when the file selection user interface is first displayed. The file list is re populated with matching files in response to a re positioning of the indicator.

The files in the file list may be sorted in accordance with one or more of the file selection criterion or criteria applied. For example the selected files in the file list may be sorted in descending order of the file selection criterion or criteria. The basis for sorting the file list may be configurable. For example a user may be able to select the file selection criterion or criteria applied in sorting the list and or whether the sorting in accordance with the file selection criterion or criteria is in an ascending or descending order. For example if a user selected all picture files taken within the previous 24 hours the user may be able to select whether the files in the file list are sorted in descending order starting with the most recent picture or ascending order starting with the oldest picture taken in the previous 24 hours.

In some embodiments the file selection user interface may be configured to receive and accept deselection input so that a user may unselect one or more files from the selected files in the file list by providing corresponding deselection input. This allows the user to manually unselect any files selected in the file list accordance with the file selection criterion or criteria. For example from a file list having ten select files the user may unselect two of the files so that only the remaining eight files are selected for attachment to the email message. Additionally the file selection user interface may be configured to receive and accept additional selection input so that a user may select additional files in the file list that were not automatically selected using the slider. The file selection user interface may provide selection boxes to receive the deselection input and additional selection input in some embodiments. Selection boxes provide convenient and easy to use user interface elements when combined with the slider. Other user interface elements may be provided to receive the deselection input and additional selection input in other embodiments. A selection box or other user interface element may be provided which allows a user to select or unselect all of the files within the file list .

As noted above in some embodiments a default position of indicator of the slider may be defined to automatically select files in accordance with default file selection criterion or criteria. In such embodiments the slider is invoked and initially displayed with the indicator in the default position and the files matching a default file selection criterion or criteria represented by the default position are automatically selected without input for example from a user. As a result of the default file selection criterion or criteria the file list is initially displayed with the identified and selected files highlighted in the file list in accordance with the default file selection criterion or criteria. The default file selection may occur automatically and without user input for example in response to input to add attachments to the email message.

The default position of the indicator of a slider can be repositioned for example by a user to change the file selection criterion or criteria. The repositioning of the indicator will cause the files which are selected in the file list to change resulting in a change in the files which are highlighted in the file list . When more than one slider is provided each slider may have a default position value and the indicator of each slider may be changed or repositioned to change the respective file selection criterion or criteria. Each slider indicator which is changed will cause the files which are selected in the file list to change resulting in a change in the files which are highlighted in the file list .

The default position or value of the indicator of the slider e.g. default file type selection criteria may be set by an application invoking the slider such as the email messaging application the operating system or possibly the user. For example the type of file most frequently selected by the user for attachment to email messages e.g. picture files the most common location or source of files selected by the user for attachment to email messages e.g. removable memory card may be set as default file type selection criteria. The portable electronic device may maintain file selection statistics and learn the default file type selection criterion or criteria in accordance with the file selection statistics. In such cases the default file type selection criterion or criteria may change over time.

After selecting files in accordance with the position of the indicator portable electronic device determines whether input to attach the selected files has been detected . This may be for example the selecting of an onscreen button such as the Attach onscreen button . This input may be any suitable input such as touch input depression of a designated button or key depression of the navigation tool or other suitable input. When the input to attach the selected files has been detected the one or more selected files are attached to the email message .

Next the portable electronic device monitors for and detects input to send the email message to at least one recipient such as for example selecting of an onscreen button such as a Send button not shown and sends the email message to the at least one recipient when the input to send the message is received . The input may be any suitable input such as touch input depression of a designated button or key depression of the navigation tool or other suitable input.

While the method of selecting files on a portable electronic device of the present disclosure has been described in the context of attaching documents to electronic messages the method may be used by an application other than a messaging application in other embodiments and for other purposes in other embodiments.

While the present disclosure is described primarily in terms of methods the present disclosure is also directed to a portable electronic device configured to perform at least part of the methods. The portable electronic device may be configured using hardware modules software modules a combination of hardware and software modules or any other suitable manner. The present disclosure is also directed to a pre recorded storage device or computer readable medium having computer readable code stored thereon the computer readable code being executable by at least one processor of the portable electronic device for performing at least parts of the described methods.

The present disclosure may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects as being only illustrative and not restrictive. The present disclosure intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology. The scope of the present disclosure is therefore described by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are intended to be embraced within their scope.

