---

title: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media for providing a dynamic loupe for displayed information
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer-readable media are provided for providing a dynamic loupe for displayed information of a document. The displayed information can be provided in various sub-regions of the document. Based on the position of an input relative to a particular sub-region, the loupe can be sized and positioned such that a portion of information from the sub-region is displayed in the loupe. The portion of information can be displayed using a loupe scale factor that may differ from a scale factor used for the rest of the displayed information. The loupe position can be selected such that the contents and or position of the loupe may be biased towards a particular sub-region.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08522158&OS=08522158&RS=08522158
owner: Apple Inc.
number: 08522158
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101019
---
Some electronic devices can be used to display information to a user. For example some electronic devices can display documents or other content on a display. Displayed information can be provided in one of several sizes as determined from a scale factor applied to the information. In some cases a scale factor used can be very small such that it is difficult for a user to decipher some of the displayed information. Instead of forcing a user to re scale all of the displayed information some devices can allow users to overlay a fixed size magnification tool or loupe over the displayed information so that portions of the information located in a region underneath the loupe are magnified e.g. the portions are displayed with a larger scale factor . However such loupes are generally provided without respect to the type of information they are magnifying and have a single shape e.g. a circle .

Systems methods and computer readable media for providing a dynamic loupe for displayed information are provided.

An electronic device can display information in a window of a device. For example a content view module can provide the information to be displayed. In some cases the electronic device can provide a magnification tool such as a loupe by which portions of the displayed information can be magnified. The loupe can have a variable size such that the size of the loupe may be determined from the particular portions of the displayed information being magnified. For example the electronic device can identify an input position e.g. a cursor location and identify dimensions associated with a sub region adjacent to the input position. In particular the electronic device can identify columns boxes or other sub regions of a document in which information is provided. The portions of information that are adjacent to the input position can be displayed in the loupe.

As the device detects different input positions the size of the loupe can change in addition to the particular information provided in the loupe. For example the electronic device can determine that information adjacent to a new input position is associated with new dimensions. The electronic device can then dynamically re size the loupe to correspond to the information adjacent to the new input position.

The loupe can be placed in any suitable position over displayed information. In some cases the electronic device can define a loupe position offset from the position of a detected input such that the loupe may be substantially centered with respect to a sub region in which information is displayed. As the input position moves towards boundaries of the sub region the loupe may progressively be displaced from a center of the sub region.

In some cases the electronic device can change a scale factor at which information is displayed within the loupe. For example a user can change a magnification scale factor associated with the loupe. When the scale factor of the loupe changes the loupe may be re sized to accommodate the change in scale factor. In addition the electronic device can automatically scroll displayed information in response to receiving an instruction to move a loupe past a boundary of displayed information. The particular information displayed in the loupe can correspond to the scrolled information provided underneath the loupe.

Systems methods and computer readable media for providing a dynamic loupe for displayed information are provided and described with reference to .

An electronic device can display information in one or more windows of a display. Alternatively an electronic device can display information in any other type of resizable canvas or region on a display. For the sake of simplicity however the following discussion will describe embodiments in the context of a window in which information may be provided. is a schematic diagram of modules that may be used to display information and a loupe in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Electronic device can include several modules that may be interconnected via application program interfaces APIs such that the modules can share or transfer information. In particular electronic device can include a window controller module that may be operative to control the display of content on a display. For example window controller module can define the position and size of individual windows or can establish a depth order for different displayed information.

Electronic device may include a content view module that can provide content or information for display in a window provided by window controller module . For example content view module can retrieve particular information to display to the user. The information can include for example text images videos media glyphs graphics or other content that may be displayed to a user. The displayed information can be formatted by content view module to have any suitable appearance. For example content view module can define several sub regions in a document where different portions of the information may be provided in each sub region. The sub regions can include for example columns of different sizes text boxes inset regions image boxes or combinations of these. The sub regions can have any suitable size including for example rectangles triangles circles ellipses polygons curved shapes or combinations of these. Content view module can display particular information in each sub region using any suitable scale factor where a scale factor describes a displayed size of information relative to a size of the actual information e.g. determined from a resolution or dimensions of the information . In some cases information provided in different sub regions can be provided with different scale factors such that the information in specific sub regions may be more difficult for a user to discern. Alternatively the information displayed may be provided with a single information scale factor but individual portions of the information may be smaller than other portions of the information e.g. a particular side bar or graphic may have a smaller font or scale factor than a primary text element provided in a column .

In some cases a user may wish to view a portion of displayed information using an enlarged view without changing the information scale factor of the displayed information. In such cases the electronic device can overlay a loupe or magnifying tool on the displayed information. The loupe can include a portion of information having a loupe scale factor that may be larger than the information scale factor of the displayed information. Electronic device can include loupe overlay module and loupe view module for generating a loupe and populating the loupe with a portion of the displayed information provided by content view module . Loupe overlay module can be operative to generate an overlay in which the particular portion of information is to be provided. In particular loupe overlay module can determine dimensions for the loupe as well as the position of the loupe relative to the displayed information. In some cases loupe overlay module can call content view module to retrieve the particular information to display in the loupe as loupe information and can call loupe view module to format and display the retrieved loupe information in the loupe. In this implementation content view module can receive a loupe scale factor and loupe dimensions from loupe overlay module and can determine on behalf of loupe view module the particular portion of the displayed information to be display in the loupe as the loupe information.

Electronic device can include one or more communications paths between each of modules and although only some paths may be shown in . In particular electronic device can include a path between window controller module and content view module a path between content view module and loupe overlay module and a path between loupe overlay module and loupe view module . The paths can include any suitable physical or virtual path including for example API calls between modules.

Electronic device using one or more of the modules described in connection with can display any suitable information. For example electronic device can display information as part of a portable document format PDF file document. is a schematic view of an illustrative electronic device display of information in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Display of electronic device can include different types of information provided within window . In some cases information can be provided as part of document displayed in window . Information can include for example text images graphics or other content.

Information can be distributed in document using any suitable approach. In some cases document can include one or more sub regions in which information can be provided. For example document can include sub region that may correspond to a first column and sub region that may correspond to a second column. Document can include sub region that may display an image and sub region that may provide a title bar for information . Each sub region can be identified by a boundary where some of the boundaries can be shared between sub regions. For example sub region can include boundary and sub region can include boundary where portions of boundaries and may overlap e.g. along a column divider . Similarly sub region can include boundary and sub region can include boundary . Electronic device can automatically identify the sub regions in which information is displayed using any suitable approach including for example using a process for analyzing documents e.g. a process for determining how to construct PDF documents . The sub regions can have any suitable shape including for example rectangular triangular polygonal circular elliptical or curved shapes.

The particular information displayed in each sub region can have a same or different scale factor relative to the information displayed in other sub regions. For example a font size used for text in sub regions and can be larger than a font size used for a photo caption in sub region . Because the portions of information provided in each sub region are part of document e.g. information is considered a total entity however information can be associated with an information scale factor that applies to all displayed information of document . Accordingly to discern a portion of information in a particular sub region in which the portion of information may be sized too small to be easily read a user may be forced to increase the information scale factor associated with all of information . This may be confusing or burdensome for a user especially for reviewing ancillary portions of information .

Instead of requiring a user to increase an information scale factor for all displayed information an electronic device can provide a loupe overlay in which portions of displayed information in a region adjacent to the loupe can be displayed at a loupe scale factor larger than the information scale factor for all the displayed information. are illustrative electronic device displays of successive positions of loupe overlaid on a display in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Display of electronic device can include information of document provided on the display. In some cases information can correspond to information of and can be distributed in a similar manner e.g. in similar sub regions . A user can direct electronic device to display loupe using any suitable approach. For example a user can provide an instruction associated with enabling loupe using an input interface.

In response to receiving a corresponding instruction electronic device can display loupe . Loupe can be placed at any suitable position at least partially within window of display . In some cases loupe can be positioned relative to a position of a detected input. For example loupe can be substantially centered about a position of user input cursor . In some cases electronic device can offset the loupe position from a position of a detected user input. The loupe can be positioned at a loupe position e.g. based on a center of a loupe overlay window determined from a position of an input e.g. based on a mouse position . The particular information provided in the loupe can be determined from a center of magnification e.g. information located around the center of magnification is displayed in the loupe . In most cases the center of magnification can correspond with the position of the loupe. In some cases however such as when the loupe would extend beyond the bounds of display or of window the loupe position and the center of magnification can be disassociated. In most of the following discussion however it may be assumed that the loupe position and the center of magnification are the same. The loupe position and size can be adjusted by loupe overlay module while the center and area of magnification can be adjusted by content view module based on settings for the center and area of magnification.

Loupe can have any suitable shape and size. In some cases the dimensions of loupe can be determined from a region of information over which cursor may be positioned. In the example of cursor can be positioned beyond a boundary of document providing information . In particular cursor can be displayed in background region of window . In such cases loupe can have a default shape and a default size. For example dimensions can include a square a rectangle a polygon or a curved shape. In some cases dimensions can additionally or alternatively be determined from dimensions of document or from an amount of document displayed within window e.g. based on an information scale factor associated with document . In some cases the size of the loupe e.g. the size of the loupe overlay window can be determined from an area of magnification. For example the area of magnification can define an area around the center of magnification that is currently magnified by the loupe. In most cases the area of magnification can extend between boundaries e.g. boundaries along an x axis of a sub region over which the loupe is positioned. The size of the loupe can then be defined as the area of magnification multiplied by a content scale factor and by a loupe scale factor.

Different information can be provided in loupe . In some cases the particular information provided can vary based on the position of loupe relative to information . For example as shown in loupe e.g. loupe can include none of information but a scaled view of background region which may reflect the position of cursor beyond a boundary of document . When a user provides an input to displace loupe e.g. the user may provide an input to change the position of cursor electronic device can detect whether loupe is positioned over a portion of document such that at least some information may be displayed in loupe . For example as shown in loupe e.g. loupe can include portion of information and portion of background . As the user provides further inputs to displace loupe loupe can be positioned entirely over a sub region in which information is provided. As shown in loupe e.g. loupe can include portion of information and no portion of background . The specific portions of information that may be provided in loupe can be determined from the position of an input cursor over a sub region of document . In some cases the input cursor may be hidden from view by loupe e.g. as shown in .

As the position of loupe is varied dimensions of loupe can initially remain constant. For example as shown in dimensions of loupe can include a default size and a default shape that may be selected because loupe was initially displayed while cursor was positioned over background . Alternatively the dimensions of loupe can be selected based on a sub region or portion of document over which loupe is placed. When loupe reaches a position in which a cursor or input corresponding to loupe is placed over a particular sub region e.g. an input position is over sub region which may be similar to sub region of loupe can be re sized re shaped or both so that an entire portion of information provided in the sub region can be displayed in loupe according to the loupe scale factor. As shown in loupe e.g. loupe can be re dimensioned relative to loupes of . In particular dimensions of loupe can have a same height H as dimensions of loupes but a larger width W compared to width W of loupes to accommodate portion of information that may be provided in sub region of document .

Electronic device can determine dimensions for loupe using any suitable approach. In some embodiments electronic device can determine current loupe dimensions from dimensions associated with a sub region over which the loupe is placed. In particular a loupe may be most useful when at least one entire dimension e.g. width of a sub region is displayed in the loupe as this may allow a user to see the entirety of at least one dimension of that sub region in the loupe without moving the loupe e.g. a user may be able to read all of the text along certain lines of text of a sub region without moving the loupe from left to right along a line of text. For example dimensions of a loupe can be determined from a height or width of a sub region to which a loupe scale factor may be applied. When the electronic device determines that an input is provided over a sub region that is associated with loupe dimensions other than dimension currently used to display a loupe the electronic device can change the dimensions of the displayed loupe. Alternatively when the electronic device determines that a displayed loupe has dimensions that do not correspond to at least one dimension of a sub region over which the loupe is provided the electronic device can change the dimensions of the displayed loupe.

This is shown for example in in which the dimensions of loupe which may initially have default dimensions because the loupe is created while a cursor is overlaid on a background of a window may change to new dimensions that may correspond to sub region because loupe may be particularly placed with respect to sub region . For example once loupe is positioned such that at least an input is provided over a particular region of document dimensions of the loupe may be updated based on at least one dimension of that region. As shown in when an input position corresponding to loupe can be placed over or in region of document dimensions of loupe may be updated to dimensions of such that a width dimension W of region may be may be completely represented by loupe according to the loupe scale factor of the loupe. That is width W of loupe may be updated to width W of loupe such that all information spanning across width W of region according to the displayed information scale factor of displayed information may be fully displayed across width W of loupe according to the loupe scale factor as portion of information .

Once the dimensions of a loupe are particularly configured with respect to at least one dimension of a particular sub region of a displayed document the electronic device can maintain the loupe dimensions until the loupe is re positioned with respect to a new sub region having at least one different dimension than the previous sub region. are illustrative views of loupe that may be displayed in different positions on document in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Display of electronic device can include information of document provided on the display. In some cases information can correspond to information of and or information of and can be distributed in a similar manner e.g. amongst similar sub regions . A user can direct electronic device to display loupe using any suitable approach. For example a user can provide an instruction associated with enabling the loupe using an input interface. In some cases loupe can correspond to loupe displayed in .

As shown in loupe can initially be provided over sub region of document such that portion of information is displayed in loupe according to a loupe scale factor. A user can provide an instruction to displace loupe for example by moving a cursor. For example a user can provide an instruction for moving loupe from a position over sub region to a position over sub region as shown in . When loupe is displayed over sub region electronic device can provide portion of information to be display in the loupe according to the loupe scale factor. Because sub regions and may have the same dimensions e.g. sub regions and may be two similarly dimensioned columns of document such that width W of sub region may be the same as width W of sub region loupe may have the same dimensions when it is displayed over sub region e.g. loupe of and sub region e.g. loupe of .

When a user further displaces loupe the portion of information displayed in the loupe can change and can include in some cases portions of information from several sub regions or information from a sub region and from a background of the display. For example loupe provided in can include portion of information and portion of background . The loupe displayed in can initially have substantially the same dimensions as the loupe displayed over sub regions and although loupe can subsequently be re sized when it is provided over a different sub region of document or over background .

In some cases a loupe can be displayed over sub regions of a document that have different dimensions and that may be associated with loupes of different dimensions. are additional illustrative views of a loupe displayed in different positions on a document in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Display of electronic device can include information of document provided on the display. In some cases information can correspond to information of information of and or information of and can be distributed in a similar manner e.g. amongst similar sub regions . Information can be displayed in several sub regions including for example sub regions and corresponding to text columns and sub region corresponding to a figure. A user can direct electronic device to display loupe using any suitable approach. For example a user can provide an instruction associated with enabling the loupe using an input interface.

In the example of display loupe can be provided over sub region . The dimensions of loupe can differ from those of loupes and as loupe may be provided over a sub region having different dimensions than those over which loupes and are provided. In particular loupe can have a width W that is substantially larger than width W of loupe and width W of loupe as the width W of sub region may be larger than width W of sub region and width W of sub region . Electronic device can display portion of information in loupe according to the loupe scale factor of loupe . As a user moves loupe over different portions of sub region the particular portion of information displayed in loupe can vary. For example loupe can display different portions and of information as shown in respectively. That is width W of loupes and may be updated from width W of loupe such that all information spanning across width W of region according to the displayed information scale factor of displayed information may be fully displayed across width W of loupes and according to the loupe scale factor as portions and of information .

A loupe may be most useful when at least one entire dimension e.g. width of a sub region is displayed in the loupe as this may allow a user to see the entirety of at least one dimension of that sub region in the loupe without moving the loupe e.g. a user may be able to read all of the text along certain lines of text of a sub region without moving the loupe from left to right along a line of text . It may therefore be desirable to position the loupe such that the loupe remains substantially centered relative to a sub region e.g. a loupe position can be weighed more heavily towards a center of a sub region . The loupe dimensions however may be determined relative to a particular sub region even when the loupe is not centered on the sub region. Instead the position of the loupe can be transferred or offset from a position of a user input e.g. a cursor . In particular the electronic device can provide an algorithm for correlating an input or cursor position with a loupe position.

An electronic device can make use of regions and lines to determine a loupe position e.g. a center point position for the loupe to be associated with a particular user input position e.g. a position of a cursor controlled by a user input .

In some cases lines can represent input x position that result in a same loupe output x position. Outside of boundaries the input x position can equal the loupe output x position e.g. all lines are equidistant and parallel the transfer function is f x x . Inside boundaries a non linear transfer function e.g. as described in can apply and can increase a target area of input x position that results in a loupe output x position at or near centerline . This can be evidenced by an increased area between lines e.g. in region immediately adjacent to centerline . In addition the transfer function can return back to a function by which the input x position can equal the loupe output x position e.g. f x x along boundaries which can prevent an abrupt jump in the loupe position due to minor input movements along boundaries .

In one implementation the electronic device can identify a region that includes a user input position. The electronic device can then identify the lines that bound the input position and determine the relative distance of the input position from the identified lines. The electronic device can then follow the identified lines outside of the boundaries and determine a transferred position of the input between the identified lines outside of boundaries such that the input position is at the same relative distance from each identified line. The electronic device can determine the distance of the transferred position outside of boundaries from centerline . That distance from centerline can be used as the distance from the centerline for a loupe position corresponding to the initial position. The following examples will illustrate this process.

A user can provide an input at position . The electronic device can determine the relative distance of position to the adjacent lines e.g. lines and and define transferred position having the same relative distance to lines and outside of boundaries . The electronic device can then project transferred position back into boundaries along Y axis e.g. along line to identify loupe position having the same y value as input position and the same x value as transferred position .

As another example a user can provide an input at position . The electronic device can determine the relative distance of position to adjacent lines and and define transferred position having the same relative distance to lines and outside of boundaries . The electronic device can then project transferred position back into boundaries along Y axis e.g. along line to identify loupe position having the same y value as input position and the same x value as transferred position .

The algorithm or function that may be used to define loupe positions can be graphically represented. are representations of an algorithm that may be used to associate a loupe position with an input position in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Representation can include curved surfaces within boundary corresponding to a sub region of a displayed document. In particular curved surfaces can represent a loupe output x position e.g. output x determined from x and y coordinates for an input e.g. input x and input y . The plateau of the function can lie in the x y input plane and the height above or below the plateau can correspond to the loupe output x value where the plateau can be positioned at an output x value at or around the input x value corresponding to the center of the sub region along the x axis.

An electronic device can use any suitable mathematic function to define a loupe position from a given input position within a document or within a sub region. In some cases the loupe position can be determined based on a portion of a document at which an input position is detected. For example a loupe position can be the same as an input position when the input position is outside of a defined sub region of the document. As another example the loupe position can differ from an input position when the input position is within a sub region of the document. Any suitable algorithm can be used to determine the loupe position including for example a power function an exponential function a linear function or any other mathematical relationship between coordinates of a loupe position and coordinates of an input position. The loupe dimensions can then be selected to correspond to the identified particular sub region.

In some cases a loupe can be associated with a loupe position for determining where to place a loupe and a distinct loupe content position for determine which information to display in the loupe. The loupe content position can be determined relative to an input position and can be used to identify the specific subset of information that is displayed by the loupe. In some cases the loupe content position can be related to an input position as described above. The loupe position describing where a loupe is provided can be located in a position other than over a sub region from which content id splayed. For example a loupe used to display a portion of information from sub region can be positioned over one or both of sub regions and .

Using this algorithm the y position of the loupe may correspond to the y position of a mouse input and the x position of the loupe can correspond to the x position of the mouse when the mouse is near edges of the sub region but may correspond to a position on or near the centerline when the mouse is farther away from edges of the sub region. The power function causes a factor added to the centerline position to disappear or become less significant when the x position of the mouse is away from the edge of the sub region

The dimensions of a displayed loupe can have any suitable height and width. In some cases as discussed above at least one of the height and width of a loupe can be based on at least one of a height and width of a sub region that may be associated with the position of the loupe. For example the width of a loupe can be defined as the width of an associated sub region plus a margin amount. In some cases the particular margin amount to be added for defining the width of a loupe can be determined from a loupe scale factor used to display a portion of the document information. As another example a loupe height can be determined from a height of an associated sub region or a loupe height can be directly proportional to a width of the loupe. In some cases an electronic device can define a minimum width and a minimum height for a loupe for example based on a loupe scale factor. Alternatively a loupe height can be selected to be constant.

In some cases a user can change a loupe scale factor associated with a portion of information displayed in a loupe. are illustrative electronic device displays having a loupe that may be displayed with different loupe scale factors in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. As shown in display of electronic device can include a loupe that may be displayed over information . Portion of information can be displayed in loupe using a particular loupe scale factor. If a user determines that portion is displayed with too small a loupe scale factor the user can provide an instruction to increase the loupe scale factor while maintaining the information scale factor used for information . In particular as shown in loupe can include a portion of information . Because portion can be displayed with a larger loupe scale factor than the loupe scale factor used for portion loupe can have larger dimensions than loupe . In particular loupe can have a larger width than loupe so that portion can accommodate the larger scale factor of loupe . In some cases loupe and loupe can have a same height. Alternatively the height of loupe can increase to accommodate the larger scale factor of loupe

Electronic device can provide information in a loupe using any suitable scale factor. For example portions of information can be displayed using a larger scale factor such that the loupe may extend beyond boundaries of a document. As shown in loupe can include portion of information displayed with a larger scale factor than that used for loupe and loupe . The resulting loupe can extend beyond edges of document and over background . In some embodiments an overlay can extend beyond a boundary of window e.g. and into other regions of a display . In some cases the electronic device can instead automatically re size window to accommodate a larger loupe provided with a larger scale factor.

In addition to allowing a user to change a scale factor of portions of displayed information provided in a loupe a user can change an information scale factor for an entire document. are illustrative views of information displayed with different information scale factors in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Display of electronic device can include information over which loupe may be provided. For example can include information having loupe used to display portion of information . Information can be displayed using an information scale factor and portion of the information can be displayed using a loupe scale factor that may be larger than the information scale factor. In some cases electronic device can provide a particular relationship between the information scale factor and the loupe scale factor.

When a user provides an instruction to increase the information scale factor used to display information for example as shown in electronic device can simultaneously increase the information scale factor and the loupe scale factor. In particular the loupe scale factor can be increased by a same amount as the information scale factor is increased. Resulting loupe and portion of information displayed by loupe can have a larger loupe scale factor than that of loupe which may correspond to a larger information scale factor for information of than that of . Alternatively despite an information scale factor being adjusted a loupe scale factor of a loupe may be maintained.

In some cases a user can direct an electronic device to display in a loupe portions of information that are not initially provided on the display. For example a user can direct the electronic device to scroll a display of information while the loupe is displayed. are illustrative views of a loupe that may be displayed over information that is scrolled in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Display can include information that may be provided as part of document . A user can direct an electronic device to display a loupe over information . As the user moves the loupe over information the particular portion of information that may be provided in the loupe and the particular information provided in the display can change. Initially displayed loupe which can include portion of information can be displaced towards a display end portion of information of document as presented in display of e.g. in the direction of arrow A . As shown in loupe can be aligned with display end portion of document such that portion of information provided in loupe may correspond to a portion of information adjacent to display end portion of display . For example display end portion may correspond to the lower most portion of document that may be initially displayed by display of .

If a user provides further instructions to continue to displace loupe in that same direction of arrow A there may be no more displayed information in display that the device can provide in the loupe. Accordingly the electronic device may scroll information of document that is provided in display such that the device may provide a new display end portion of information as presented in display . As shown in loupe can include portion of information of document at new display end portion as presented in display that was not entirely provided in the displayed information of . A user can continue to displace a loupe in the direction of arrow A which may cause displayed information to scroll along display e.g. as shown by with portion of information displayed in loupe at a new display end portion as presented in display that was not entirely provided in the displayed information of until the electronic device reaches a document end boundary of document . As shown in loupe can include a portion of information where portion may correspond to a portion of information that may be adjacent to document end boundary of document . In some cases loupe can be placed over a portion of background that may be adjacent to document end boundary

The following flowcharts describe illustrative processes that may be used for providing a dynamic loupe in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. is a flowchart of an illustrative process for displaying a dynamic loupe in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Process can begin at step . At step information can be displayed in a window. For example an electronic device can display content using an application. At step an electronic device can determine whether an instruction to display a loupe was received. For example the electronic device can determine whether a user provided an instruction using an input interface to display a loupe. If the electronic device determines that no instruction was provided process can return to step . If at step the electronic device instead determines that an instruction to display a loupe was provided process can move to step .

At step an input position at which to place a loupe can be identified. For example the electronic device can identify a cursor position. As another example the electronic device can identify a position of a touch input. In some cases a sub region of the information adjacent to the input position can be identified. At step a position and size of the loupe can be identified. For example the electronic device can determine a loupe position related to a sub region adjacent to the input position. A size of the loupe may be determined based on a scale factor associated with the displayed content a scale factor associated with a loupe to be created at least one dimension of a sub region that may be associated with the loupe a size of a display on which a loupe is to be presented and or any other suitable information. At step a portion of the displayed information can be displayed in the loupe. For example a portion of the information can be displayed using a scale factor associated with the loupe. The scale factor of the loupe may be larger than a scale factor used to display the information in the window. Process can then move to step and end.

Steps of the following flowchart are described in the context of modules performing the process steps. It will be understood however that any electronic device component can perform the described process steps. is a flowchart of an illustrative process for displaying a loupe using modules in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Process can begin at step . At step a window controller module can enable a loupe tool on an existing content view module. For example the window controller module can enable a loupe overlay for a provided content view module. At step the content view module can activate a loupe overlay module. For example the content view module can direct the loupe overlay module to activate such that the content view module may provide the information to be displayed in a loupe. At step the loupe overlay module can set up a loupe and a loupe view module. For example the loupe overlay module can determine a size and position of the loupe. At step the loupe overlay module can retrieve a new image for the loupe from the content view module. The retrieved image can be displayed by the loupe view module. Process can end at step .

Steps of the following flowchart are described in the context of modules performing the process steps. It will be understood however that any electronic device component can perform the described process steps. is a flowchart of an illustrative process for initializing and displaying information in a loupe using modules in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Process can begin at step . At step a content view module can define a portion of information and a scale factor for use by a loupe. At step a loupe overlay module can define a loupe size and position at which the loupe is to be displayed. For example a loupe overlay module can determine a loupe size from dimensions associated with information over which the loupe is provided. The loupe overlay module can determine a loupe position based on a position of an input relative to the information over which the loupe is provided. At step the loupe overlay module can constrain the loupe to a display. For example the loupe overlay module can limit the loupe position to a screen or display of the device e.g. the loupe cannot extends beyond boundaries of a display such that the entirety of the loupe is always visible . In some cases the loupe overlay module can instead constrain the loupe to a particular window over which the loupe is displayed. At step the loupe overlay module can request information to display from the content view module. For example the loupe overlay module can request an information rendering from the content view module with a given loupe scale factor. At step the content view module can render an image having the requested information. In some cases the content view module can add a frame shape or transparency attributes to the rendered image. At step the loupe overlay module can render information retrieved from the content view module in the loupe using the loupe view module. For example the loupe overlay module can re render the information provided from the content view model for formatting and display in the loupe. Process can then end at step .

If at step it is instead determined that a new input position was received process can move to step . At step the electronic device can determine whether the new input position is associated with a new sub region. For example the electronic device can identify a particular sub region over which the new position is located. If the electronic device determines that the new input position is not associated with a new sub region process can move to step . At step a new loupe position associated with the new input position can be defined. For example the electronic device can project the new input position towards a centerline of the initial sub region. At step the electronic device can determine whether the new loupe position is the same as the initial position of the loupe. If the electronic device determines that the new loupe position is the same as the initial loupe position process can move to step and end. Alternatively if the electronic device determines that the new loupe position is not the same as the initial loupe position process can move to step and may display the loupe in the defined new loupe position. In some cases the information provided in the loupe can change based on the loupe position or on an input position. Process can then end at step .

Returning to step if the electronic device instead determines that the new input position is associated with a new sub region process can move to step . At step a new loupe position that may be associated with the new sub region can be defined where the new loupe position may be associated with the new input position. For example the electronic device can identify a position near a centerline of the new sub region. At step the loupe can be displayed in the defined new loupe position which may be positioned over at least a portion of the new sub region. In some cases the information provided in the loupe can change based on the loupe position or on an input position. Process can then end at step .

If at step it is instead determined that a page is found process can move to step . At step a column rectangle at a mouse location can be found e.g. at an input position . At step it can be determined whether a document column is found within the column rectangle. The column rectangle can correspond to boundaries of a sub region. The electronic device can determine whether a user input is over a sub region or over an area between or around sub regions. If no process can move to step and it may be determined whether a magnified area has been initialized. If yes process can move to step described below. If no process can move to step described above. If at step the it is instead determined that a column was found process can move to step and a magnified area can be set to the column width of the found column plus constant margins and a default height may be used. The constant margins can be determined from a loupe scale factor. At step it can be determined whether an overlay window is taller or wider than the screen. The overlay window can provide a window in which the loupe is displayed. If yes process can move to step and may reduce the magnified area so that the entire loupe e.g. in the overlay window fits on the screen while maintaining a particular magnification level. For example the electronic device can reduce the amount of information displayed in the loupe while maintaining the loupe scale factor. Process can then move to step described below. If no process can move to step . At step a magnified center can be set to a guided location based on the mouse or input location. For example the electronic device can determine a loupe position based on an input position e.g. as described in connection with . Process can then move to step . At step the magnified center can be set to the actual mouse location and process can move to step .

At step it can be determined whether the overlay will extend over the screen edge. The screen edge can include a boundary of content displayed in a window e.g. boundary a boundary of a window e.g. a boundary of window or a boundary of the physical display. If yes process can move to step and keep the overlay window completely on the screen by detaching the overlay position from the magnified center. For example the electronic device can redefine a loupe position to re position the loupe. Process can then move to step . If no process can move to step . At step an event type of a user input can be determined e.g. as a mouse move mouse drag or an auto scroll . If an event type is not determined to be of a particular type process can move to step described below. If yes process can move to step and attempt to auto scroll so that the magnified area will be completely inside the content view. For example the electronic device can scroll the displayed information such that the portion of information within the loupe is within boundaries of a visible region of the information. At step it can be determined whether an auto scroll resulted in actual movement e.g. whether there is additional information that can be displayed as part of the auto scroll process . If yes process can move to step and can if necessary start a periodic auto scroll event to keep auto scrolling going without user input e.g. without mouse movement . For example the electronic device can determine whether additional information is available in a direction of scrolling. Process can then move to step and end e.g. wait for a new event such as a new user input event . If no process can move to step and can if necessary stop periodic auto scroll events. At step the process can finish and wait for a next event.

In some embodiments one or more modules of e.g. loupe overlay module and or loupe view module can make use of one or more application programming interfaces APIs in an environment with calling program code that may interact with other program code that may be called through the one or more interfaces. Various function calls messages or other types of invocations which further may include various kinds of parameters can be transferred via the APIs between the calling program and the code being called. In addition an API may provide the calling program code the ability to use data types or classes defined in the API and implemented in the called program code.

An API may be an interface implemented by a program code component e.g. an API implementing component that may allow a different program code component e.g. an API calling component to access and use one or more functions methods procedures data structures classes and or other services provided by the API implementing component. An API can define one or more parameters that are passed between the API calling component and the API implementing component.

An API can allow a developer of an API calling component which may be a third party developer to leverage specified features provided by one or more API implementing components. An API can be a source code interface that a computer system or program library may provide in order to support requests for services from an application. An API can be specified in terms of a programming language that can be interpreted or compiled when an application is built.

In some embodiments the API implementing component may provide more than one API each providing a different view of or with different aspects that access different aspects of the functionality implemented by the API implementing component. In other embodiments the API implementing component may itself call one or more other components via an underlying API and thus be both an API calling component and an API implementing component.

An API may define the language and parameters that API calling components may use when accessing and using specified features of the API implementing component. For example an API calling component may access the specified features of the API implementing component through one or more API calls or invocations which may be embodied for example by function or method calls that may be exposed by the API and may pass data and control information using parameters via the API calls or invocations. The API implementing component may return a value through the API in response to an API call from an API calling component. While the API may define the syntax and result of an API call e.g. how to invoke the API call and what the API call does the API may not reveal how the API call accomplishes the function specified by the API call. Various API calls may be transferred via the one or more application programming interfaces between the calling component e.g. the API calling component and an API implementing component. Transferring the API calls may include issuing initiating invoking calling receiving returning or responding to the function calls or messages. The function calls or other invocations of the API may send or receive one or more parameters through a parameter list or other structure. A parameter can be a constant key data structure object object class variable data type pointer array list or a pointer to a function or method or another way to reference a data or other item to be passed via the API.

Furthermore data types or classes may be provided by the API and implemented by the API implementing component. Thus the API calling component may declare variables use pointers to use or instantiate constant values of such types or classes by using definitions provided in the API.

Generally an API can be used to access a service or data provided by the API implementing component or to initiate performance of an operation or computation provided by the API implementing component. By way of example the API implementing component and the API calling component may be an operating system a library a device driver an API an application program or other module. It should be understood that the API implementing component and the API calling component may be the same or different type of module from each other. API implementing components may in some cases be embodied at least in part in firmware microcode or other hardware logic. In some embodiments an API may allow a client program to use the services provided by a Software Development Kit SDK library. In other embodiments an application or other client program may use an API provided by an Application Framework. In these embodiments the application or client program may incorporate calls to functions or methods provided by the SDK and provided by the API or use data types or objects defined in the SDK and provided by the API. An Application Framework may in these embodiments provide a main event loop for a program that can respond to various events defined by the Framework. The API may allow the application to specify the events and the responses to the events using the Application Framework. In some implementations an API call can report to an application the capabilities or state of a hardware device including those related to aspects such as input capabilities and state output capabilities and state processing capability power state storage capacity and state communications capability etc. and the API may be implemented in part by firmware microcode or other low level logic that executes in part on the hardware component.

The API calling component may be a local component i.e. on the same data processing system as the API implementing component or a remote component i.e. on a different data processing system from the API implementing component that may communicate with the API implementing component through the API over a network. It should be understood that an API implementing component may also act as an API calling component i.e. it may make API calls to an API exposed by a different API implementing component and an API calling component may also act as an API implementing component by implementing an API that is exposed to a different API calling component.

The API may allow multiple API calling components written in different programming languages to communicate with the API implementing component. Thus the API may include features for translating calls and returns between the API implementing component and the API calling component. However the API may be implemented in terms of a specific programming language.

It will be appreciated that API implementing component can include additional functions methods classes data structures and or other features that may not be specified through API and that may not be available to the API calling component . It should be understood that API calling component may be on the same system as API implementing component or may be located remotely and accesses API implementing component using API over a network. While illustrates a single API calling component interacting with API it should be understood that other API calling components which may be written in different languages than or in the same language as API calling component may use API . In in an exemplary embodiment of a Software Stack applications can make calls to Services A or B using Service API and to Operating System OS using OS API. Services A and B can make calls to the OS using OS API.

Any suitable electronic device can be used to display information in a window using a scale factor. is a schematic view of an illustrative electronic device for displaying information in a window in accordance with some embodiments of the invention. Electronic device may be any portable mobile or hand held electronic device configured to present a document and a loupe to a user wherever the user travels. Alternatively electronic device may not be portable at all but may instead be generally stationary. Electronic device can include but is not limited to a music player e.g. an iPod available by Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. video player still image player game player other media player music recorder movie or video camera or recorder still camera other media recorder radio medical equipment domestic appliance transportation vehicle instrument musical instrument calculator cellular telephone e.g. an iPhone available by Apple Inc. other wireless communication device personal digital assistant remote control pager computer e.g. a desktop laptop tablet server etc. monitor television stereo equipment set up box set top box boom box modem router printer and combinations thereof. In some embodiments electronic device may perform a single function e.g. a device dedicated to presenting visual content and in other embodiments electronic device may perform multiple functions e.g. a device that presents visual content plays music and receives and transmits telephone calls .

Electronic device may include a processor memory power supply input component and display . Electronic device may also include a bus that may provide one or more wired or wireless communication links or paths for transferring data and or power to from or between various other components of device . In some embodiments one or more components of electronic device may be combined or omitted. Moreover electronic device may include other components not combined or included in and or several instances of one or more of the components shown in .

Memory may include one or more storage mediums including for example a hard drive flash memory non volatile memory permanent memory such as read only memory ROM semi permanent memory such as random access memory RAM any other suitable type of storage component or any combination thereof. Memory may include cache memory which may be one or more different types of memory used for temporarily storing data for electronic device application programs. Memory may store media data e.g. music and image files software e.g. a boot loader program one or more application programs of an operating system for implementing functions on device etc. firmware preference information e.g. media playback preferences lifestyle information e.g. food preferences exercise information e.g. information obtained by exercise monitoring equipment transaction information e.g. information such as credit card information wireless connection information e.g. information that may enable device to establish a wireless connection subscription information e.g. information that keeps track of podcasts or television shows or other media a user subscribes to contact information e.g. telephone numbers and e mail addresses calendar information any other suitable data or any combination thereof.

Power supply may provide power to one or more of the components of device . In some embodiments power supply can be coupled to a power grid e.g. when device is not a portable device such as a desktop computer . In some embodiments power supply can include one or more batteries for providing power e.g. when device is a portable device such as a cellular telephone . As another example power supply can be configured to generate power from a natural source e.g. solar power using solar cells .

One or more input components may be provided to permit a user to interact or interface with device . For example input component can take a variety of forms including but not limited to an electronic device pad dial click wheel scroll wheel touch screen one or more buttons e.g. a keyboard mouse joy stick track ball microphone camera proximity sensor light detector and combinations thereof. Each input component can be configured to provide one or more dedicated control functions for making selections or issuing commands associated with operating device .

Electronic device may also include one or more output components that may present information e.g. visual audible and or tactile information to a user of device . An output component of electronic device may take various forms including but not limited to audio speakers headphones audio line outs visual displays antennas infrared ports rumblers vibrators or combinations thereof.

For example electronic device may include display as an output component. Display may include any suitable type of display or interface for presenting visual content to a user. In some embodiments display may include a display embedded in device or coupled to device e.g. a removable display . Display may include for example a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED display an organic light emitting diode OLED display a surface conduction electron emitter display SED a carbon nanotube display a nanocrystal display any other suitable type of display or combination thereof. Alternatively display can include a movable display or a projecting system for providing a display of content on a surface remote from electronic device such as for example a video projector a head up display or a three dimensional e.g. holographic display. As another example display may include a digital or mechanical viewfinder such as a viewfinder of the type found in compact digital cameras reflex cameras or any other suitable still or video camera. In some embodiments display may include display driver circuitry circuitry for driving display drivers or both. Display can be operative to present visual content provided by device e.g. a document and a loupe .

It should be noted that one or more input components and one or more output components may sometimes be referred to collectively herein as an input output I O interface e.g. input component and display as I O interface . It should also be noted that input component and display may sometimes be a single I O component such as a touch screen that may receive input information through a user s touch of a display screen and that may also provide visual information to a user via that same display screen.

Electronic device may also be provided with an enclosure or housing that may at least partially enclose one or more of the components of device for protecting them from debris and other degrading forces external to device . In some embodiments one or more of the components may be provided within its own housing e.g. input component may be an independent keyboard or mouse within its own housing that may wirelessly or through a wire communicate with processor which may be provided within its own housing .

Processor of device may include any processing or control circuitry operative to control the operations and performance of one or more components of electronic device . For example processor may be used to run operating system applications firmware applications media playback applications media editing applications or any other application. In some embodiments processor may receive input signals from input component and or drive output signals through display .

It is to be understood that the steps shown in each one of processes of respectively are merely illustrative and that existing steps may be modified or omitted additional steps may be added and the order of certain steps may be altered.

Moreover the processes described with respect to as well as any other aspects of the invention may each be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware and software. Embodiments of the invention can also be embodied as computer readable code on a computer readable medium. The computer readable medium may be any data storage device that can store data which can thereafter be read by a computer system. Examples of the computer readable medium include read only memory ROM random access memory RAM CD ROMs DVDs magnetic tape and optical data storage devices. The computer readable medium can also be distributed over network coupled computer systems so that the computer readable code may be stored and executed in a distributed fashion.

Although many of the embodiments of the present invention are described herein with respect to personal computing devices it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to personal computing applications but is generally applicable to other applications.

Insubstantial changes from the claimed subject matter as viewed by a person with ordinary skill in the art now known or later devised are expressly contemplated as being equivalently within the scope of the claims. Therefore obvious substitutions now or later known to one with ordinary skill in the art are defined to be within the scope of the defined elements.

The above described embodiments of the invention are presented for purposes of illustration and not of limitation.

