---

title: Method and apparatus for providing user interface
abstract: The apparatus includes: a memory which maintains an application driving a list of a plurality of items; a display controller which controls the list to be displayed on the screen which is divided into a plurality of areas and each of the plurality of items is located in each of the plurality of areas; a processor which detects a change of an operation progress status of the plurality of items, wherein the display controller provides a visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status of at least one of the plurality of items in the area of a corresponding item, whose change of the operation progress status is detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09417788&OS=09417788&RS=09417788
owner: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO., LTD.
number: 09417788
owner_city: Suwon-si
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20101201
---
This application claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application Nos. 61 265 923 and 61 265 939 filed Dec. 2 2009 and Korean Patent Application No. 10 2010 0116862 filed Nov. 23 2010 in the Korean Intellectual Property Office the disclosures of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

Apparatuses and methods consistent with exemplary embodiments relate to a method and an apparatus for providing a user interface and more particularly to a method and an apparatus for providing a more efficient user interface by using a screen configuration.

A user interface UI may provide a temporary or continuous access to enable a communication between a user and an object a system a device or a program. The UI may include a physical or virtual medium. Generally the UI may be divided into an input by which a user manipulates a system and an output by which a response or result of the input to the system is displayed.

Input needs an input device to move a cursor on a screen or to receive a user s manipulation to select a particular object. For example the input device may include a button a key a mouse a track ball a touch pad a joy stick or a touch screen. Output needs an output device to identify a response to the input by using user s sense of sight hearing or touch. For example the output device may include a display apparatus a touch screen a speaker or an oscillator.

The touch screen may provide both input and output through a screen. A user may touch the screen by using his her finger or a stylus. A computer may recognize the touch on the touch screen analyze the touch and perform a corresponding operation based on the touch.

Exemplary embodiments address at least the above problems and or disadvantages and other disadvantages not described above. Also an exemplary embodiment is not required to overcome the disadvantages described above and an exemplary embodiment may not overcome any of the problems described above.

According to an aspect of an exemplary embodiment there is provided an apparatus for providing a user interface the apparatus including a memory which maintains an application driving a list of a plurality of items a screen displaying the list thereon is divided into a plurality of areas and the item is located in each of the plurality of areas a display controller which controls the list to be displayed on the screen a processor which detects a change of an operation progress status of the plurality of items and the display controller providing a visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status of at least one of the items in an area of the at least one of items the change of the operation progress status of which is detected among the plurality of items.

The display controller may display a progress bar corresponding to the operation progress status of the at least one item in the area of the at least one detected item.

The display controller may undo the visual feedback provided to the item which displays a completion of the operation progress status in an area of the item the operation progress status of which displays the completion among the at least one item.

The memory may maintain types of available lists the processor may detect the type of the list and the display controller may receive from the memory a display control method corresponding to the type of the list among the types of the list and display the display control method on the screen.

The types of the list may include a basic list in which the plurality of items is sequentially arranged a grouping list in which the plurality of items is grouped and arranged according to a preset classification standard and an expandable list in which additional information or a subordinate item of the item selected among the plurality of items is inserted into the list.

The display controller may control the M number of soft keys corresponding to the M number of options M is a preset integer or less among the N number of options provided in a menu of the application to overlay the list on the screen.

If N is larger than M an option menu may be added to the screen the option menu displays a window including the N M number of options which is not included in the M number of options among the N number of options as a response to a touch gesture selecting the option menu.

The M number of soft keys may be provided in a lower left side and a lower right side of the screen and is labeled as at least one of an icon and a text displaying the M number of options and the option menu may be provided between the lower left side and the lower right side and take a smaller area than the M number of soft keys.

If an overlaying area between the plurality of items of the list and the M number of soft keys occurs the display controller may insert a dummy area in a preset size into one of an upper part and a lower part of the item corresponding to the overlaying area and moves a location of the item corresponding to the overlaying area on the screen.

The processor may determine whether to select a first item as a response to a touch gesture in an area excluding an area of the M number of soft keys in the area of the first item if the M number of soft keys overlays at least a part of the area of the first item among areas of the plurality of items.

According to an aspect of another exemplary embodiment there is provided a method for providing a user interface the method including maintaining in a memory an application which drives a list of a plurality of items a screen which displays the list thereon is divided into a plurality of areas and the item is provided in each of the plurality of areas displaying the list on the screen detecting a change of an operation progress status of the plurality of items and providing a visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status of at least one item in an area of the at least one item the change of the operation progress status of which is detected among the plurality of items.

The providing of the visual feedback may include displaying a progress bar in the area of the at least one detected item corresponding to the operation progress status of the at least one item.

The providing of the visual feedback may include undoing the visual feedback provided to the item displaying a completion of the operation in the area of the item among the at least one item.

The method may further include maintaining in the memory types of available lists and detecting the type of the list wherein the displaying of the list on the screen may include receiving from the memory a display control method corresponding to the type of the list among the types of the list and displaying the list on the screen.

The types of the list may include a basic list in which the plurality of items is sequentially arranged a grouping list in which the plurality of items is grouped and arranged according to a preset classification standard and an expandable list in which additional information or a subordinate item of the item selected among the plurality of items is inserted into the list.

The displaying of the list on the screen may include overlaying the M number of soft keys to the list corresponding to the M number of options M is a preset integer or less among the N number of options included in a menu of the application on the screen.

If N is larger than M an option menu may be added to the screen the option menu displays a window including the N M number of options which is not included in the M number of options among the N number of options as a response to a touch gesture selecting the option menu.

The M number of soft keys may be provided in a lower left side and a lower right side of the screen and is labeled as at least one of an icon and a text displaying the M number of options and the option menu may be provided between the lower left side and the lower right side and take a smaller area than the M number of soft keys.

The displaying of the list on the screen may include inserting a dummy area in a preset size into one of an upper part and a lower part of the item corresponding to an overlaying area between the plurality of items of the list and the M number of soft keys and moving a location of the item corresponding to the overlaying area on the screen if the overlaying area between the plurality of items of the list and the M number of soft keys occurs.

The method may further include determining whether to select a first item as a response to a touch gesture in an area excluding an area of the M number of soft keys from the area of the first item if the M number of soft keys overlays at least a part of the area of the first item among areas of the plurality of items.

Certain exemplary embodiments are described in greater detail below with reference to accompanying drawings.

In the following description like drawing reference numerals are used for like elements even in different drawings. The matters defined in the description such as detailed construction and elements are provided to assist in a comprehensive understanding of exemplary embodiments. However exemplary embodiments can be practiced without those specifically defined matters.

A computer system is used as a reference to explain exemplary embodiments. The skilled in the art may fully understand that the system and methods as described below are applicable to a voluntary display system including a user interface.

 Exemplary embodiment example aspect and exemplification used herein shall not be construed that the discretionary aspect or design explained herein are better or more advantageous than other aspects or designs.

 Component module system and interface used hereinbelow means a computer related entity in general and e.g. may mean hardware a combination of hardware and software or software.

 Or means an inclusive or rather than exclusive or . That is unless otherwise stated or explicit in the context the expression x uses a or b means one of natural inclusive permutations.

The singular used herein should be interpreted as including one or more unless otherwise stated or explicit in the context regarding the singular type.

 And or used herein should be understood as referring to and including all of available combinations of at least one item of listed relevant items.

 Include and or including means that the concerned property step operation module elements and or components exist but does not exclude that one or more of other properties steps operations modules elements and component and or a group thereof exist or are added.

 First Second etc. may be used herein to explain various elements but the elements are not limited to such terms. The terms are used only to distinguish two or more elements and there is no order or order of priority between the elements.

Hereinafter an apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment will be described. In an exemplary embodiment the apparatus a user interface UI for the apparatus and a relevant process for using the apparatus will be described. Such apparatus may include a device which further includes a PDA function a music playing or calling function and other functions. However all or part of the apparatus the user interface and the relevant process according to an exemplary embodiment which will be described below are applicable to digital devices such as a personal computer a laptop computer a digital television DTV etc.

The apparatus may support at least one of a telephone application a video conference application an e mail application an instant messaging application a blogging application a photo managing application a digital camera application a digital video camera application a web browsing application a digital music playing application and a digital video playing application.

The various applications above may use e.g. a physical or virtual UI. For example a user may change or move information displayed on a touch screen within a single application or to another application through the physical or virtual UI. The apparatus may support various applications by using a physical or virtual UI that is intuitive and clear and uses a common physical or virtual architecture.

The apparatus may include at least one processor a memory a peripheral interface an input output I O subsystem a touch screen a sensor another I O device a radio frequency RF circuit an audio circuit a power circuit and an external port . Such components may communicate with each other through at least one communication bus or signal line.

The memory may include e.g. a high speed random access memory a magnetic disk an SRAM a DRAM a ROM a flash memory or a non volatile memory. The memory may include a software module an instruction set or other various data. An access to the memory by other components such as the processor and the peripheral interface may be controlled by the processor .

The peripheral interface may integrate the input and or output peripheral device of the apparatus to at least one processor and memory . The processor may perform various functions and process data by executing the software module or the instruction set stored in the memory .

The RF circuit may transmit and receive an RF signal which is also known as an electromagnetic signal. The RF circuit may convert an electric signal into an electromagnetic signal convert an electromagnetic signal into an electric signal and communicate with a communication network or other communication devices through an electromagnetic signal. The RF circuit may include a known circuit to perform the foregoing function. The known circuit may include an antenna system an RF transmitter receiver at least one amplifier a tuner at least one oscillator a digital signal processor a codec chipset a subscriber identification module SIM card and a memory but not limited thereto. The RF circuit may communicate in a wireless communication with a cellular phone network a wireless network such as wireless local area network LAN and or metropolitan area network MAN a network such as an intranet and or the Internet also called the World Wide Web WWW and other devices. Such wireless communication may include an e mail protocol such as Global System for Mobile Communications GSM Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Bluetooth Wireless Fidelity Wi Fi for IEEE 802.11a IEEE 802.11b IEEE 802.11g and or IEEE 802.11n Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP Wi MAX Long Term Evolution LTE Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP and or Post Office Protocol POP an instant messaging protocol such as eXtensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP Session Initiation Protocol for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS or Short Message Service SMS or communication protocols which are not developed at the time of the application date of the present application. In addition to the foregoing wireless communication other communication standards protocols and technology may be used.

The audio circuit may provide an audio interface between a user and the apparatus by using a speaker and or a microphone. The audio circuit may receive audio data from the peripheral interface convert audio data into electric signals and transmit electric signals to the speaker. The speaker may convert the electric signal into a human audible sound wave. The audio circuit may receive an electric signal converted from a sound wave by a microphone. The audio circuit may convert an electric signal into audio data and transmit the audio data to the peripheral interface to process the audio data. The audio data may be searched from or transmitted to the memory or the RF circuit by the peripheral interface . According to an aspect the audio circuit may further include a headset jack. The headset jack may provide an interface between a headset including input and output devices or a portable audio I O peripheral device such as an output headphone.

The power circuit may supply power to all or part of the components of the apparatus . For example the power circuit may include a power management system at least one power source such as a battery or alternating current AC power source a charging system a power failure detection circuit a power transformer or inverter a power indicator and other voluntary components for generating managing and distributing power.

The I O subsystem may integrate an I O peripheral device such as the touch screen the sensor or the another input control device to the peripheral interface . The I O subsystem may include a display controller a sensor controller or at least one I O controller . According to another aspect the touch screen the sensor or the input control device may be integrated directly to the peripheral interface instead of through the I O subsystem .

According to another aspect at least one of the processor the peripheral interface and the I O subsystem may be provided in a single chip. Otherwise a part of at least one of the processor the peripheral interface and the I O subsystem may be provided in a single chip.

The display controller may receive an electric signal from the touch screen including a touch detection area transmit an electric signal to the touch screen or transmit and receive an electric signal to from the touch screen . By a control of the display controller the touch screen may display thereon a visual output for a user. The visual output may include a graphic a text an icon a video and a combination of the foregoing elements collectively the graphic . According to an aspect a part or all of the visual output may correspond to a user interface which will be described later in more detail.

The touch screen may include a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting polymer display LPD an organic light emitting diode OLED an active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED or other displays. The touch screen and the display controller may employ capacitive technology resistive technology infrared technology and surface acoustic wave technology but not limited thereto and may further include other known technologies or touch detection technology which will be developed in the future. The touch screen and the display controller may detect a contact point its movement or release by using a proximity sensor array or other elements to determine at least one contact address with the touch screen .

The display controller may be coupled with a screen which does not include a touch detection area. The touch detection area excluding screen may receive an electric signal from the display controller and display a visual output for a user. The touch detection area excluding screen may include a plasma display panel PDP an electronic paper display EPD a liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting polymer display LPD an organic light emitting diode OLED an active matrix organic light emitting diode AMOLED and other displays. The apparatus which employs the screen excluding the touch detection area may provide an I O device such as a keyboard a mouse or a physical button as a user interface.

The at least one another I O controller may receive an electric signal from the another I O device or transmit an electric signal to the another I O device . The another I O control device may include e.g. a button a keyboard a touch pad a dial a slider switch or a joy stick. The another I O controller may be integrated to any of an infrared port a USB port and a mouse.

According to an aspect the another I O control device may include at least one physical or virtual button. In the case of the virtual button the button and a button controller may be a part of the touch screen and the display controller respectively. According to an aspect the button may include an up down button a locker button or a push button to adjust a volume of the speaker or the microphone . For example if a user presses the push button briefly the touch screen is unlocked and an unlocking process may be initiated by applying a gesture to the touch screen. Otherwise a user may press the push button long to turn on or turn off power to the apparatus .

According to another aspect the another I O control device may include at least one physical keyboard or virtual soft keyboard. As an example of the keyboard Qwerty and or non Qwerty may be used. In the virtual soft keyboard the soft keyboard and the soft keyboard controller may be a part of the touch screen and the display controller respectively. The soft keyboard according to an exemplary embodiment may include a fewer number of graphics or soft keys than the physical keyboard. Then a user may select at least one graphic of the soft keyboard and display at least one corresponding symbol on the touch screen .

According to another aspect the another I O control device may include a touch pad to enable or disable a particular function. According to another aspect the touch pad may include a touch detection area which does not display thereon the visual output unlike the touch screen. The touch pad may include a touch detection surface separated from the touch screen or a part of the touch detection surface formed and extended from the touch screen .

The sensor controller may receive an electric signal from the sensor transmit an electric signal to the sensor or transmit and receive an electric signal to from the sensor . The sensor may include an optical sensor a proximity sensor an accelerometer a GPS sensor a magnetic sensor a tilt sensor an ambient sensor and a weather sensor but not limited thereto.

According to an aspect the sensor may include at least one optical sensor . illustrates the optical sensor which is integrated to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . The optical sensor may be integrated to the peripheral interface . The optical sensor may include a charge coupled device CCD or complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS photo transistor. The optical sensor may receive light emitted through at least one lens from the environment and convert such light into image data. Together with an image module a so called camera module the optical sensor may capture a still image or video. According to another aspect to use the touch screen display as a view finder to acquire at least one of a still image and a video the optical sensor may be provided in a rear side or a front side of the apparatus . According to an aspect to acquire an image of a user for a video conference while a user views other video conference attendees on the touch screen display the optical sensor may be provided in the front side of the apparatus . According to another aspect a user may rotate a lens and a sensor of the apparatus housing to change a location of the optical sensor so that the single optical sensor acquires a still image or a video for the video conference. Further the apparatus may detect the light amount from the optical sensor adjust a brightness of a particular area of the touch screen by using a value corresponding to the light amount or adjust a brightness of a graphic on the touch screen .

According to an aspect the sensor may include at least one proximity sensor . illustrates the proximity sensor which is connected to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . Otherwise the proximity sensor may be connected to the peripheral interface . The proximity sensor may detect whether any object is proximate to the apparatus . For example the proximity sensor may provide an on or off value with respect to a detection non detection of the object. According to an aspect when the apparatus is proximate to a user s ear like talking over the phone the proximity sensor may turn off the touch screen to thereby prevent unnecessary battery consumption.

According to another aspect the sensor may further include at least one of accelerometers . illustrates the accelerometer which is connected to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . Otherwise the accelerometer may be connected to the peripheral interface . The accelerometer may detect a change of speed of the apparatus or a direction of the apparatus . For example the accelerometer may measure an accelerating vector value of the apparatus in three axes of X Y and Z. The accelerometer may provide a displacement value per hour corresponding to the three axes. According to an aspect information may be displayed on the touch screen vertically or transversely on the basis of the analysis of data transmitted from the at least one accelerometer

According to another aspect the sensor may further include at least one GPS sensor . FIG. illustrates the GPS sensor which is connected to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . Otherwise the GPS sensor may be connected to the peripheral interface . The GPS sensor may receive at least one satellite signal process the received signal and detect a location of the apparatus on earth. For example the GPS sensor may provide latitude longitude and altitude values of the apparatus based on the detected value. For example the GPS sensor may provide the latitude value of 90 up to 90 degrees and the longitude value of 180 up to 180 degrees. According to an aspect the location of the apparatus on earth may be displayed on the touch screen on the basis of the analysis of data transmitted from the GPS sensor

According to another aspect the sensor may further include at least one magnetic sensor . illustrates the magnetic sensor which is connected to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . Otherwise the magnetic sensor may be connected to the peripheral interface . For example the magnetic sensor may detect an intensity or a change of a magnetic field generated on earth process the detected signal and determine a direction value of the apparatus . For example the magnetic sensor may provide the intensity and change of the magnetic field as values of three axes of X Y and Z based on the detected value. According to an aspect the apparatus may change a rotation of a predetermined icon on the touch screen by using the value provided by the magnetic sensor

According to another aspect the sensor may further include at least one tilt sensor . illustrates the tilt sensor which is connected to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . Otherwise the tilt sensor may be connected to the peripheral interface . The tilt sensor may include at least one accelerometer and at least one magnetic sensor. The tilt sensor may provide e.g. azimuth pitch and roll values by using the values of three axes of X Y and Z detected from the sensors. For example the tilt sensor may provide the value ranging from zero to 360 degrees as an azimuth value the value ranging from 180 to 180 degrees as a pitch value and the value ranging from 90 to 90 degrees as a roll value. The apparatus according to an aspect may detect a user s gesture gripping and moving the apparatus by using the tilt sensor

According to another aspect the sensor may further include at least one ambient sensor . illustrates the ambient sensor which is connected to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . Otherwise the ambient sensor may be connected to the peripheral interface . The ambient sensor may detect temperature humidity and intensity of illumination of the ambient environment of the apparatus . The ambient sensor may acquire the detected value per hour. For example the ambient sensor may provide humidity values ranging from zero to 100 and temperature in Fahrenheit or Celsius and the intensity of illumination from level zero to 10. According to an aspect the apparatus may display on the touch screen the value of the ambient environment of the apparatus acquired through the ambient sensor

According to another aspect the sensor may further include at least one weather sensor . illustrates the weather sensor which is connected to the sensor controller of the I O subsystem . Otherwise the weather sensor may be connected to the peripheral interface . The weather sensor may provide information on humidity temperature or weather. The weather information relating to a particular day or time may be acquired from an external server. The server may provide weather information based on information of a user s location. According to an aspect the apparatus may transmit to the server an http request signal including location information. The server may search the weather information on the location based on the location information of the apparatus and provide the apparatus with the searched information as an eXtensible Markup Language XML document. For example the weather sensor may provide the value of humidity ranging from zero to 100 and the temperature in Fahrenheit or Celsius and the condition relating to weather as an integer.

Returning to the apparatus may perform an operation combining a predetermined function through a screen including a touch detection area such as the touch screen or touch pad . In this case a basic input control is available on the touch screen for the operation of the apparatus and the number of a physical input output device such as a push button keyboard and dial of the apparatus may be reduced.

To perform the operation combining the predetermined function through the touch screen a UI may be displayed on the touch screen for navigation. According to an aspect if a user touches the touch screen the touch screen may provide a UI such as a main menu or root menu. According to another aspect the apparatus may provide a physical push button or other physical input and control devices as a UI.

According to an aspect the apparatus may perform the operation combining the predetermined function through a screen excluding the touch detection area. The apparatus may use a UI such as a physical keyboard a mouse and a physical button as a basic input control device. According to an aspect if a user manipulates a physical UI the apparatus may display a visual output on the screen excluding the touch detection area corresponding to a user s manipulation.

According to another aspect the apparatus may perform the operation combining the predetermined function through both the touch screen or touch pad including the touch detection area and the screen excluding the touch detection area. The apparatus may use at least one of a physical UI and a virtual UI as a basic input control device. According to an aspect if a user touches the physical UI or manipulates the virtual UI the apparatus may interact with the physical or virtual UI and display the result of a user s touch or manipulation on at least one of the touch screen including the touch detection area and the screen excluding the touch detection area.

The touch screen may provide a UI between the apparatus and a user. For example the touch screen may include a touch detection surface a sensor or a sensor set which detects a user s input based on a haptic contact or a tactile contact. The touch screen and the display controller may detect a contact a movement of such contact or a release of contact on the touch screen and convert such detected contact into an interaction with the UI graphic at least one soft key icon web page or image displayed on the touch screen . According to an aspect a contact address between the touch screen and a user may correspond to a user s finger a voluntary object such as a stylus or an appendage. According to an aspect the UI is designed to operate by a contact mainly based on a user s finger and gesture which is less accurate than the input by the stylus since the former has a larger contact area on the touch screen . In this case the apparatus may analyze a finger based rough input as a location or command of an accurate pointer or cursor to perform a desired operation.

The touch screen may display at least one graphic as a UI. According to an aspect a user may contact touch and select at least one graphic by using at least one of his her fingers. According to another aspect if a user releases the contact of the at least one graphic the at least one graphic may be selected. According to an aspect a user s gesture may include a touch to select a graphic or an area relating to the graphic a tap which is a gesture touching and releasing the touch to execute a graphic application or receive another graphic a double tap increasing or decreasing the graphic a hold maintaining a touch for predetermined time to receive a detailed menu relating to the graphic a touch and move touching and moving left to right right to left or up and down and down and up or releasing such touch to scroll an item list a flick or swipe touching moving and releasing such touch within short time to move to a superior or subordinate list relating to the graphic or to execute other useful functions and a drag and drop to move the graphic to a desired location. According to an aspect an accidental contact of the graphic may not select the graphic. For example if the gesture corresponding to the selection is a tap a predetermined application may not be selected by a swipe going over the graphic relating to such application. According to another aspect the apparatus may employ a heuristic method to determine a user s gesture accurately. According to an aspect cumulative data of a user s gesture user s characteristics and pattern may be detected and analyzed by the heuristic method and the apparatus may determine the intent of such user s gesture by using the analyzed data characteristic and pattern.

According to an aspect the touch screen may display a virtual soft keyboard as a UI. A user may select at least one graphic or soft key of the soft keyboard and display at least one symbol on the touch screen . The soft keyboard according to an exemplary embodiment may be adaptive. For example the displayed graphic may be adjusted by a user s action selecting at least one graphic or at least one symbol. At least one application of the apparatus may employ a common keyboard or different keyboards. Accordingly the used soft keyboard may be customized for at least a part of the applications or for each user. For example the at least one soft keyboard according to an exemplary embodiment may be customized for each user on the basis of a word usage record of such user. The soft keyboard may be adjusted to reduce a user s mistake when he she selects at least one graphic and at least one corresponding symbol.

Hereinafter an example of a configuration of the memory which is included in the apparatus will be described in more detail with reference to .

According to an aspect a software component which is stored in the memory may include an operating system OS a communication module or an instruction set a social networking module or an instruction set a commerce service module or an instruction set a location based service LBS module or an instruction set an interaction module or an instruction set a sensor module or an instruction set a graphic module or an instruction set a text input module or an instruction set and an application or an instruction set .

According to an aspect the communication module the social networking module the commerce service module the LBS module the interaction module the sensor module the graphic module or the text input module may be included in the OS . For example the communication module the social networking module the commerce service module the LBS module the interaction module the sensor module the graphic module or the text input module may provide an interface for the application to access hardware or software components or control a system task relating to the application .

According to another aspect the communication module the social networking module the commerce service module the LBS module the interaction module the sensor module the graphic module or the text input module may be included in the application . For example the communication module the social networking module the commerce service module the LBS module the interaction module the sensor module the graphic module or the text input module may include a driver of a software component and or hardware component or perform an operation of the software component and or hardware component in association with the OS .

Like an embedded OS such as Darwin Linux Unix OSX Windows bada one of mobile OSs provided by Samsung Electronics a Korean company or VxWorks the OS includes various software components and or drivers to control and manage general system tasks including memory management storage device control and power control and enables a communication between the various hardware and software components.

The OS according to an exemplary embodiment may include layers of a kernel a device a service and a framework .

The device may include platform functions of the apparatus provided by a device OS a graphic and multimedia function and communication components. For example the platform functions may include telephony security graphics or events and window management.

The service may include service oriented functions which are provided by application engines and server assisted components. By the service which includes contact or messaging engines the application engines may be provided. For example the server assisted functions may be provided by web service components which are connected to service components of the bada server. As above the applications may manage data stored in remote servers including geographical information or user presence information through the server assisted functions. The server assisted functions may be accessed by an Application Programming Interface API of the framework .

The framework may include an open API framework of bada. The framework may include an application framework as well as interfaces and classes accessing functions of lower layers. The application framework may provide application life cycle management event handling or an application control function. The interfaces may be provided by the open API framework. The open API framework may include basic interfaces which are necessary for data handling utilities basic functions and application status or application generating a graphic user interface. The API framework may include not only interfaces enabling access to services provided by lower layers but also user interface or multimedia communication internationalization location security commerce or web browsing interfaces.

The communication module enables a communication with other devices through at least one external port and may include various software components to process data received by the RF circuit and or the external port . The external port such as a universal serial bus USB or FireWire may be directly connected to other devices or indirectly connected thereto through a network such as the Internet or wireless LAN .

The social networking module enables a communication with other devices or a network server through the at least one external port and may include various software components to process data received by the RF circuit and or the external port . The social networking module may share user presence information and the like with other application users or manage user profiles in association with the communication module . The social networking module may provide an interface for the application to share user presence information with other application users or manage user profiles. Also the social networking module or an interface of the social networking module may include a mechanism through which application users gather and use a social networking service on the Internet.

The commerce service module enables a communication with other devices or a network server through at least one external port and may include various software components to process data received from the RF circuit and or the external port . The commerce service module may be in association with the communication module . The commerce service module may operate for a user to sell or purchase goods e.g. game items or applications through a communication network or provide an interface which supports such operation to the application .

The LBS module enables a communication with other devices or a network server through at least one external port and may include various software components to process data received from the RF circuit and or the external port . The LBS module may be in association with the communication module . The LBS module may transmit or receive geographical information e.g. major landmarks stores map data or geographical coding services through a communication network or process geographical information to be provided to a user or a network server. The LBS module may provide the application with an interface including functions using geographical information.

The interaction module may provide a user with a visual auditory or tactile feedback as a response to a user s motion or touch or touch gesture a response to a detect of a user s shape face or body or a response to a preset event.

For example upon receiving a touch from the touch screen the interaction module may include a software component which provides a user with various vibrations patterns as a haptic function to feedback a tactile response depending on contact by touch release of contact size of a contact point speed acceleration direction change of size or change of direction through the another I O controller and or a vibration device not shown included in the another I O device . The interaction module may provide an effect as if the screen is shaking together with the graphic module or the display controller to increase the vibration. Upon receiving a new message from the instant messaging module as a preset event the interaction module may provide a vibration or a visual feedback together with the another I O controller a vibration device not shown the graphic module or the display controller .

If the interaction module together with the sensor controller the optical sensor included in the sensor and or the sensor module recognizes a user s shape and determines that the recognized user is a user registered with the apparatus it may provide a feedback including a preset sound voice or preset visual stimulus in association with the audio circuit the graphic module or the display controller . The interaction module may provide an interface to enable the application to use the feedback.

The sensor module may process data acquired from the optical sensor the proximity sensor the accelerometer the GPS sensor the magnetic sensor the tilt sensor the ambient sensor or the weather sensor or provide an interface to enable the application to use the foregoing data.

For example the sensor module may acquire location information of the apparatus by using data received through the GPS sensor and provide various applications with the location information. The sensor module may provide the telephone module with the location information acquired through the GPS sensor for a location based call or provide the camera module and or blogging module with the information as metadata such as photo video. The sensor module may provide the map module or an application providing a location based service such as navigation and or the LBS module with the location information acquired through the GPS sensor

The sensor module may provide the weather module with data acquired from the ambient sensor or the weather sensor . The sensor module may provide the graphic module or the display controller with data acquired from the optical sensor to change a brightness of a graphic or adjust a brightness of a backlight of the screen.

The graphic module includes various known software components to render and display a graphic on the touch screen including a component to change a brightness of the displayed graphic. Graphic used herein means any voluntary object which is displayed including a text a web page an icon such as a user interface object including a soft key a digital image a video and animation.

The text input module may be a component of the graphic module . The text input module may provide a soft keyboard to various applications e.g. a contact address module an e mail client module an instant messaging module the blogging module the browser module or other voluntary applications which need a text input to input a text or an interface which activates an input module of a physical keyboard e.g. Qwerty keyboard .

The application may include the following module or an instruction set or a subset or superset thereof the contact address module also referred to as address book or contact point the telephone module the video conference module the e mail client module the instant messaging IM module the blogging module the camera module for still and or video images an image management module a video player module a music player module or a video music player module integrating the video player module and the music player module a note module the browsing module a map module a calendar module the weather module a stock module a calculator module an alarm clock module a dictionary module a search module or a news module.

The memory may include a word processing module a JAVA module an encoding module a digital authority management module a voice recognition module or a voice replication module as the application .

The contact address module may be used to manage an address book or contact address together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module . For example the contact address module may add names on the address book delete names from the address book connect telephone number e mail address physical address or other information with names connect name and image classify or sort names initiate communication by the telephone module the video conference module the e mail client module or the IM module or provide telephone number or e mail address to enable the initiation of communication.

The telephone module may operate together with the RF circuit the audio circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module . For example the telephone module may input characters corresponding to telephone number access at least one of telephone numbers of the contact address module revise the input telephone number dial each telephone number perform dialog or release connection or hang up if the dialog is over. As described above wireless communication may employ any of a plurality of communication standards protocols and technologies.

The video conference module may initiate perform and end a video conference between a user and at least one conference attendee together with the RF circuit the audio circuit the touch screen the display controller the optical sensor the sensor controller the interaction module the graphic module the text input module the contact address module and or the telephone module .

The e mail client module may generate transmit receive and manage e mail together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module . The email client module may generate transmit and receive e mail including still or video images acquired through the image management module and or the camera module .

The IM module may operate together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module . For example the IM module may input characters corresponding to an instant message revise the input character transmit and receive each instant message. The transmitted and or received instant message may include a graphic a photo an audio file a video file and or other attachment supported by an MMS and or Enhanced Messaging Service EMS . Instant messaging used herein may refer to both a telephone based message such as a message transmitted through SMS or MMS and an Internet based message such as a message transmitted through XMPP SIMPLE or IMPS.

The blogging module may transmit to or receive from a blog e.g. a user s blog a text a still image a video and or other graphics together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the text input module the image management module the browsing module and or the social networking module .

The camera module may operate together with the touch screen the display controller the optical sensor the sensor controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the image management module . For example the camera module may capture a video including a still image or a video stream to store them in the memory modify the property of the still image or the video or delete such still image or video from the memory .

The image management module may operate together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the text input module and or the camera module . For example the image management module may arrange modify manipulate label or delete a still image and or video image or display and store such still image and or video image as a digital slide show or an album.

The video music player module may include a video player module. The video player module may display a video on the touch screen or an external display connected through the external port or play such video together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the RF circuit and or the audio circuit .

The video music player module may include a music player module. The music player module may play music stored and recorded in at least one file format including MP3 wma and AAC file and other sound files together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the audio circuit the RF circuit and or the browsing module .

The note module may generate and manage a note or a to do list together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module .

The browsing module may perform the Internet browsing including searching linking receiving and displaying a web page or a part of the web page and an attachment linked to the web page and other files together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module .

The map module may receive display modify or store data on e.g. driving direction stores in a particular location or adjacent stores and relevant sites location based data and other map related data and maps together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the text input module the sensor module the LBS module and or the browsing module .

The calendar module may generate display and store a calendar and relevant data e.g. calendar entry and a to do list together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module .

The weather module the stock module the calculator module the alarm clock module and or the dictionary module may operate together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the text input module the communication module the sensor module and or the browsing module . The foregoing modules may be applications which provide weather information stock information or calculator alarm clock or dictionary function.

The search module may search a text music sound image video and or other files stored in the memory and matching at least one search condition such as at least one search word designated by a user together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module .

The news module may operate together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the RF circuit the communication module the social networking module and or the text input module . For example the news module may receive a web address designated by a user a network address an html xml RSS file including news channel articles or a text about a blog or images or Digital Rights Management DRM files and other data in the network or of an external device or download such data from the network or the external device to the memory and provide a user with such data.

The foregoing modules and applications may correspond to an instruction set to perform at least one of the functions described above. Such modules i.e. an instruction set do not need to be realized as an individual software program procedure or module and various subsets of such modules may be integrated or rearranged according to various exemplary embodiments. For example the video music player module may be a single module or may be classified into a video player module and a music player module. According to some exemplary embodiments the memory may store therein the foregoing modules and the subset of a data configuration. The memory may further store modules and data configuration which are not described above.

According to an aspect an area of the screen may include a status area a main area and a command area .

The status area may be provided in an upper part of the touch screen and provide information relating the status of the apparatus . For example the status information may include connection information and system event information. The connection information may include an icon or graphic relating to a signal intensity Wi Fi connection Bluetooth connection and call connection. The system event information may include an icon or graphic relating to time a residual amount level of a battery applications on execution execution of music or radio reception of message profile and alarm setting. Such icons may have priority and may be sequentially provided in a left or right side on the status area according to the priority. According to an aspect an icon which has a lower priority may be hidden while an icon which has a higher priority may be displayed always.

On the main area at least one content which accounts for most of the touch screen and provided by the apparatus may be displayed. In an upper part of the main area information relating to at least one content or a UI relating to at least one content may be provided. For example the content related information may include a title of a content a command name which is executed in a previous screen a name or location of a category which includes a currently displayed content. The content related UI may include a tab or folder to move to another content at the same level as the content. According to an aspect if at least one content is scrolled on the main area the content related information or content related UI provided in an upper side of the main area may hold its location on the main area regardless of a scroll gesture.

The command area may be provided in a lower part of the touch screen and provide e.g. a UI such as at least one of soft keys and and an option menu . According to an aspect the command area may be used as a part of the main area usually and provide the soft keys and or the option menu depending on circumstances e.g. when a user contacts moves or releases such contact . The soft keys and may be provided to perform useful functions relating to an application on execution. For example the soft keys and may include a search function a function returning to a previous screen a function canceling an operation being executed and a function adding a new category. The soft keys and may be provided in a left side or right side of the command area and include at least one key in proportion to the number of available functions. The soft keys and may include various graphics e.g. icons and texts which are intuitive and easy to understand. The option menu may provide an option with respect to a content displayed on the main area or to an application being executed. For example if a user selects the option menu the option menu may provide a soft keyboard having at least one symbol displayed on the main area or at least one available function or detailed information of contents on the main area .

The apparatus may include at least one physical UI together with the virtual UI. According to an aspect the apparatus may include a power lock button a home button a volume up button and a volume down button. The power lock button may lock or unlock the apparatus or turn on or off the apparatus when pressed long. The home button may be navigated by a voluntary application of an application set executable in the apparatus e.g. main page application . The volume up button and the volume down button may increase and decrease volume respectively. According to another exemplary embodiment the apparatus may further include a send button a camera button and an end button. The send button may display a telephone log or connect the latest received telephone call when pressed long. The camera button may photograph by executing a camera application or using the optical sensor of the apparatus . The end button may end a currently executed application and return to the main page or end a call connection when a user is on the phone. A set of functions corresponding to the foregoing button may be performed by using the same physical button or functions corresponding to a single button may be distributed and performed by different physical buttons. The function of the physical button may be realized as a virtual button on the touch screen . According to another exemplary embodiment the apparatus may receive a verbal input through the audio circuit as a physical UI to enable or disable some functions.

Hereinafter an example of a screen configuration including the command area in the apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment will be described with reference to .

The command area in may include an area overlaying the main area . For example the main area may take the whole or a part of the screen . For example if the apparatus operates in an entire screen mode the status area may be hidden and the entire area displayed on the screen may replace the main area . The command area which includes at least one of the soft keys and and or the option menu may overlay the area of the screen excluding the status area . The display controller in may control the at least one of soft keys and and or the option menu to overlay the main menu or an application displayed on the main area . The memory in may maintain the application driving the at least one of soft keys and and or the option menu or software modules to . For example the at least one of soft keys and may be components operating together with the API of the OS at least one of applications the touch screen the display controller the graphic module and or the interaction module . The apparatus may detect an occurrence of a preset event through the soft keys and or perform an operation corresponding to the occurrence of the event.

The command area may include at least one of soft keys and and or the option menu . The soft keys and may correspond to the M number of option s among the N number of options in a menu of the application displayed on the main menu e.g. one of the applications in . The display controller may control the soft keys and to overlay the main area or the application displayed on the main area . N and M are integer and M is the same as or smaller than N. For example if M is 2 two of the options of the applications may map the soft keys and .

If N is larger than M the option menu may be displayed. As a response to a touch gesture of a user selecting the option menu the option menu may provide a UI to display on the screen of the apparatus a window including the N M number of options that are not included in the M number of option s among the N number of options.

The M number of soft keys and may be provided in lower left and right sides of the screen and labeled as at least one of icons and text displaying the M number of options. For example the soft key may be provided in a lower left side of the screen and display a function of adding contents or items. The soft key may include a icon or graphic displaying addition. The soft key may be provided in a lower right side of the screen and display a search function. The soft key may include a magnifying glass icon or graphic displaying a search function. The option menu may be provided between the lower left side and the lower right side and take a smaller area than the M number of soft keys and .

Referring to an example of a screen configuration including soft keys in the apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment will be described.

A screen a screen or a screen in is an example of a screen configuration displayed on the apparatus .

A soft key of the screen may display a function transmitting through Bluetooth. The soft key may include Send via Bluethooth as a text or graphic displaying the foregoing transmission function. The soft key may display a genre selecting function. The soft key may include Categories as a text or graphic displaying a genre.

A main area of the screen may include a display of the contact address module in as an example. The soft key may display a function of adding a new item. That is the soft key may display a function that adds a new contact address to the contact list. The soft key may include New as a text or graphic displaying the function of adding the new item. The soft key may display a contact address searching function. If the soft key is selected the search function of the contact address module may be performed or the search module may be in association therewith. The soft key may include Search as a text or graphic displaying the search function.

The main area of the screen may include a display of a user setting of the text input module in as an example. For example the user setting of the text input module may provide a UI to display a current setting such as a font and a font size or change the setting. If a menu of the application e.g. the text input module has one option the soft key may be a single key. For example the soft key may display a return function to navigate a menu. That is the soft key may receive an input to change to another setting screen change to a screen of another application or to return to a previous screen. The soft key may include Back as a text or graphic displaying a new return function.

A main area of a screen in may include a display of a text which is input through a soft keyboard of the text input module in as an example. The soft key may display a storage function to store a text as a file. The soft key may include Save as a text or graphic displaying the storage function. The soft key may display a function of deleting the text temporarily stored in the memory in or a function of canceling an inputting a text or a storage of a file corresponding to the text. The soft key may include Cancel as a text or graphic displaying the cancel function.

The main area of the screen in may include a display of a particular application driven together with the text input module to receive a password. The soft key may display a completion of input of a text . Considering security of the password or . may be displayed when the password is input. If the soft key is selected the text may be transmitted as an input value of the particular application. The soft key may include Done as a text or graphic displaying a completion of input function. The soft key may display a function of deleting the text temporarily stored in the memory in or canceling the input of the text . The soft key may include Cancel as a text or graphic displaying the cancel function.

Referring to an example of a screen configuration of the option menu in the apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment will be described.

A screen in may display a window including options as a response to a touch gesture of a user selecting the option menu in . For example if the option menu is selected through a touch gesture such as tap swipe or drag a graphic displaying the option menu may be displayed together with the window . Each option may map the item and be displayed. If the item further includes a subordinate option a symbol displaying a view of options subordinate to the item may be added. If the symbol is selected a popup window including the item displaying the subordinate options may be displayed on the screen .

A screen in may include a window including items and mapping options as a response to the selection of the option menu . An area of the item or may be different in size from an area of the item . A displaying method of the window on the screen may include a visual effect as if the window soars upward from the bottom of the screen.

A main area of a screen in may include a display of an application e.g. the video music player module in . The screen may include a display of a window including an item mapping an option as a response to the selection of the option menu . If the item further includes a subordinate option a symbol which displays viewing options subordinate to the item may be added.

A main area of a screen in may include a display of an application e.g. the IM module the blogging module or the real time messaging module not shown in . The real time messaging module may operate together with the RF circuit the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module and or the text input module . The real time messaging module may provide an interface to transmit and receive multimedia data including a text in real time between a user and a counterpart. For example the real time messaging module may include an information display area of a counterpart a contact add icon an icon displaying a received message a frame displaying a received message and a frame preparing displaying a message to be sent to a counterpart. The screen may include a display of a window including an item mapping an option as a response to the selection of the option menu . If the item further includes a subordinate option a symbol displaying a view of an option subordinate to the item may be displayed additionally.

An item or of the list may include a name of the item or information of the item. The name or information of the item may be displayed as a text or graphic. An item or may include an icon or image of an item. An item or may include a check box displaying selection non selection of the item. A boundary of an area displaying the name of the item and the area displaying the check box and a boundary of an area displaying different responses to a touch gesture in the area of the item may be displayed additionally in the area of the item . An item or may include a radio button displaying selection non selection of the item or selection non selection of one of a particular item group.

Hereinafter an example of a screen configuration of a list in the apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment will be described with reference to to .

The memory in may maintain types of a list available in the apparatus . The types of the list may include a basic type by which a plurality of items is arranged sequentially in the list a grouping type by which a plurality of items are grouped and arranged according to a preset classification standard in the list and or an expandable type by which additional information or subordinate items with respect to the selected items of the plurality of items are inserted to the list of the plurality of items. The memory may maintain an application which drives the list. The list driving the application may include the types of the list.

The processor may detect the type of the list included in the application. The display controller may receive from the memory a display control method corresponding to the detected type of the list among the types of the list and display the list on the screen by the received method. As the type of the list is used in the apparatus a program developer may develop an application including the list more conveniently. As an operation or control function relating to the type of the list is optimized the apparatus may provide a reliable interface that may operate without failure.

A screen in may include a main area displaying a list and soft keys and . The screen which displays the list thereon may be divided into a plurality of areas and the item may be provided in each of the plurality of areas. The basic list may arrange a plurality of items in the preset order in the area of the list.

If a plurality of items of the list overlays the M number of soft keys and the display controller in may insert a dummy area in a preset size to one of an upper part and a lower part of the item corresponding to the overlaying area and move a location of the item corresponding to the overlapping area on the screen . Then a user may identify information of the item conveniently. A height of the dummy area may be a height of the item or a height of the option menu in . The height of the area may be a value of zero or more or one or less of the item or zero or more or up to the height of the soft keys and . As the dummy area is inserted the height or width of the area of the items of the list may be adjusted. For example as the display area of the list is reduced as much as the height the height of the item may be reduced partially.

If at least a part of the area of the items among the area of the plurality of items is covered by the M number of soft keys and the processor may determine whether to select the item as a response to a touch gesture in an area excluding the area of the M number of soft keys and in the area of the item . As above even if the touch screen of the apparatus has a small screen the apparatus may provide an interface to more efficiently utilize the area of the screen .

If a screen illustrated in does not include a soft key it may include a main area which is filled with a list excluding a status area. The screen which displays thereon the list may be divided into a plurality of areas and the item may be provided in each of the plurality of areas. The list may include an empty area which does not include item information.

In a screen in a basic list which is included in a main area may be divided into a plurality of areas and may include an item . As a response to a touch gesture in an area of the item the item may be enabled or highlighted and displayed on the screen . If the touch gesture is distant from the touch screen in or far from the touch screen at a predetermined distance the item may be disabled or unhighlighted and displayed on the screen . If a touch gesture occurs within an area of the item the screen may display thereon a name and or a content of the item . The screen may be displayed following the display of the screen or the screen .

A screen may include a main area displaying the grouping list soft keys and an option menu and or a dummy area . An application which corresponds to the main area may include e.g. the contact address module in . The grouping list may display a plurality of items grouped and arranged according to a preset classification standard. For example the grouping list which is driven in the contact address module may include a display of the group and or a display of the group in the alphabetical order of item information. The display of the group or may be provided at the head of items including the item within the scope of the concerned group.

A screen may include a main area and or a soft key displaying the grouping list. An application which corresponds to the main area may include e.g. the contact address module in or an integrated communication description module not shown . The integrated communication description module may include a telephone tab displaying a call description using the telephone module a message tab displaying a message exchange description using the IM module and or an all tab displaying all of the call description and the message exchange description. For example the grouping list which is driven in the integrated communication description module may include a display of a group and or a display of a group according to received and transmitted messages or date of telephone call. The display of the group i.e. an item which may include counterpart information corresponding to the transmitted or received message or telephone call according to the date today may be arranged below the display of the group . The counterpart information may include an identification symbol to identify transmission and reception or an identification symbol to identity a message and a telephone call.

A screen may include a main area displaying the grouping list and or a soft key . An application which is displayed in the main area may include e.g. the text input module in . The text input module may provide a UI to display a current setting of a font a type and a letter size or to change the setting. A check box may display an item of the group of the type set as a current type.

A screen in may include a main area displaying an expandable list soft keys and an option menu and or a dummy area . An application which corresponds to the main area may include the contact address module in . The expandable list may refer to a list into which an area including additional information or a subordinate item of an item and an item selected among a plurality of items including an item is inserted. If the item or includes additional information or subordinate items to be stated in the expandable list a symbol or may be added to the item or . The symbol of the selected item may be different from the symbol of the non selected item .

In a screen in an expandable list of a main area may be divided into a plurality of areas and include an item . The item may include a symbol displaying additional information or a subordinate item. As a response to a touch gesture of the item the additional information or the subordinate item of the item may be displayed in a lower side of the item on the screen as if unfold. The item may include a symbol different from the symbol . As a response to a touch gesture of the item on the screen the additional information or the subordinate item of the item may disappear from the screen and a symbol which is the same as the symbol on the screen may be displayed for the item

Hereinafter an example of a screen configuration of a list including an operation progress status in the apparatus according to an exemplary embodiment will be described with reference to .

A list including the operation progress status may be driven in each of available lists in the apparatus . The list including the operation progress status may also be driven regardless of the type of the list. For example an application a software module or an interface displaying an operation progress status of at least one item of the list is provided the list including the operation progress status may be driven.

A screen in may include a main area displaying an application driving the list software keys and an option menu and or a dummy area . The application which drives the list may include e.g. the news module in . The news module may operate together with the touch screen the display controller the interaction module the graphic module the RF circuit the communication module the social networking module and or the text input module .

For example the memory in may maintain an application e.g. the news module which drives the list of a plurality of items. The screen which displays the list thereon may be divided into a plurality of areas and an item or may be provided in each of the plurality of areas. The display controller may display the list on the screen . The processor may detect a change of the operation progress status for the plurality of items. The display controller may provide a visual feedback corresponding to an operation progress status of at least one item in the area of at least one of items and the change of the operation progress status of which is detected among the plurality of items.

For example the visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status may include a percentage or a fraction or displaying a progress status for downloading data of the item or from a network to the memory . For example the fraction or may display the number of currently downloaded articles with respect to the number of entire articles to be downloaded from a news channel displayed by the item or . An item displaying a completion of the operation progress status or an item the operation progress of which is suspended cancelled may include a percentage or a fraction or displaying the operation progress status corresponding to the item. An icon of the item displaying the completion of the operation progress status or the item the operation progress of which is suspended cancelled may be different from an icon of the item or the operation of which is in progress.

As a response to a preset touch gesture e.g. flick or swipe detected on the list or the selection of the soft key or the apparatus may provide a visual feedback different from that on the screen . For example the display controller may display a progress bar in an area of the at least one item or corresponding to the operation progress status of the at least one item or whose change is detected.

For example if a flick is input to the list of the screen a progress bar or may be displayed on the screen of corresponding to the operation progress status of the item or whose operation is in progress. The progress bar or may be included in the list and take an area in the same location as that of the item or corresponding thereto. The progress bar or may be sequentially displayed in an upper part a lower part or a preset location in the order of displaying the item or whose operation is in progress. For example the progress bar of the item may be provided on a top of the list and the progress bar of the item may be provided below the progress bar on the screen .

In a screen in a visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status may hold a location of a plurality of areas included in the list and display a progress bar or in an area of the item or the change of the operation progress status of which is detected. The progress bar or may take a part of the area of the item or the change of which is detected. The progress bar or and information of the item or name of item or icon may be adjusted or determined to be identified in terms of location and or size. In a screen in a progress bar or may take all of the area of the item or the change of which is detected. In a screen in a progress bar or may overlay at least a part of the area of the item or in a semi transparent type while maintaining the display of the item or the change of which is detected.

The display controller may undo or change the visual feedback refer to which is provided to the item displaying a completion of an operation progress status in an area of the item displaying the completion of the operation progress status among at least one of the items and the change of which is detected. For example if the operation progress status of the item is changed from 3 15 to 10 15 a progress bar corresponding to the operation progress status may be displayed on the screen in . If the operation progress status of the item is changed from 3 5 to 5 5 and displays a completion of the operation the progress bar as the visual feedback provided is undone and the item may be changed to the item and displayed. The item may include an icon and or a fraction displaying the completion of the operation progress.

If the operation progress status of the item is changed from 3 15 to 10 15 on a screen in a progress bar may overlay the screen corresponding to the operation progress status. If the operation progress status of the item is changed from 3 5 to 5 5 and display a completion of the operation the progress bar provided as the visual feedback may be undone and the item may be changed to the item and displayed.

Hereinafter a method for providing a UI displaying the list according to an exemplary embodiment will be described with reference to .

At operation the memory of the apparatus in may maintain the application driving the list for the plurality of items the screen which displays the list thereon is divided into a plurality of areas and the item is provided in each of the plurality of areas. The memory may maintain the types of the list available in the apparatus . The types of the list may include the basic type in which the plurality of items is arranged sequentially the grouping type in which the plurality of items is grouped and arranged according to a preset classification standard and the expandable type in which the additional information or the subordinate item of the item selected among the plurality of items is inserted into the list of the plurality of items.

At operation the processor of the apparatus may detect the type of the list included in the application that drives the list.

At operation the display controller of the apparatus may receive from the memory the display control method corresponding to the type of the list detected from the types of the list and display the list on the screen.

At operation the apparatus may control the list to be displayed on the screen or display such list on the screen. The display controller of the apparatus may control the M number of soft keys to overlay the list corresponding to the M number of options M is a preset integer or less among the N number of options included in the menu of the application on the screen. If N is larger than M the option menu may be added to the screen the option menu displays a window including the N M number of options excluding the M number of options from the N number of options as a response to a touch gesture of a user selecting the option menu . The M number of soft keys may be provided in the lower left side and the lower right side of the screen and labeled by at least one of an icon and a text displaying the M number of options. The option menu may be provided in the lower left and right sides and take a smaller area than the M number of soft keys.

At operation if an overlaying area between the plurality of items included in the list and the M number of soft keys occurs the display controller of the apparatus may insert the dummy area in a preset size into one of the upper and lower parts of the item corresponding to the overlaying area and move the location of the item corresponding to the overlaying area on the screen. If the M number of soft keys overlays at least a part of the area of the first item among the areas of the plurality of items the processor of the apparatus may determine whether to select the first item as the response to the touch gesture in the area excluding the area of the M number of soft keys in the area of the first item.

At operation the processor of the apparatus may detect the change of the operation progress status of the plurality of items.

After the operation the display controller of the apparatus may provide the visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status of at least one item the change of which is detected in the area of the at least one item the change of the operation progress status of which is detected among the plurality of items. Providing the visual feedback may include displaying the progress bar in the area of the at least one item the change of the operation progress status of which is detected corresponding to the operation progress status of at least one item the change of the operation progress status of which is detected. Also providing the visual feedback may include undoing the visual feedback provided for the item displaying the completion of the operation in the area of the item displaying the completion of the operation progress status among the at least one of items the change of the operation progress status of which is detected. Referring to the operations to the method for providing the visual feedback to the item the change of the operation progress status of which is detected will be described in more detail.

At operation the processor of the apparatus may determine whether the item is the item the change of the operation progress status of which is detected. If the change of the operation progress status of the item is not detected the display controller of the apparatus may at operation maintain the display of the area of the item the change of the operation progress status of which is not detected.

If the change of the operation progress status of the item is detected the processor of the apparatus may at operation determine whether the operation progress status of the item the change of the operation progress status of which is detected displays a completion of the operation. If the operation progress status of the item does not display the completion of the operation the display controller of the apparatus may at operation provide the visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status of the item. Providing the visual feedback may include displaying the progress bar in the area of the item corresponding to the operation progress status of the item.

If the operation progress status of the item displays the completion of the operation the display controller of the apparatus may at operation undo the visual feedback provided to the item the operation progress status of which displays the completion.

The foregoing exemplary embodiments may be realized as a program command to be executed through various computer means and recorded in a medium read by a computer. The medium read by the computer may solely or collectively include a program command a data file and a data configuration. The program command which is recorded in the medium is specifically designed and configured for an exemplary embodiment but may be known and accessible by the skilled in computer software.

A method and an apparatus is provided for a user to more intuitively and conveniently identify an operation progress status of items by providing a visual feedback corresponding to the operation progress status of the items in an area of the items if a change of the operation progress status of the item including a list is detected.

A method and an apparatus is provided to provide an environment in which an application including a list is developed more conveniently and to provide a reliable user interface by using a type of a preset list having optimized operations or control functions relating to the list.

A method and an apparatus is provided for a user to conveniently identify information of items by inserting a dummy area in a preset size into one of an upper part and a lower part of the items corresponding to an overlaying area between a list and a soft key and moving a location of the items corresponding to the overlaying area on a screen if the overlaying area between the list and the soft key occurs.

A method and an apparatus is provided to more efficiently utilize an area of a screen by determining selection or non selection of items as a response to a touch gesture in an area excluding a soft key area from the item area corresponding to an overlaying area if the overlaying area between a list and a soft key occurs.

The foregoing exemplary embodiments and advantages are merely exemplary and are not to be construed as limiting. The present teaching can be readily applied to other types of apparatuses. Also the description of exemplary embodiments is intended to be illustrative and not to limit the scope of the claims and many alternatives modifications and variations will be apparent to those skilled in the art.

