---

title: Production of UHMWPE sheet materials
abstract: UHMWPE panels of large width may be ram extruded from a slit die in a stable process, by restraining a panel which exits the die below the crystalline melt temperature against movement away from the die by a back pressure device, so as to exert a back pressure between the back pressure device and the die, the back pressure device preferably constructed of a plurality of differentially adjustable elements so as to be able to compensate for changes in processing characteristics over time. Vertically restraining UHMWPE panels as they further cool also greatly improves product characteristics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07981349&OS=07981349&RS=07981349
owner: Quadrant EPP AG
number: 07981349
owner_city: Lenzburg
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100611
---
This is a divisional application of copending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 491 416 filed Jul. 21 2006. The disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

The present invention is directed to the production of sheets of ultra high molecular weight polyethylene in widths preferably greater than about 40 cm by ram extrusion.

Conventional polyethylene polymers with which many are familiar i.e. low and high density polyethylene are waxy solids not known for exceptional strength properties. Also due to their relative softness while generally lubricious they are easily abraded. Ultra high molecular weight polyethylene UHMWPE on the other hand is an exceptionally strong and durable polymer totally unlike its poorer relatives.

UHMWPE is prepared by special polymerization processes in which the polyethylene chains acquire an exceptionally high molecular weight typically having number average molecular weights of from 1.5 10to 1 10daltons supplied as a resin powder. UHMWPE also includes those polymers defined in ASTM D4020 05 D6712 01 and ISO 11542 2. While generally homopolymeric in nature UHMWPE also includes copolymers having limited amounts of other copolymerizable comonomers. In the case of copolymer UHMWPE the aforementioned ASTM and ISO requirements should be met. It is their very long polymer chains which make these polymers unique. However this same feature is also the cause of major processing problems. While ordinary polyethylene can be melt extruded even polyethylene of very high molecular weight attempts to melt extrude UHMWPE have been largely unsuccessful despite much research in this area and virtually all UHMWPE products are produced by compression molding or ram extrusion. As indicated by U.S. Pat. No. 5 286 576 processing methods applicable to conventional thermoplastics such as continuous extrusion calendaring and injection molding are generally inapplicable to UHMWPE.

Thus for example U.S. Pat. No. 5 422 061 discloses the manufacture of sliding members by screw extrusion of UHMWPE from the melt. However for the process to work mixtures of UHMWPE lower molecular weight polyethylene PE and lubricants must be employed. Considerable loss in mechanical properties thus results due to the dilution of the UHMWPE with lower molecular weight species. Further losses in properties are caused by shear degradation in the extruder.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 399 308 discloses melt extrusion through a die whose final cross section is considerably reduced as compared with the diameter of the extruder and wherein a very low elongational velocity gradient is maintained. However despite these requirements only very high molecular weight PE and UHMWPE in the lowest molecular weight range about 1.5 10 are useful. U.S. Pat. No. 5 449 484 discloses a screw geometry for a single screw extruder said to be useable with PE resins having molecular weights greater than 1 10. However large profiles cannot be made using such a melt extrusion process.

The problems associated with processing of UHMWPE are due in part to the gel like nature of the polymer above its crystalline melt temperature roughly 135 C. 150 C. While ordinary polyethylene is a viscous molasses consistency liquid at such temperatures UHMWPE is a swollen gel which has an extremely high viscosity and which exerts exceptional frictional stress against the walls of extruders and the like. The problems associated with UHMWPE are described quite clearly by U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 883 631 and 3 887 319. For the reasons discussed therein ram extrusion and compression molding have thus far been the only processes of producing UHMWPE products which are used extensively.

In compression molding UHMWPE powder is introduced into a coffin like mold of very thick section. A thick cover which fits within the mold cavity is then placed on top of the powder and the whole assembly is heated to above the crystalline melt temperature while being compressed to very high pressure. The molds are then slowly and uniformly cooled and the product generally in the form of a thick slab is demolded. For thin stock for example of 1 cm to 3 cm thickness the thick slabs are skived or planed to produce thin stock. The skiving process requires an extra process step and can result in a product that is wavy. As can be seen compression molding is a cost intensive and labor intensive method of producing UHMWPE products. However it is essentially the only process which can be used to make panels or sheets of large width and is thus still a much used process.

A continuous compression process for the production of thin gauge UHMWPE sheet has been used by Crown Plastics Harrison Ohio U.S.A. In this non extrusion process a roller belt press previously manufactured by Hoover Ball and Bearing Co. as the Lam N Hard laminator and as described for use in wood lamination by Tarkow et al. Surface Densification of Wood FPJ18 a 104 107 is used to consolidate UHMWPE powder. However the process thus far has been limited to thin sheets with a maximum thickness of 3 4 mm and relatively narrow widths. Only recently has a 24 inch wide 0.6 m sheet been produced by this method and it is not believed to be possible to produce wider sheets due to the high pressures involved.

Ram extrusion is a unique process which is considerably different from melt extrusion. Ram extrusion may be illustrated with reference to U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 883 631 3 887 319 and 4 145 175. Despite the fact that the ram extrusion technology disclosed in these references is more than 25 years old there has been only incremental change in ram extrusion processes since that time.

The overall process may be described in relation to which shows schematically in cross section a simple ram extrusion machine for production of a UHMWPE rod. The ram extrusion machine consists of very thick section steel member having a through channel into one end of which is received ram . UHMWPE powder flows gravitationally into channel from hopper . The ram then travels to the left compressing the powder in the channel which is now die channel . This sequence is repeated continuously. Die channel is heated by heaters which surround the die and heats the resin particles to a relatively high temperature for example between 350 F. and 500 F. 177 C. and 260 C. . Temperatures in excess of 500 F. 260 C. are generally avoided since the polymer rapidly oxidizes above this temperature. Oxidized polymer exerts yet more friction with the die and due to the oxidation products have reduced physical characteristics. The ram exerts a pressure up to several thousand lb in and consolidates the heated gel like particles of UHMWPE. The UHMWPE rod exits the die at discrete intervals and at this stage the rod is hot above the crystalline melt temperature and relatively translucent. However at some distance from the die face the polymer has crystallized to an opaque solid.

Ram extrusion has been used to produce round profiles of relatively large diameter e.g. 300 mm and also tubing small profiles of complex shape and boards having a width of up to about 660 mm and thicknesses of e.g. 100 mm. However such boards are far from flat as produced. If flat boards or thin stock is needed the boards are skived. Because of the high friction within the die and consequently the very high pressures involved the ram even though made of very high strength steel may buckle. This is particularly so in parts whose cross section is quite asymmetric and even more so in parts having a substantially rectangular cross section of high aspect ratio. For example a ram for producing a board of 1 cm 30 cm rectangular cross section may exhibit buckling whereas a ram for a thicker board for example 10 cm 30 cm will have virtually no problem in this respect at all. Not only can buckling be destructive of the ram but the distorted ram may scrape the die walls introducing metal particles into the product and altering die geometry.

It would be highly desirable to employ ram extrusion to produce sheets and panels of large width for example 1 to 3 meters in width and of a range of thicknesses in particular in standard thicknesses which can be sold as is without skiving. However attempts to use the ram extrusion process to prepare such sheets and panels meeting the necessary product standards have been largely futile. The failure of others in the past can be attributed to a number of factors. First the nature of UHMWPE is such that there is considerable volume contraction upon both cooling and crystallization. Differential cooling or crystallization generates internal stress as does also differing degrees of polymer orientation. In small profiles or even larger products which are relatively symmetrical these problems are minimal or are to a degree self cancelling. However in large widths these problems manifest themselves as thickness variations bowing warping surface fracture surface irregularities walking edge waviness etc. The larger the width of the product the more difficult is the control of such defects.

Moreover the ram extrusion apparatus itself also has severe shortcomings. The large top and bottom surface areas associated with a slit die coupled with the large internal pressure create forces which are very difficult to control. A slit die of 1 cm height and 1 m width and of 0.5 m length may experience a force of 2.1 10N or more on each half of the die depending upon the internal pressure which is always high. The restraining bolts in this case will have to bear almost 4.4 10lbs. of force. Even when such a die is constructed of high strength stainless steel of for example a 10 cm thickness on each side the die will deflect so much due to the internal pressure that a board with pronounced greater thickness in the middle as opposed to the edges results. Dies of this size and construction will also rupture unless supported by massive restraining structures located exterior to the die.

Unlike symmetrical profiles such as rods tubes square stock or small irregular profiles the large surface area and high aspect ratio of sheets and panels causes them to distort upon cooling below the crystalline melt temperature external to the die. Differences in the rate of cooling and crystallization can cause warping bowing thickness and surface irregularities and the like. Such defects would then require minimally shaving of the surface and machining to size. However some defects for example warp and bow may be impossible to remove.

For all the above reasons it has been considered impossible to produce wide sheets and panels of a quality which is commercially acceptable by ram extrusion.

The present invention pertains to a process for the ram extrusion of wide high aspect ratio UHMWPE sheets or panels from a slit die wherein the uniformity of the sheet is improved by extrusion from a slit die at a temperature less than the crystalline melt temperature while inducing back pressure by means of a back pressure device preferably in conjunction with a means for vertically restraining movement of the flat panel product. The back pressure device preferably has a plurality of pressure adjustable zones distributed across the width and sides of the panel. Pressure adjustable zones are preferably also used on each edge to minimize side to side movement of the extrusion between the top and bottom back pressure device elements.

The ram extrusion process employed by the subject invention upstream from the die is substantially that described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 887 319 3 883 631 and 4 145 175 herein incorporated by reference.

The present invention pertains to the ram extrusion of panels of high width and aspect ratio as described hereinafter. The term panel refers to a substantially flat extrusion. Typically the sharp corners of the nominally rectangular cross section may be rounded and indeed the entire edge portions may be circular elliptical etc. A purely rectangular cross section with sharp corners is generally not desirable due to stress points in the die at such corners. The principle utility of the subject invention is to produce large width sheets of constant thickness this constant thickness extending to a position at or proximate the edge. Thus by the definition of panel as used herein is meant a generally flat sheet of less than 0.050 inch 1.27 mm thickness variation over a central portion of the panel which includes at least 80 of the overall panel width preferably at least 90 of the panel width and most preferably 95 or more of the overall panel width. Thus it would not depart from the spirit of the invention to produce a sheet having a dumbbell or other cross section with edge portions significantly thicker or thinner than the majority of the panel. These portions can easily be removed preferably by the manufacturer but also by the end user by conventional sawing or slicing steps.

In conventional ram extrusion of thick profiles greater than or about 0.5 inches the profile generally exits the die at relatively high temperature above the crystalline melt temperature as indicated by its transparent or translucent nature. It has been discovered that large sheets and panels cannot be made in this manner as severe distortion and other irregularities may occur. However it has also been discovered that even when the panel has cooled to below the crystalline melt temperature while still in the die i.e. by use of a long die or one with cooling zone s near its mouth irregularities of sufficient magnitude to impair commercial value of the product still occur.

Unlike conventional ram extrusion processes wherein the ram extruded product exits the ram extrusion die at high temperature generally far in excess of the crystalline melt temperature in the process of the present invention the die is cooled proximate the exit such that the UHMWPE panel exists the die at a relatively low temperature below the crystalline melt temperature and preferably in the range of ambient to 137 C. more preferably ambient to 79 C. It is believed that under these conditions the considerable volumetric shrinkage which takes place during crystallization of UHMWPE is controlled such that the degree of crystallization of the product is more uniform both in the machine direction and transverse thereto i.e. across the width of the panel.

By the term below the crystalline melt temperature is meant that the surface of the panel is below the crystalline melt temperature of the particular polymer used. Preferably the panel temperature is below the crystalline melt temperature both at the surface and also to a depth of 3 mm into the panel in the thickness direction. Most preferably the entire panel is below the crystalline melt temperature. For any particular panel thickness greater cooling and hence lower temperature throughout the depth of the panel may be achieved by slowing the extrusion speed decreasing coolant temperature by elongating the cooling zones in the machine direction or by any combination thereof.

In order to take advantage of the homogeneity in crystallization and the greater uniformity of product characteristics engendered thereby it is necessary to maintain contact between the panel and the walls of the die prior to the panel s exit therefrom. The die is relatively massive and possesses a great deal of thermal inertia i.e. resistance to changes in temperature. In addition the die is temperature regulated both in the heating and cooling zones. By maintaining contact with the die the thermal inertia is taken advantage of maintaining a uniform temperature and a uniform rate of temperature change in the UHMWPE panel. The result is substantial uniformity in the degree of crystallization.

However numerous factors may encourage loss of contact of the panel with the die. One principle cause of this loss of contact is the differential flow rates experienced at the edges of the die as compared to the central portion of the die. Additional fluctuations may be caused by changes in resin powder composition the temperature of the die proximate the exit particularly uncontrolled temperatures across the width of the die temperature excursions due to fluctuations in coolant temperature and or flow material shrinkage etc.

When the panel loses local contact with the die the rate of crystallization at these localities changes inducing changes in volumetric shrinkage and also inducing stresses which accompany these changes. As a result the panel may warp bow exhibit edge curl or may walk circumscribing a curved path rather than a path parallel to the machine direction a linear path as used herein as it exits from the die. Loss of contact also generates differences in local thickness to the extent that flatness requirements 0.050 inch 1.27 mm preferably 0.030 inch 0.76 mm more preferably 0.020 inch 0.51 mm cannot be met. Since these changes often occur during established runs their correction is needed if a stable process which has a low scrap rate is to be provided.

It has now been surprisingly discovered that contact of the panel with the die walls can be markedly improved by imposing an adjustable back pressure onto the panel which has exited the die. The back pressure is adjustable not only in absolute amount which is generally the least pressure which ensures stable operation but is also differentially adjustable over the width of the panel i.e. transverse to the machine direction.

The back pressure is provided by a back pressure device located proximate to the die exit. It should be noted that the back pressure device causes no or substantially no change in the thickness and or the width of the panel because the panel is a solid at this point being below the crystalline melt temperature. Rather the pressure exerted is a frictional restraint on movement of the panel away from the die and which translates to the die exit and even into the die interior e.g. to the heated portions of the die forcing the UHMWPE to maintain contact with the die walls substantially throughout the length of the die but most importantly over the cooled section proximate the die exit slit.

The location of the back pressure device is preferably as close to the die exit as is conveniently possible. A distance of 1 cm to 20 cm preferably 2 cm to 10 cm is preferable for example. Greater distance may allow for buckling or bowing of the panel due to the back pressure generated particularly with thin panels of high aspect ratio. Such panel distortion may not be easily recoverable and thus close spacing between the backpressure device and the die is preferred.

The position of the plurality of back pressure generating elements across the width direction of the panel is desirably symmetrical transverse to a centerline of the panel in the machine direction but small departures from symmetry can be tolerated. For dies which have been used for extended periods and which exhibit non uniform wear in the die interior purposeful deviation from symmetry may be desired. However assuming a symmetrical and uniform die contour a symmetrical arrangement of pressure generating elements is preferred. Working in tandem with the back pressure device are optional pressure adjustable side guides that help contain and center the extrusion under the back pressure fixture. These work as a guide to hold in position an extrusion that might otherwise naturally tend to move to the left or right under different back pressure settings across the width of the extruded panel.

The back pressure device may take numerous forms so long as the device operates to impede the movement of the UHMWPE panel in the machine direction thus imparting back pressure and is differentially adjustable across the width of the panel such that portions of the panel may experience greater or lesser back pressure than others. For example the device may consist of a row of textured or elastomer coated upper and lower roll pairs distributed across the width of the panel which press against the panel and are frictionally restrained in rotational movement this rotational restraint being adjustable between roll pairs. the rotational restraint may be achieved through the use of electromagnetic braking devices hydraulic devices etc. The textured surfaces of the rollers when used should be such as to avoid leaving an impression on the smooth UHMWPE panel surface. Most preferably however the back pressure device consists of one or a plurality of boards spaced across the width of the panel and a plurality of pressure applying means for example adjustable bolts adjustable spring devices or preferably hydraulic or pneumatic cylinders all of which may be termed pressure actuators. While the boards may be made of numerous materials such as fiberglass or carbon fiber composite materials thermoplastics metal etc. it is highly preferred that the board s be a wood product preferably solid wood lumber or plywood preferably covered with a non marring woven or non woven textile material.

Other back pressure devices include any devices which can retard movement of the extruded panel away from the die such that a back pressure is created. Since the UHMWPE panel is extruded below the melt temperature the panel may be gripped by clamps along the edge may be restrained by servo driven continuous belts etc. For example a plurality of such belts arranged parallel to each other in the machine direction may be used. Pressure may be supplied as well be inflatable bladders including metallic bladders or bellows. These may be appropriately coated to provide the desired amount of sliding friction in order that the panel may advance away from the machine while still being restrained.

The vertical pressure on the back pressure elements is preferably supplied by hydraulic or pneumatic cylinders preferably the latter. For example 4 inch 100 mm air cylinders one or more bearing against each pressure element and operated at up to 100 psig 6.9 bar gauge preferably 25 1.7 bar gauge to 100 psig have been found satisfactory during extrusion of a ca. 1 cm thick by 1.2 m wide panel. Greater flexibility in operation can be achieved if each side of the pressure elements when individual pressure elements are used are independently subjected to pressure. Thus for example each individual upper pressure element which may be slightly in excess of 1 m in length and 0.4 m in width may be actuated by right hand and left hand pairs of pneumatic cylinders. For added pressure these pairs of pneumatic cylinders may be doubled or tripled for example with one pair at the upstream end of the board and one pair at the downstream end.

One example of a back pressure device is shown in in perspective. The die is not shown for clarity. The UHMWPE sheet has exited the die not shown to the right at a temperature below the crystalline melt temperature. The back pressure device consists of two platens in the form of sheets of wood or plywood the upper platen for example of 0.5 inch 12.5 mm thickness. The lower plywood sheet which is preferably of 1.0 inch 2.5 cm thickness or of greater thickness is maintained in position by fastening to a support structure supported by legs . The support structure may be any convenient structure having the necessary rigidity for example a structure made of aluminum or steel channel etc. Following the back pressure device in a preferred embodiment are a series of freely rotating roll pairs which may be made of any suitable material for example mild steel stainless steel or aluminum and which are suitably positioned above and below the UHMWPE panel for example by a pair of side rails. One side rail is shown the front rail being deleted for purposes of clarity. The ends of the rolls may have pins located in sockets in the support rails may be constrained within ball bearing races etc. The roll pairs may be located such that they lightly bear against the panel may particularly if solid rest on the UHMWPE panel or may be adjusted in position to just contact or to avoid contact by a narrow space for example but not by way of limitation 0.010 inch 0.25 mm or 0.005 inch 1.25 mm . The purpose of the roll pairs is to assist in maintaining panel flatness as the panel cools further not to alter back pressure although if they bear against the panel and are restrained in movement they may assist in this function as well. The rolls are advantageously 1.0 inch to 4.0 inches 2.5 to 10.2 cm in diameter more preferably 1.5 inch to 4 inches 3.8 to 10.2 cm in diameter and are preferably relatively closely spaced in the machine direction e.g. at a spacing of 0.10 to 3.0 inches 2.5 mm to 7.5 cm circumference to circumference preferably 0.2 5 mm to 2.5 inch 6.4 cm apart. As indicated previously the roll pairs are optional and can in fact be used with back pressure devices other than those having a plurality of pressure elements and can be used alone as well.

Arrows and illustrate points at which pressure is applied to the back pressure device preferably by hydraulic or pneumatic cylinders positioned above the back pressure platen . While three points of pressure are shown two pressure points for example and may be used or a higher plurality i.e. four five or six generally less than ten pressure points may be used. Pressure may also be applied from the bottom i.e. to bottom platen or to both platens and .

The UHMWPEs employed in the process are conventional powdery resins as supplied by Ticona Braskem and DSM for example. Preferred number average molecular weight ranges are between 2 10Da and 10 10Da more preferably between 4 10Da and 8 10Da. Although the preferred UHMWPE used in the present invention is homopolymeric or substantially homopolymeric i.e. with only a low content of copolymerizable comonomers the compositions may as also indicated elsewhere herein include conventional processing aids or property modifying additives. Examples of the latter groups of components include but are not limited to components such as thermal stabilizers UV stabilizers nucleating and clarifying agents dyes and pigments electrically conducting materials such as metal powders carbon powders graphite and the like fillers for example non reinforcing fillers having BET surface areas 

UHMWPE when heated above 180 F. 82 C. begins to lose strength and become less rigid. Due to the extreme width to thickness ratio of wide panels of the material when exiting the die above 200 F. 93 C. the material will move at different rates along the width. This causes tearing and humping. Several factors contribute to these observations including die cleanliness at start up and which remains in a state of flux pinch point condition die plate flex die plate condition and hang up. Multiple post extrusion pressure zones allow different sections of the sheet product to be adjusted according to the observed condition. Areas wanting to hump may have additional pressure applied to them while areas that tear will have their pressure reduced.

Bow both horizontal and vertical is caused due to stress and uneven heating and or cooling of the material. Post extrusion pressure zones may be used to counter uneven slip and drag in the tool that cause stress. The multiple zone configuration allows adjustments to be made in localized areas of the sheet depending on the direction and type of bow. Basically the pressure zones are used to even the flow of material across the width as it exits the tool.

The post die pressure fixturing also provides additional control of the internal pressure of the die thereby increasing or decreasing the final opening size of the cavity. It is normally only used to increase pressure if required during a production run. It is effective but is not reliably repeatable. Pressure is generally used only for large adjustments.

In operation the operator observes the flatness or other product characteristic of the panel as it travels between the roll pairs or after exiting the roll pairs for example prior to or after cutting to length. In one embodiment side position sensors may be installed to detect sidewards motion. If the sheet begins to exert pressure on sensor for example this is a sign that the opposing side may be moving through the tool and exiting at a higher output rate or may have inadequate contact with the die and is cooling too slowly and shrinking differentially. Accordingly greater pressure would be exerted on pressure point or lesser pressure on pressure points . Likewise thickness measurements indicating a thinner panel on the left side left when facing the die exit imply slower cooling greater crystallinity and correspondingly greater shrinkage has occurred as compared to other points. This may indicate inadequate contact of the right side of the panel with the die allowing slower crystallization due to loss of contact with the cool die proximate the exit. Increasing back pressure on the right side by applying greater pressure at pressure point is warranted. In summary the vertical pressures on various zones of the back pressure device transverse to the machine direction are adjusted to maximize flatness and dimensional stability. This cannot ordinarily be accomplished by a single back pressure zone a plurality of zones is required although once stable operation is attained it is not unusual that little if any further change be made to the back pressure device even for long runs. However the pressure settings may vary from run to run and will vary most between start up and stable operation. The same device can be used to run materials other than UHMWPE as well as UHMWPE with differing additive packages and may be adjusted accordingly depending on the pressure requirements for each particular material.

In addition to providing differentially adjustable back pressure across the width of an extruded panel the back pressure devices of the subject invention can also be uniformly actuated or subject to the same increase or decrease in pressure across the width when the pressure in the die is in need of adjustment. In a slit die of large width under ram extrusion conditions large internal pressure are generated. The geometry of the die takes into account the deflection which will occur at the expected operating pressure such that a flat panel is the extruded product. If the pressure in the die is reduced for example by a change in internal temperature or batch to batch resin variation the height of the die particularly at its mid section will decrease. The result will be a panel which is thinner in the middle than at the edges. Likewise an increase in pressure will cause the die to distort more than planned and the panel product will now be thicker at the middle than at the edges. Increasing the pressure on the back pressure fixture elements will increase the internal pressure in the die and vice versa and thus monitoring the relative thickness of the central area of the panel with the edge thickness will alert the operator or control device as to when a global increase or decrease in back pressure is mandated to keep product within specification and preferably to optimum thickness variation. Thus by varying the back pressure on the panel exiting the die the die geometry is altered by a corresponding change in internal pressure.

Wood back pressure devices such as those of are generally coated with soft fabric woven or non woven to minimize scratching of the UHMWPE panel surface. The panels may also be faced with soft plastic but this is less desirable as such facings may acquire grit embedded into the surface causing scratching. While fabrics and felts may also suffer from this problem they are easily and inexpensively changed.

A potential disadvantage of the back pressure device of is that the back pressure across the back pressure device is not truly independent since the pressure exerted for example at pressure point will also be exerted in part at points and . The more rigid the sheets and the less independent the pressure adjustment and thus in this embodiment the sheets which make up the back pressure device are preferably relatively thin or are scored to be flexible across their width i.e. flexible transverse to the machine direction by scoring parallel to the machine direction through the use of linking devices or hinges etc.

A preferred embodiment of a back pressure device is illustrated by . In the back pressure device is formed of three upper pressure platens of 0.75 inch 19 mm thick wood or plywood. The back edges in the machine direction are prevented from drifting downstream with the ram extruded UHMWPE panel by end restraint which has a downwardly extending lip . Located above the upper pressure platens proximate their upstream ends is pressure actuator support . Both the end restraint and pressure actuator support are fastened to C channel rails by fasteners . Positioned above each upper pressure platen is a pressure actuator here respective pneumatic cylinders which are fed pressured gas by supply lines . The shaft or plungers of the pneumatic cylinders are attached to the pressure platens by any convenient method. As shown in a side view of the back pressure device and associated equipment shaft is attached to platen by means of bracket and pin . Bracket is attached to platen by screw fasteners . Devices such as bladders independently driven wheels flexible plates deflected by servo stepping devices or thermal expansion devices may be used in place of pressure cylinders to actuate the back pressure device. Substantially any device which allows for variation of pressure applied to the back pressure elements is suitable.

Mounted below the passageway for the UHMWPE panel on lower frame rails is the single in this embodiment lower platen which is firmly attached to frame rails and and supported by crossmembers to provide rigidity. The UHMWPE panel passes between upper pressure platens and lower platen . The upper platens lower platen and pressure actuators with their necessary supports and locating devices etc. form the back pressure device.

Following the back pressure device are vertically restraining roll pairs as shown in B. These roll pairs are journaled into the upper and lower frame rails and and are sized and positioned so as to just contact the UHMWPE panel . While three roll pairs are illustrated it is desirable to have twenty or more roll pairs. The roll pairs serve a dual function of removing heat in a relatively uniform manner while also maintaining flatness of the panel. In this manner the roll pairs while preferably employed together with back pressure devices having independently adjustable pressured zones can also be used together with a back pressure device having but a single pressure zone although this is not preferred. Between channels are spacer strips or blocks to sandwich the wood lower platen between the rails. Alternatively the lower platens may be fastened to crossmembers or otherwise supported e.g. by a welded in frame etc. The apparatus illustrated in B and C can be constructed in numerous ways and out of numerous materials by one skilled in the machine and fixture construction arts.

A similar embodiment to B and C which is less preferred employs multiple lower platens below the extruded panel thus taking the place of single platen . The platens are preferably made of wood material in all the embodiments due to its low cost and excellent thermal properties. Wood products which exhibit minimal distortion are preferable for example layered wood products such as plywood. Solid wood products are desirably stable species such as mahogany. Layered wood products having reinforcing layers or facings such as resin matrix woven or non woven fiberglass or carbon fiber are also useful. If made of thermally conductive materials it is desirable that the platens have either a high thermal mass inertia or contain insulative layers or both to minimize temperature fluctuations and maximize heat retention.

For the extrusion of a single panel the amount of downwards pressure exerted against the panel which retards movement of the panel restraining force or friction and thus gives rise to back pressure depends upon the thickness of the panel being extruded and its width. The pressure preferably should not cause the panel to bow or bend between the exit die and the back pressure device and thus for panels of a fixed width the thinner the panel the less back pressure can be tolerated and the pressure applied to the extruded panel in a vertical direction i.e. the restraining pressure is less than for a thicker panel of the same width. These considerations together with the desirability of maintaining contact of the panel with the walls of the die at least in the cooling zone limit the minimal thickness of the extruded sheet to approximately 3 4 mm in thickness and preferably 5 6 mm assuming a width of 0.4 to 0.5 m.

The minimum width of the panels is about 0.4 m more preferably 0.5 m and yet more preferably at least 0.6 m with widths of 1.0 m to 1.3 m preferred. The maximum width is limited only by the ability to manufacture a suitable die and for practical reasons is generally less than 3 m and more preferably about 1.5 m 5 ft or less.

The aspect ratio of the panels is also important. The minimum aspect ratio width divided by thickness for panels above 0.6 m in width is preferably about 20 more preferably above 40 yet more preferably above 60 and desirably above 80 for example 100 250. As one example a 1.2 m wide panel with a thickness of 1 cm will have an aspect ratio of 120. At lower aspect ratios than 20 it may be difficult to apply sufficient back pressure by the means described heretofore without affecting the surface finish of the panel. For smaller panels i.e. in the range of 0.4 to 0.6 m in width an aspect ratio greater than 10 is preferable more preferably greater than 20 yet more preferably greater than 40 and still more preferably greater than 60. Aspect ratios greater than 100 are particularly preferred.

Thus in one embodiment the invention is directed to a back pressure device having differential pressure zones for use with ram extruded UHMWPE. The invention is also directed to the use of a plurality of vertically confining roll pairs or other vertical restraints downstream from a back pressure device even one without a plurality of differential pressure zones which confine the panel dimensionally until the temperature of the panel is in the range of ambient to 85 C. more preferably ambient to 43 C. and yet more preferably to a temperature within the range of 32 to 37 C.

It should be noted that the back pressure generating elements which are differentially adjustable may individually be set at zero or substantially zero pressure. Thus some back pressure elements may only lightly contact the panel while others may exert considerable pressure. It should also be noted that the difference in pressure is not required to be totally independent as also explained elsewhere. All that is required is that a difference in pressure between at least two and preferably all back pressure generating elements may be established.

The side guide devices are located on both sides of the panel exiting the die preferably in the neighborhood of the back pressure fixture. The side guides may constitute a pin or bar positioned vertically whose sides bear against the panel. However to avoid any impression on the edges of the panel by the side guides the latter are preferably in the form of a horizontal bar or channel preferably one of wood cloth covered wood or lubricious plastic for example a UHMWPE or nylon faced metal channel.

Reference may be had to which illustrate side guides. For simplicity the framework and other details have been omitted.

The back pressure fixture of consist of a lower board or platen and three upper platens . Pressure is applied through means of the platens to UHMWPE panel by pneumatic cylinders and which bear respectively against platens and . There are 12 pneumatic cylinders in all two on the left side of each platen as shown in as and two on the right side. The cylinder rods are attached to the platens by brackets and clevis pins .

The side guide devices consist as illustrated in of a lubricious thermoplastic bearing surface which is bonded or otherwise attached to metal channel . Pneumatic cylinder applies pressure through cylinder rod which is secured to metal channel by bracket and clevis pin . Other fastening means are also suitable and other pressure arrangements. Two such devices are shown in one on each side of the panel .

The side guides are shown in from the side. In this case two side guides are used on each side of the panel in order that greater sideways pressure can be applied.

The present invention is also directed to a process of ram extrusion of UHMWPE panels having a width in excess of 0.4 m more preferably 0.6 m and yet more preferably in the range of 1.0 to about 1.5 m which process comprises the steps of 

The restraining of movement of the panel away from the die is most preferably a frictional restraint. This frictional restraint may be a sliding friction where there is relative movement between the UHMWPE panel and the surface of the back pressure devices for example those illustrated by or may be a restraint which does not allow for sliding friction. Examples of the latter are elastomer coated rollers which rotate in a restrained manner but grip the panel surface in a non sliding manner or a double band press as described below.

An embodiment with a double band press is illustrated in . Traditionally double band presses are employed to consolidate materials such as thermoplastic matrix fiber reinforced semi finished products by applying a consolidating pressure and often heat as well. In the present invention a rather simple form of double band press may be used as a vertical restraining means following a back pressure device or as illustrated by may also serve as the back pressure device itself. In the former case the bands or belts of the press bear against the UHMWPE panel and are not necessarily driven the frictional contact with the sheet providing the driving force for the bands and the rolls supporting them. In the latter case the bands are driven synchronously but delayed with respect to movement of the ram of the ram extruder such that a back pressure is created between the double band press and the die.

In the double band press is constructed with two continuous bands or belts which bear against UHMWPE panel extruded from ram extrusion die also refer to . Located above the lower portion of the top band are platens and located below the upper portion of the lower band are platens . These platens may be adjusted to bear the bands against the panel from an essentially pressureless contact to a relatively high pressure. Due to the incompressibility and relatively high strength of the panel a quite low pressure due to the large surface area of the bands will prevent movement of the panel except when such movement is desired.

The platens may also be heated or cooled. Since the travel of the panel is relatively slow the panel can spend a considerable time within the press. Thus for example the beginning of the press can be heated to the crystalline melt temperature and maintained at this temperature or slightly above or below to anneal the panel or promote additional crystallization of the UHMWPE. Care must be taken to ensure temperature uniformity in such cases.

The press in this embodiment is driven by electrical motors or other means not shown in an incremental fashion synchronously but delayed from the travel of the extrusion ram . Thus as the panel attempts to exit the die it will experience a considerable initial pressure between the press and the die since the press at this point is stationary. If the press remained stationary the panel would greatly distort. However the driving means is tied to the movement of the ram by feedback loop and the driving motors on off cycle and speed during their on condition are regulated by a conventional process controller or PLA . The start of movement of the bands may be delayed by from 0.01 to 0.10 second for example. The normal delay in beginning rotation of the press may provide this delay.

The UHMWPE panels produced by the subject process are in general superior to products of similar dimensions which are produced by compression molding of large thick blocks followed by skiving. Noteworthy among the superior characteristics are a more uniform thickness freedom from edge curl and end curl and a smooth glossy finish. The surface normally is characterized by parallel shot marks which are difficult to observe except at oblique angles. Each product which is commercially acceptable must meet product specifications which may constitute a minimum value of a particular characteristic a maximum value or a range of values. For example a nominally 1.0 m wide sheet may have a width tolerance of 0.5 mm or 0 mm 0.5 mm etc. Likewise thickness variations may be expressed by ranges such as 0.050 inch 0.020 inch 0 0.30 inch. etc. Edge curl may be set to a distance from the edge towards the center of the width of the sheet where edge curl is absent i.e. up to 1 cm up to 2 cm etc. Similarly warp bow and end curl may have values set for them.

The foregoing product specification values are generally set by the manufacturer the distributor or the end user. Regardless of who determines what product characteristics are necessary the manufacturer must adjust the process in order to meet these specifications. All these product characteristics are easily measured by methods well known in the art. Edge straightness for example can be measured by abutting the edge of a sheet against a reference flat surface and noting departures from contact. Thickness may be measured by feel gauges by profilometry optical interferometry etc. Many of these measurements can be made following the cutting of extruded panels to size employing a statistical sampling regime. Other measurements can be made on line on the moving panel especially thickness variations and any tendency for the panels to walk. Some characteristics such as warp bow and walking will be evident to the machine operator who will then make the necessary adjustments in back pressure to restore the characteristic to its desired value. For example a panel which is tending to walk towards the left can following adjustment be made to exit the die and continue downstream in a linear fashion by suitable adjustment of back pressure on a portion of the panel relative to other portions. A panel which has not walked and thus whose sides are at right angles to its length is said to be orthogonal and the measurement of walking may be described in terms of panel orthogonality . The edge of a panel which has walked and is thus not orthogonal will exhibit a curved edge when compared to a straight reference surface. In very unstable processes S shaped curves where walking fluctuates between left and right directions may also occur. The side guides described herein may also assist in preventing walking .

In like manner if the thickness specification is 0.020 inch 0.51 mm the panels have not exceeded 0.010 inch 0.25 mm but suddenly or gradually tend towards greater variations in thickness for example one side or a central portion increasing in thickness such that continued increase over time will exceed the 0.020 inch 0.51 mm thickness specification then the back pressure device is adjusted over a portion of the width of the panel to discontinue this trend or to reverse it.

The ram extrusion of UHMWPE panels of large width and high aspect ratio has been found by the present inventors to be a delicate process so much so that a change from one batch to another of UHMWPE resin powder can cause unexpected process changes as can also such factors as die wear and changes in die surface roughness and even such common events as the cycling of the building HVAC heating ventilation air conditioning system or the opening or closing of a door to the operating environment. While extreme excursions in various operating parameters may be beyond the ability of the differential back pressure device to compensate it has been found that many of the changes which affect product characteristics are due to partial or total loss of contact between portions of the panel and the die and can be compensated for by the differential back pressure device of the present invention.

It is an object of the present invention therefore to employ a back pressure device preferably a back pressure device with a plurality of adjustable back pressure zones and a vertical restraining means alone or in combination to provide a stable process. By a stable process is meant a process where long runs of product runs lasting for example for minimally 8 hours 1 operating shift to several days or to weeks or even months without producing significant amounts of off spec products. In a typical 3 7 day run for example a scrap rate of less than 10 preferably less than 5 would be expected. The stability of the process is achieved either automatically under suitable process control or by an operator. It has been found that operator training is rapidly accomplished.

A panel of UHMWPE of a nominal inch 9.525 mm thickness and a width of about 1.2 m is ram extruded from a die having a heated zone maintained at about 420 F. 215 C. followed in the machine direction by a plurality of cooling zones such that a flat sheet having a thickness tolerance of 0.030 inch can be produced during stable operation. The sheet exits the die at a temperature of about 150 F. 65.6 C. below the crystalline melt temperature.

The start up temperatures are at a target temperature of 345 F. 174 C. . The hopper is filled with UHMWPE resin powder having a number average molecular weight of about 4 10Da and purged with nitrogen. The ram having a thrust of 2 inches 5 cm is cycled at the required interval. As the material exits the die it begins to warp and deform. Concurrently it also bows hard to the left. To counter this distortion a back pressure fixture is applied to the panel to regain and maintain control.

The fixture consists of a bottom cloth covered rigid flat surface back pressure fixture of plywood positioned below the panel. Below the bottom back pressure fixture is a table supported from the floor. The table height is adjusted such that the top surface of the bottom brake fixture is close to the same level as the bottom of the slit die opening. Three fixtures are constructed of rigid plywood covered with cloth and placed on the top of the panel. The fixtures each measure 42 1.07 m in length and 16 42.5 cm wide and cover the first 42 1.07 m of panel across substantially the entire width. The top three fixtures are then pressed down against the panel with four pneumatic cylinders each two cylinders on the left side of each fixture and two on the right with the two on each side tied together and actuated utilizing the same valving and regulator system. This combination gives the ability to adjust each top brake fixture on both its left and right sides thereby creating six zones of pressure control across the width of the part. The air cylinders are three inches in diameter and can be regulated from 0 PSIG to 100 PSIG 0 bar to 6.9 bar gauge . The cylinders are evenly spaced an approximately 26 66 cm apart in the machine direction. On each side of the panel is a side guide device to keep the panel from moving out from underneath the back pressure fixturing. These are actuated and controlled by similar valving regulators and cylinders as the top fixture and are also made of plywood.

The top fixtures are placed on the panel and the regulators set at 10 PSIG 0.69 bar gauge to stop the warping. Once the fixture is pressurized the sheet begins to flatten but still bows to the left. Most of the warped areas are trimmed off and the side of the panel is trimmed back so the edges of the panel are inside the side guide area. The side guides are then actuated at 20 PSIG 1.38 bar gauge effectively encapsulating the panel. As the panel moves forward out of the brake fixture it is guided between rollers guides for further control. The top rollers are initially raised 8 10 20 cm 25 cm above the bottom rollers to allow any sheet with warpage to easily pass through. Once completely through the roller guides the top rollers are lowered down onto the sheet. The roller guides are provided over a length of 20 6 m and are furnished in pairs one roller above and one below the panel. The rollers are 3 7.5 cm in diameter and spaced approximately 5 1.25 cm apart center to center.

Once reasonably stabilized the sheet is observed to have warping raised areas on the right side of the sheet. The back pressure zones are then adjusted by raising the air pressure to the pneumatic cylinders to 40 40 45 50 60 and 75 PSIG from left to right 2.8 2.8 3.1 3.4 4.1 5.2 bar gauge . This decreases but does not completely stop the warping so the back pressure fixture is re adjusted to 40 40 45 50 75 85 PSIG 2.8 2.8 3.1 3.4 5.2 5.9 bar . At these settings the sheet is no longer warped but has a slight bow to the left. The back pressure is again adjusted to 40 40 50 75 80 95 PSIG 1.8 2.8 3.4 5.2 5.5 6.6 bar . The sheet straightness now falls within the required tolerance range and no more adjustments are needed. Between each adjustment 30 9.1 m of material is produced. This is due to the fact that the fixturing devices are 25 7.6 m long and as the sheet produced under the new adjustments should extrude past the end of the fixture to assess its over all quality.

While embodiments of the invention have been illustrated and described it is not intended that these embodiments illustrate and describe all possible forms of the invention. Rather the words used in the specification are words of description rather than limitation and it is understood that various changes may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

