---

title: System and method for generating sprays using electrical fields
abstract: A device for generating sprays of charged droplets, and resulting nanoparticles, the device comprising a first needle connected to an electrical potential line to generate a first spray of charged particles from the first needle, and a second needle spaced apart from and facing the first needle, and connected to an electrical line configured to ground the second needle or to apply a voltage to the second needle that is the same polarity as the voltage applied to the first needle. The device also comprising an electric field modifier connected to the first needle, and configured to modify an electrical field to generate a second spray of charged particles from the second needle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08421006&OS=08421006&RS=08421006
owner: MSP Corporation
number: 08421006
owner_city: Shoreview
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101109
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 260 831 filed on Nov. 12 2009 and entitled GENERATION OF FINE MIST USING ELECTRICAL FIELDS the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Contract No. R44EY016229 awarded by the National Eye Institute National Institutes of Health and Contract No. R44HL081789 awarded by the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure is directed to electrospraying devices and processes. In particular the present disclosure is directed to electrospraying devices and processes for generating coagulation based neutralized droplets and resulting nanoparticles.

Electrospraying involves applying a high electrical potential to a liquid filled needle which results in the formation of a liquid cone at the tip of the needle. A fine liquid jet emerges from the tip of the liquid cone and breaks up into fine droplets. Electrosprayed droplets are typically highly charged and unstable. Some of the applications require neutralization of the electrosprayed droplets. Original attempts to neutralize the droplets were based on ion producing means including radioactive materials corona discharge source and photon ionization source.

For example as shown in a conventional electrospray device includes needle supplied with a liquid that flows in the direction of arrow . An electrical potential is applied to liquid which forms liquid cone at the tip of needle . A liquid jet emerges from the tip of liquid cone and breaks up into fine droplets. The droplets carry a high electric charge of the same polarity as the electric potential i.e. the droplets are positively charged if electric potential is positive and vice versa . Since the droplets have the same polarity of charge they repel each other and spread out to form spray which moves toward an electrically ground surface . As the liquid evaporates these droplets often shed off finer droplets to remain stable. As such electrospray is a useful device for many applications.

However a number of important applications require neutralization of the droplets so they are stabilized. One technique for neutralizing the droplets involves an ionization based neutralization process. However this process has an efficiency of about 10 and results in a host of problems such as radiation safety and ozone generation. An alternative technique to overcome these problems involves a coagulation based neutralization which involved two oppositely charged electrosprays created by opposite electrical potentials.

A first aspect of the present disclosure is directed to a device for generating sprays of charged droplets. The device includes a first needle connected to an electrical potential line where the electrical potential line is configured to apply a first voltage to the first needle to generate a first spray of charged particles from the first needle and where the charged particles of the first spray have a first polarity. The device also includes a second needle spaced apart from and facing the first needle the second needle being connected to an electrical line configured to ground the second needle or to apply a second voltage to the second needle that is the same polarity as the first voltage. The device further includes an electric field modifier connected to the first needle the electric field modifier being configured to modify a generated electrical field produced by the applied voltage to generate a second spray of charged particles from the second needle where the charged particles of the second spray have a second polarity that is opposite of the first polarity.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is directed to a device for generating sprays of charged droplets where the device includes a first needle having a first inlet end configured to receive a first liquid and a first tip opposite of the first inlet end and an electrical potential line configured to apply a voltage to the first needle. The device also includes a metallic plate connected to the first needle at an offset distance from the first tip ranging from about 2 millimeters to about 15 millimeters. The device further includes a second needle having a second inlet end configured to receive a second liquid and a second tip opposite of the second inlet end the second tip of the second needle being spaced apart and facing the first tip of the first needle and an electrical ground line configured to electrically ground the second needle.

Another aspect of the present disclosure is directed to a method for generating nanoparticles. The method includes applying a voltage to a first needle to generate a first spray of charged droplets from the first needle where the charged droplets of the first spray have a first polarity. The method also includes electrically grounding a second needle while applying the voltage to the first needle the second needle being spaced apart from and facing the first needle. The method further includes modifying an electrical field around the grounded second needle to generate a second spray of charged droplets from the grounded second needle where the charged droplets of the second spray have a second polarity that is opposite of the first polarity. The method further includes neutralizing the charged droplets of the first spray and the second spray to form neutralized droplets and evaporating a solvent from the neutralized droplets to provide the nanoparticles.

The present disclosure is directed to an electrospray device configured to generate coagulation based neutralized droplets which eliminates the use of opposite electrical potential in coagulation based neutralization. Instead as discussed below the electrospray device incorporates an electrical potential and an electric field modifier to generate a fine mist spray of neutralized droplets that may be dried into solid nanoparticles. The electric field modifier enables the use of a single electrical potential positive or negative to generate oppositely charged droplets. This reduces the complexity and cost of the neutralization process.

As shown in device of the present disclosure is an electrospray device configured to produce coagulation based neutralized droplets. Device includes needles and electrical potential line electric field modifier and ground line . Needles and are opposing needles having tips and respectively which face each other. Examples of suitable needles for needles and include needles derived from electrically conductive materials e.g. stainless steel . Tips and are offset from each by distance which may range from about 2 millimeters to about 20 millimeters with particularly suitable distances for distance ranging from about 5 millimeters to about 10 millimeters.

Electrical potential line and ground line are conventional electrical connections where electrical potential line is connected to needle and ground line is connected to needle . As discussed below electrical potential line is configured to apply a voltage to needle having a given polarity either positive or negative . Ground line is an electrical line configured to ground needle . In an alternative embodiment ground line may be replaced with a second electrical line that is configured to apply a voltage to needle having the same polarity as the voltage applied to needle by electrical potential line . In this alternative embodiment the voltage applied to needle is desirably small e.g. only a few volts compared to the higher voltage applied to needle . Accordingly in either alternative embodiment needle desirably does not receive a voltage that is opposite in polarity to the voltage applied to needle by electrical potential line .

Electric field modifier is a metallic plate e.g. stainless steel plate connected to needle . In one embodiment electric field modifier is an annular plate or disk having average outer diameter which may range from about 10 millimeters to about 50 millimeters with particularly suitable average diameters for outer diameter ranging from about 20 millimeters to about 40 millimeters. In alternative embodiments electric field modifier may be non annular e.g. oval rectangular and the like . In these embodiments suitable cross sectional areas for electric field modifier include those corresponding to the above discussed average outer diameters with the dimensions of needle removed.

Electric field modifier is offset from tip of needle by offset distance which is desirably selected to obtain a liquid cone at each of tips and . If offset distance is too short electric field modifier may induce a liquid cone at tip of needle but may disrupt the liquid cone at tip of needle . Alternatively if offset distance is too large electric field modifier may not have enough influence on needle to induce a liquid cone. Accordingly suitable average distances for offset distance range from about 2 millimeters to about 15 millimeters with particularly suitable average distances for offset distance range from about 5 millimeters to about 10 millimeters.

During operation a voltage is applied to needle by electrical potential line . The electrical potential draws liquid which is a first electrically conductive liquid through needle in the direction of arrow toward tip . After exiting tip liquid forms liquid cone leading to liquid jet . As discussed above since the droplets of liquid jet have the same polarity of charge the droplets repel each other and spread out to form spray .

As further shown needle is grounded with ground line and does not receive a voltage through ground line that is opposite in polarity to the voltage applied to needle by electrical potential line . As such in a conventional electrospray device an electrically conductive liquid in needle would not generate a spray corresponding to spray from needle . Rather the liquid would merely drip out of tip of needle . Electric field modifier connected to needle however modifies an electrical field between and around needles and . The modified electrical field generates a spray of a second electrically conductive liquid with an electric charge opposite to that of the droplets of spray .

In particular electric field modifier generates an electrical potential in needle that is opposite in polarity from the charge induced to needle from electrical potential line . This electrical potential in needle draws liquid which is a second electrically conductive liquid through needle in the direction of arrow toward tip . After exiting tip liquid forms liquid cone leading to liquid jet . Since the droplets of liquid jet have the same polarity of charge opposite of that of the droplets of spray the droplets repel each other and spread out to form spray .

Sprays and are directed toward each other. As such the droplets from sprays and undergo a coagulation process and generate neutralized droplets. Liquid flow through needles and is typically in microliters per hour to milliliters per hour and may be maintained by syringe pumps or gravitational hydrostatic force. A gas flow e.g. in hundreds of milliliters per minute may be used to carry the neutralized droplets downward in the direction of arrow where the neutralized droplets may dry out quickly to produce solid particles in the average size range of about 10 nanometers to about 100 nanometers with particularly suitable particles having average sizes ranging from about 10 nanometers to about 50 nanometers.

Accordingly device may generate nanometer size aerosols of therapeutic agents which are ideal for animal testing and in some cases for human delivery. However applications of device are not limited to drug delivery. Rather device may be used for generation of nanoparticles nanodroplets and nanofibers for a variety of applications.

Classical electrospray operations without neutralization as discussed above for device in have valuable applications. For example such operations may be used to ionize macromolecules such as proteins for mass spectroscopy. In this function a solution of macromolecules is electrosprayed and charged macromolecules are ejected from the droplets and carried over to mass spectroscopy instrument. In another application a polymer solution is used and spray conditions are such that the solvent evaporates early and a charged solid filament is formed instead of the droplets. The filament or nanofiber undergoes a whipping motion and deposits on the ground surface. This process is suitable for making webs of nanofibers that are used in filtration and in several emerging medical technologies.

However neutralization of electrosprayed droplets is suitable for a variety of applications where charge induced instability is undesirable. Neutralization enables generation of fine liquid mist consisting of submicron droplets which may be difficult to generate with other nebulization techniques. Furthermore fine mists can be used in medical treatments such as inhalation therapy. For example if the liquids used in the electrospray are volatile and one of them includes a non volatile component then the end product after evaporation of the volatile liquids is a suspension of solid nanoparticles. These solid nanoparticles can also be used as therapeutic agents. Nanoparticle suspensions are desirable for testing the efficacy and toxicity of inhaled substances in rodent models of pulmonary diseases and complications. On a larger scale of manufacturing the nanoparticle generation may be used to make structured materials. Nanofibers with novel structural features can be manufactured using electrosprayed polymers with different levels of neutralization.

Device also includes reservoirs and which are liquid reservoirs configured to supply the conductive liquids e.g. liquids and to the inlet ends of needles and respectively. A variety of different liquids and may be supplied in reservoirs and . In one embodiment liquids and may each be pure electrically conductive liquids such as organic solvents e.g. ethanol acetone and the like whose conductivity may be controlled by addition of trace amount of an acid such as hydrochloric acid aqueous liquids e.g. water and combinations thereof. In applications for generating solid nanoaerosols at least one of liquids and contains an electrically conductive solution having a non volatile solute.

The desired liquid flow from reservoirs and to needles and may be accomplished by maintaining the liquid surfaces in reservoirs and at appropriate levels. As such liquids and may flow to needles and by gravitational hydrostatic force. Alternatively active feeding mechanisms not shown may be used such as syringe pumps. Liquid reservoirs and are also desirably covered during operation to prevent the loss of liquids and by evaporation.

During operation a gas is introduced through inlet line in the direction of arrow which flows across tips and and facilitates the carrying of the aerosols away from the region between needles and . A high voltage may then be applied to needle by electrical potential line . This draws liquid from the inlet end of needle toward tip and ejects liquid as a spray having droplets with a first polarity. As discussed above needle is grounded and does not directly receive voltage from an electrical potential source. Instead electric field modifier generates an electrical potential in needle which draws liquid from the inlet end of needle toward tip and ejects liquid as a spray having droplets with a second polarity that is opposite of the first polarity.

The resulting sprays are directed toward each other and the droplets from the sprays undergo a coagulation process and generate neutralized droplets. The gas flow in the direction of arrow carry the resulting aerosols away from the region between needles and to outlet line as represented by arrow . As discussed above the neutralized droplets may dry out quickly to produce solid nanoparticles. The evaporated solvents typically constitute no more than a small fraction of the overall gas flow e.g. 10 parts per million and typically do not affect the quality of the output of device . However if solvent vapors are undesirable device may also include a scrubber not shown such as a column of activated carbon to remove the solvent vapors from the gas flow.

In some embodiments liquids and may consist essentially of water or may incorporate water as a carrier medium for a solution. However water has a significantly higher surface tension compared to many organic solvents and the electric potential required to create an aqueous cone is often higher than the dielectric strength of air so arcing between the needles may occur without the formation of liquid cones. This may be resolved by introducing another gas to air having a higher dielectric constant such as carbon dioxide and hydrofluoroalkanes. For inhalation experiments however it is less desirable to add a significant amount of other gases to air. The amount of additional gases may be minimized by directing the additional gases only to the needle tips instead of including the additional gases in bulk gas flow.

Once the sprays are started they may continue for a duration of about 30 minutes to about 60 minutes without substantial changes in the output. The liquid consumed may be replenished by adding a drop of liquid to each reservoir and every 20 to 60 minutes.

A steady flow of air may be maintained through device and exposure column using pump . Filter may be used to remove any pre existing particles from the air and filter may be used to remove the generated nanoparticles flowing through exhaust line before releasing the air to the ambient as represented by arrow . The rodents or other suitable animals are able to breathe a suspension of the nanoparticle generated by device with a high number density such as in excess of 10particles per second. These nanoparticles may penetrate deep in the rodents lungs to provide suitable results concerning efficacy and toxicity of test substances.

As discussed above the electrospray devices of the present disclosure e.g. devices and do not apply opposite voltages on the pair of opposing needles as would be intuitively perceived. Instead each device incorporates an electrical field modifier to enable formation of liquid cones at the tips of both of the opposing needles. This reduces the complexity and cost of the neutralization process.

The present disclosure is more particularly described in the following examples that are intended as illustrations only since numerous modifications and variations within the scope of the present disclosure will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Unless otherwise noted all parts percentages and ratios reported in the following examples are on a weight basis and all reagents used in the examples were obtained or are available from the chemical suppliers described below or may be synthesized by conventional techniques.

Test runs were performed with an electrospray device of the present disclosure corresponding to device shown in which incorporated an electrical field modifier. Air flow rates up to three liters minute were tested and operation of the device was not affected by the air flow rate. During operation a voltage was applied to one of the pair of opposing needles and the other needle was grounded. The voltage generated a first spray of charged droplets from the needle in contact with the electrical potential line and connected to the electric field modifier. Additionally the electric field modifier successfully generated a second spray of charged droplets from the grounded needle where the charged droplets had an opposite polarity of the first spray droplets. The droplets neutralized and coagulated to form nanoparticles that were suspended in the air flow to form an aerosol.

Although the present disclosure has been described with reference to preferred embodiments workers skilled in the art will recognize that changes may be made in form and detail without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

