---

title: Alignment method for solar collector arrays
abstract: The present invention is directed to an improved method for establishing camera fixture location for aligning mirrors on a solar collector array (SCA) comprising multiple mirror modules. The method aligns the mirrors on a module by comparing the location of the receiver image in photographs with the predicted theoretical receiver image location. To accurately align an entire SCA, a common reference is used for all of the individual module images within the SCA. The improved method can use relative pixel location information in digital photographs along with alignment fixture inclinometer data to calculate relative locations of the fixture between modules. The absolute locations are determined by minimizing alignment asymmetry for the SCA. The method inherently aligns all of the mirrors in an SCA to the receiver, even with receiver position and module-to-module alignment errors.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08294886&OS=08294886&RS=08294886
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08294886
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100119
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 241 047 filed Sep. 10 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference. This application is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 761 396 filed Jun. 12 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 667 833 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 817 160 filed Jun. 28 2006 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to solar collectors and in particular to an improved alignment method for solar collector arrays comprising a plurality of parabolic trough solar concentrators.

Parabolic trough solar concentrators have been developed fielded and are currently producing electricity in the United States and are in development in other nations. See H. Price et al. Advances in Parabolic Trough Solar Power Technology 105 288 2002 and V. E. Dudley et al. Test Results SEGS LS 2 Solar Collector 94 1884 Sandia National Laboratories Albuquerque N. Mex. 1994 . Trough concentrators use mirrored surfaces curved in a parabolic shape. The mirrors focus sunlight on a receiver tube or heat collection element HCE running the length of the trough. In a trough power plant oil runs through the HCE in the focal region where it is heated to high temperatures and then goes through a heat exchanger to generate steam. The steam is then used to run a conventional power plant.

Most trough concentrators use multiple mirror facets or panels that have to be aligned to the receiver or HCE. Accurate mirror alignment of faceted solar concentrators maximizes the reflected sunlight intercepting the HCE and can enable the use of a smaller HCE or the use of a larger aperture concentrator with the same size HCE thereby improving overall collector efficiency. In addition practical alignment can potentially reduce solar collector installation fixture accuracy requirements and cost. However a problem with trough concentrators has been the lack of accurate mirror alignment preventing maximum energy efficiency.

Compared with parabolic dish concentrators practical optical alignment techniques for the accurate alignment of parabolic trough concentrators have not been developed. The relatively short focal lengths and low operating temperature in parabolic trough systems have allowed them to be developed and commercialized with relatively inaccurate alignment by the use of fixtures. Their linear nature has also been a barrier to the development of practical optical techniques. Parabolic dishes on the other hand require precise alignment especially to minimize flux hot spots on the solar receiver. In addition the fact that the mirror normals of parabolic dishes conveniently point to the same general location approximately one focal length behind the dish focus facilitates alignment.

Accurate alignment of concentrating collectors by the use of fixtures is extremely difficult. These fixtures position the mirrors typically at four mirror mounts. Because the mounts effectively define alignment based on one location mirror alignment accuracy can be no better than the mirror slope error. Manufacturing tolerances error stack up and indeterminate effects such as thermal expansion make the use of fixtures challenging for precise large optical systems. For parabolic dishes only optical techniques which inherently account for error stack up and other factors have provided the required alignment accuracy. However where optical techniques have been used to measure the alignment of fixture aligned parabolic troughs significant misalignment has been reported. Mechanical fixtures also do not lend themselves to checking alignment after installation.

Various optical techniques have been developed to align parabolic dishes. Distant observer and distant light source techniques have been developed to align parabolic dishes lasers have been used to align solar furnace mirrors and parabolic dishes and a video based technique for mirror characterization and facet alignment has been developed and implemented. See F. R. Livingston Activity and Accomplishments in Dish Stirling Electric Power System Development 1060 82 Pasadena Calif. 1985 M. K. Selcuk Parabolic Dish Test Site History and Operating Experience 1060 84 Pasadena Calif. 1995 R. B. Diver et al. A New High Temperature Solar Research Furnace Vol. 105 pp. 288 293 1983 R. B. Diver Method and apparatus for aligning a solar concentrator using two lasers U.S. Pat. No. 6 597 709 and J. B. Blackmon and K. W. Stone Application of the Digital Image Radiometer to Optical Measurement and Alignment of Space and Terrestrial Solar Power Systems Paper No. 93217 28 Atlanta Ga. 1993 . Variations on the distant light source technique have been further developed to enable near alignment and daylight alignment by the use of color targets and video cameras. See R. B. Diver R. B. Mirror Alignment Techniques for Point Focus Solar Concentrators 92 0668 Sandia National Laboratories Albuquerque N. Mex. 1992 R. B. Diver Mirror Alignment and Focus of Point Focus Solar Concentrators Solar Engineering 1995 Maui Hi. 1995 C. E. Andraka et al. Improved Alignment Technique for Dish Concentrators Kohala Coast Hawaii Island Hi. 2003 and B. J. Steffen et al. Development and Characterization of a Color 2F Alignment Method for the Advanced Dish Development System Kohala Coast Hawaii Island Hi. 2003 . With these techniques differences between theoretically calculated and optically measured image positions are used to guide alignment.

Despite the relatively advanced state of commercialization of parabolic troughs optical alignment is undeveloped. One of the early concepts proposed utilizing reflected images in the mirrors but it was never developed. See R. L. Wood Distant Observer Techniques for Verification of Solar Concentrator Optical Geometry 53220 Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory Livermore Calif. 1981 . The use of lasers to statistically determine optical accuracy and mirror alignment has received the most attention and an approach based on stereoscopic photography has shown promise. See T. Wendelin 2004 B. L. Butler and R. B. Pettit Optical Evaluation Techniques for Reflecting Solar Concentrators 144 Society of Photo Optical Instrumentation Engineers Bellingham Wash. 1977 E. Lupfort et al. 2005 and M. R. Shortis and G. Johnston Photogrammetry An Available Surface Characterization Tool for Solar Concentrators Part II Assessment of Surfaces Vol. 119 pp. 281 291 1997 . The distant observer technique has been used to align LS 2 trough mirrors as part of its HCE performance characterization. See T. A. Moss and D. A. Brosseau Test Result of a Schott HCE Using a LS 2 Collector 2005 2005 Orlando Fla. 2005 . Unfortunately trough spacing requirements do not permit the use of the distant observer technique within a trough field. The laser and stereoscopic techniques are also complex require sophisticated equipment and setup and are impractical for the staggering number of mirrors in a trough solar power plant.

A desirable mirror alignment method for any concentrating solar collector would 1 be simple to set up and implement 2 use a minimum of sophisticated hardware 3 not require removal of the HCE receiver 4 not require sun or other restrictive weather conditions 5 not require line of sight to a distant observer or light source and 6 permit accessibility to the mirrors for adjustments. See R. B. Diver 1995 . The Theoretical Overlay Photographic Collector Alignment Technique TOPCAT method of the present invention provides these desirable features for aligning parabolic trough solar concentrators.

The present invention is directed to an improved method for establishing camera fixture location for aligning mirrors on a solar collector array SCA comprising multiple mirror modules. The TOPCAT method of the present invention aligns mirrors on a parabolic solar collector trough module by comparing the location of the receiver image in photographs with the predicted theoretical receiver image location. To accurately align an entire SCA with the TOPCAT method a common reference is used for all of the individual module images within the SCA. The improved method can use relative pixel location information in digital photographs along with alignment fixture inclinometer data to calculate relative locations of the fixture between modules. The absolute locations are determined by minimizing alignment asymmetry for the SCA. With this approach the TOPCAT method inherently aligns all of the mirrors in an SCA to the receiver even with receiver position and module to module alignment errors.

In is shown a side view schematic illustration of a parabolic collector that illustrates the basic principles of the TOPCAT method of the present invention. The collector comprises a line focusing parabolic trough concentrator and a linear receiver or HCE . The parabolic axis lies in the z direction through the vertex of the trough concentrator . Elevation is in the vertical y direction. The trough of the concentrator and the length of the HCE run in the horizontal x direction out of the plane of the figure. The trough concentrator comprises at least two rows of mirror facets or panels mirrors . Each mirror row comprises one or more mirrors that are arranged serially in the x direction. For example four rows of mirrors are shown in . Adjacent mirrors in adjacent mirror rows can be arranged in columns. The rows and columns of mirrors form a concentrator module . A SCA can comprise a plurality of such modules. Light from a source e.g. the sun is reflected by the rows of mirrors and received by the HCE . From basic geometric principles the shape and location of the reflected HCE image in each mirror can be predicted. Alignment is accomplished by adjusting the aim of each of the mirrors in the rows so that the reflected HCE image falls on the location of the theoretical HCE image in the overlay of the image for that mirror.

An exemplary alignment fixture comprises at least one off axis camera position and for each row and of the module e.g. camera position corresponds to mirror row . With the improved methodology an on axis middle camera position is not needed. The cameras can be positioned at any location where they can see a reflected image of the HCE in the corresponding mirror. Preferably a camera is positioned such that the receiver image is in the center of the corresponding mirror to minimize effects due to improper mirror focal length on alignment. For example the alignment fixture can conveniently be a vertical pole with the cameras accurately positioned along it at the positions alternatively a single camera can be moved between camera positions . The alignment fixture can be placed at a convenient distance from the concentrator . For example this distance can be close enough to be within the trough rows in a solar power plant but far enough away so that a camera can see an entire module of mirrors. For alignment the alignment fixture is positioned perpendicular to the trough of the concentrator . As will be described below for convenience the concentrator can be pointed horizontally towards the alignment fixture . The concentrator can be pointed horizontally for example 1 in elevation using open loop tracking encoder feedback. The alignment fixture can be positioned vertically for example 2 with inclinometers.

The alignment fixture can be positioned vertically to align the center of the fixture with the optical axis of the collector . This centering can be done by direct measurement of the alignment fixture using convention methods such as mechanical measurements. Alternatively a middle camera can be used to boresight or vertically center the fixture using a boresight gauge mounted at the vertex of the concentrator module as described in U.S. application Ser. No. 11 761 396. Alternatively rather than use a boresight gauge the fixture can be aligned with the trough and receiver by simply raising or lowering the fixture i.e. in the y direction until the receiver image appears in the center of the corresponding mirror row. One or more of the cameras can be used to facilitate the alignment. It is not necessary to precisely center the receiver images in the mirrors.

Once the alignment fixture location is determined images from the cameras can then be used to align the mirrors in each of the rows of a column or set of columns. Each camera records the location of the HCE image in each mirror in a photographic image. Preferably the photographic image is a digital image. The HCE image location in the photograph is then compared to a theoretical projected HCE image location by overlaying the two images. The theoretical overlays utilize the determined camera y locations. Vector algebra and projection theory can be used to predict the theoretical projected image for perfectly aligned mirrors as described below. Each mirror is then adjusted to bring the measured photographic image to coincide with the theoretical projected image in the overlay. From geometry and the optical analysis it is possible to predict the exact amounts of adjustment required. If optical errors other than focal length errors exist photographs at multiple camera positions can be used to correct for these errors.

To align an entire SCA the SCA remains in the same horizontal position while all of the images on a SCA are taken. Once the images of an entire SCA are taken calculated images showing the theoretical location of the HCE in the mirrors are overlaid onto the photographs. A common reference for all of the individual module images within an SCA can be established by utilizing relative pixel location information in the digital photographs along with fixture inclinometer data to calculate relative locations of the alignment fixture between modules as described below. The absolute locations can be determined by minimizing alignment asymmetry for the SCA. With this approach the TOPCAT method inherently aligns all of the mirrors in an SCA to the receiver even with receiver position and module to module alignment errors.

Ray tracing from a camera position to a mirror and then to the edges of the HCE can be used to calculate the theoretical location of the HCE image in the mirror and then draw a graphical projection of the image and mirrors as seen by the camera. The equations presented below are based on vector methods used in analytic geometry and are variations on equations used for the alignment of parabolic dishes. See R. B. Diver 1992 and R. B. Diver 1995 .

Consider the coordinate system illustrated in . Alignment errors along the x axis are not considered since the reflected rays still intercept the HCE receiver . Because the trough has no curvature along the x axis the theoretical image of the HCE is straight along the x axis and the y and z image locations along the mirror rows are constant. Therefore to determine the theoretical image location as viewed from an off axis camera A it is convenient to consider only the z and y vector components. In the parabola vertex is the origin and the x axis is perpendicular to the plane of the figure. The focal line of the parabola is represented by a point F. For a parabolic concentrator the vertex can be defined as the middle of the trough i.e. the intersection of a vertical line through the middle of the center column of mirrors and the horizontal line along the parabola vertex x axis . The z axis is the optical axis of the trough concentrator . A mirror location in space B is given by its coordinates B B B and the linear receiver is parallel to the x axis and perpendicular to the z axis.

Utilizing the characteristics of the parabola shows that for a solar ray to be reflected from the sun S to the focus F the mirror normal for a perfect parabola vector BG must bisect the angle SBF in the z y plane and the distance between points F and G is equal to the distance between points B and F. This relationship is true for all mirror positions B. Point G is at the intersection of the mirror normal and the z axis and is different for each mirror y position.

Useful equations for a parabola applied to the coordinate system in are 4and 1 2 1 cos 2 where f is the parabola focal length R is the distance from the parabola to the focus in the z y plane and is the mirror position angle. See J. A. Duffie and W. A. Beckman John Wiley Sons New York N.Y. Chap. 8 1974 .

To determine the location of the image of the HCE lower receiver edge in the mirror B as seen by the camera A the reflected vector BD from the mirror tangent to the bottom edge of the HCE receiver can be iteratively calculated using the vector BA from the camera A to the mirror B and the mirror normal vector BG by the use of the following vector mathematics equation 

The location of where vector BD intersects the target plane E the plane through the center of the receiver perpendicular to the z axis corresponding to the bottom edge of the receiver is point Eand can be calculated by scaling the y component of vector BD in accordance with the z component which is known. The scale factor between vector BE and vector BD M is therefore

With this set of equations the location on a mirror point B corresponding to where the reflected ray BD intersects the edge of the receiver can not be explicitly solved. It requires an iterative solution to find the mirror position B such that vector BD is tangent to the receiver. Furthermore because a HCE receiver has a circular cross section for this example the effective y location corresponding to where vector BD is tangent to the receiver depends on the angle in the z y plane of vector BD. For the lower receiver edge image the effective target plane y location Eis cos 10 where r is the HCE tube radius. R is the distance from the mirror B to the focus F in the zy plane from Eq. 2 . For the upper receiver image the effective target plane y location Eis cos 11 

The above equations when iteratively solved determine the y location on the mirror Bcorresponding to the bottom and top edge of the receiver as seen from the camera A. Because the parabolic trough has no curvature along the x axis the theoretical image of the receiver is straight along the x axis. Assuming the receiver length is the same as the concentrator length the theoretical x locations in the mirrors corresponding to receiver ends can also be iteratively calculated. Solving the above equations for both sides and ends of the receiver gives the theoretical edge locations on the mirrors of the reflected image as seen by the camera A of perfectly aligned parabolic mirrors.

The theoretical overlay is the calculated two dimensional projection of the mirrors and theoretical receiver image determined above as seen by a camera at point A. Projection theory is used to calculate what a camera would see for a perfectly aligned mirror. In a camera the projected image is inverted through lenses onto a detector. For this analysis the mirror corner coordinates and receiver image corner coordinates are projected onto a view plane V between the camera A and mirror B. Because the theoretical image and photograph when overlaid are scaled to match dimensionally the view plane position and therefore the size of the theoretical overlay is not important. In the camera is shown pointed parallel to the z axis and perpendicular to the view plane V. In this case the x and y coordinates for the image and mirror corners in the view plane V can be calculated by simply scaling the x and y image and mirror coordinates to the relative z component distances between the camera to view plane vector and camera to mirror or image point vectors. If the camera is pointed elsewhere such as the parabola vertex it is convenient to use Cartesian cylindrical coordinate transformations to align the camera and view plane axis with the transformed z axis to scale the view plane coordinates.

The TOPCAT method described above aligns the mirrors on a parabolic solar collector trough module to the receiver by comparing the location of the receiver in photographs with their predicted theoretical location. However in commercial parabolic trough solar power plants a plurality of trough concentrator modules typically 6 to 12 modules are driven by the common drive of a solar collector array SCA . While bore sighting the camera fixture with the receiver and trough mirrors provides a convenient way to establish camera fixture location y position of point A in relative to a trough module there is no assurance that the receivers are precisely centered on the modules. In addition because the camera alignment fixture is located several focal lengths away from the trough to fit the module within the field of view of the cameras small variations in receiver position can result in large uncertainties in camera location. There is also no assurance that all of the modules are aligned with each other i.e. pointed parallel. As a result the use of bore sighting references can result in camera positions with inconsistent y locations along the SCA. These inconsistent fixture locations can adversely affect the alignment of mirror modules within an SCA.

Therefore to accurately align an entire SCA with the TOPCAT method it is desirable to use a common reference for all of the individual module images within the SCA. As an alternative to bore sighting the improved method of the present invention uses information in the images along with fixture inclinometer data to establish a common coordinate system for an entire SCA and inherently align all of the mirrors in the SCA to the receiver even with receiver position and module to module alignment errors. The following describes the steps of a method that can be used to establish a common camera y coordinate system for the entire SCA. This approach can be done in conjunction with and iteratively with the theoretical overlay calculations described previously.

After the alignment fixture is positioned perpendicularly to the SCA trough i.e. the trough is pointed horizontally and the alignment fixture is positioned vertically in this example theoretical overlays of all of the mirror modules in the SCA are performed. For a first reference module assume that the fixture is centered at y 0 the design location. Therefore for example an LS 2 concentrator the row 1 camera is at 1.97 m the row 2 camera is at 0.729 m the row 3 camera is at 0.729 m and the row 4 camera is at 1.97 m. These are the y locations of the cameras and corresponding to the centers of the four mirrors and respectively. Any of the modules can be used for the reference module . For the remaining modules the camera alignment fixture locations can be calculated by referencing it relative to the first module. Relative location can be determined by using the average y pixel locations in the images of the top and bottom edges of the four mirror rows from the overlays and the inclinometer data from an inclinometer that measures fixture tilt in the direction towards the trough.

The average y pixel locations of the modules i of each row n in an SCA Py are 2 11 2 12 2 13 2 14 where Pyi and Pyicorrespond to the average y pixel locations of the top and bottom mirror edges respectively for an SCA having four individual mirror rows n.

The alignment fixture locations for the other modules are calculated from the reference module using the average y pixel locations and the fixture inclinometer data relative to the reference module. 2 2 2 15 where Sis the vertical pixel scaling factor for rows 1 and 4 and Sis the vertical pixel scaling factor for rows 2 and 3. The pixel scaling factors scale the pixel heights in mm at the camera to trough distance. For example with 4 megapixel Gigabit Ethernet GigE cameras Sis 3.72 mm pixel and Sis 4.01 mm pixel for the LS 2 with the alignment fixture at 7.62 m 25 feet from the trough vertex. Cis the inclinometer reading in radians at module and Cis the inclinometer reading in radians at module i. Dis the average distance from the fixture to rows 1 and 4 6.969 m for the LS 2 at 7.62 m or 25 feet . Dis the average distance from the fixture to rows 2 and 3 7.531 m for the LS 2 at 7.62 m or 25 feet .

Next utilizing the camera locations calculated above the TOPCAT analysis is performed and adjustments determined for the mirror mounts for the entire SCA. Adjustments are the amount of movement mm needed at each mount to bring the mirrors into alignment. Only one side of a mirror top or bottom will require adjustment.

Next the outer and inner row asymmetries for the SCA are calculated. Asymmetry is the relative number of mirror mount adjustment up or down. For a trough with 4 rows of mirrors with rows 1 4 corresponding to respectively in the outer row asymmetry row 1 outer mount mm adjustment row 1 inner mount mm adjustment row 4 outer mount mm adjustment row 4 inner mount mm adjustment . Likewise the inner row asymmetry row 2 outer mount mm adjustment row 2 inner mount mm adjustment row 3 outer mount mm adjustment row 3 inner mount mm adjustment .

From the inner and outer asymmetries the heights y positions of all of the camera fixture locations are iteratively increased or decreased by the same amount until overall mount asymmetry is within a small acceptable level. Other approaches for establishing the absolute fixture locations are possible. The amount of fixture adjustment needed can be determined from the outer and inner row asymmetries and the trough camera geometry and optical design. For example for the LS 2 at 7.62 m 25 feet the outer row adjustment outer mount mm adjustment asymmetry 120 mount pairs per SCA 1.323 mrad mm adjustment 13.99 mm mrad. For the LS 2 at 7.62 m 25 feet the inner row adjustment inner mount mm adjustment asymmetry 120 mount pairs per SCA 1.260 mrad mm adjustment 14.99 mm mrad. The fixture adjustment outer row adjustment inner row adjustment 2.

Next the alignment fixture adjustment is added to the assumed alignment fixture location for reference module and the calculated relative alignment fixture locations for the other modules. Using the new fixture locations the theoretical overlays the mirror mount adjustments and inner and outer washer asymmetry for the SCA are recalculated. The absolute fixture location can be adjusted until asymmetry is within a small acceptable level e.g. 5 mm for the SCA .

Because with this improved method the theoretical overlays are based on a common reference for the SCA receiver position errors have no influence on camera location. As a result receiver displacement errors have the same impact on receiver image location as mirror tilt errors. The mirrors are therefore inherently aligned to the receiver even when it is not at the correct location. Similarly module to module alignment errors have the same effect on receiver edge location as alignment errors. Small module to module errors should have little or no impact on referencing the camera alignment fixture to the mirrors in an SCA. Because the mirror adjustments are balanced up and down i.e. asymmetry is minimized tracking bias should not be significantly affected. The net result is that all major sources of error are inherently accounted for with this method and the mirrors are inherently aligned to the receiver.

Bore sighting can be accomplished at the beginning of each SCA by raising or lowering the camera fixture to center the receiver images in the mirror rows as seen in the cameras. The fixture can be repositioned at each module if receiver images are significantly out of the mirror centers because the ground is not level or module misalignment exists.

Because camera alignment fixture referencing is relative to the mirrors and 8 different mirror edges are averaged in each 4 row module relative position can be very accurate typically on the order of 1 pixel or less. The inclinometer repeatability needs to be about 0.05 degree or better to keep inclinometer induced errors to an acceptably small level. Inclinometer accuracy is not important but noise from fixture vibration wind or vehicle movement impacts should be minimized.

Conversely rather than use the above method for mirror alignment the comparison of the theoretical and photograph images locations at multiple known y locations can also be used to characterize the optics of the trough including alignment errors slope errors and other optical errors. The difference between the theoretical receiver image edge location and the photograph receiver image edge location indicates a quantifiable optical error corresponding to the receiver image location. By taking images at multiple known offsets across the full extent of the mirrors the optical errors in the y direction can be quantified across the mirrors. Multiple cameras per row of mirrors or simply raising and lowering the fixture by measurable amounts and acquiring images can be used to acquire multiple y location images per mirror.

The present invention has been described as an improved alignment method for solar collector arrays. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

