---

title: Enhancement of live and simulated participant interaction in simulators
abstract: A simulated participant system is configured to interoperate with existing simulators to create an integrated simulation platform with enhanced capabilities to provide, on a readily-scalable basis, simulated participants of one or more different types that are based on dynamically constructed virtual models of live simulation participants. The system observes live participants as they train with a simulator using a closed-loop, self-training configuration by continuously monitoring conversations and actions to create and maintain the virtual models on-the-fly. The virtual models may then be utilized to generate simulated participants to stand in for the live participants when they are absent from future simulator training sessions. Because a simulated participant was virtually modeled from observations of a live participant, the simulated behaviors, as expressed by actions and responses, can typically closely match the expected behavior of the absent live participant.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08641420&OS=08641420&RS=08641420
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08641420
owner_city: Orlando
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101012
---
Increased capabilities in computer processing such as improved real time image and audio processing have aided the development of powerful training simulators such as vehicle weapon and flight simulators action games and engineering workstations among other simulator types. Simulators are frequently used as training devices which permit a participant to interact with a realistic simulated environment without the necessity of actually going out into the field to train in a real environment. For example different simulators may enable a live participant such as a police officer pilot or tank gunner to acquire maintain and improve skills while minimizing costs and in some cases the risks and dangers that are often associated with live training.

While current simulators perform satisfactorily in many applications customers for simulators such as branches of the military law enforcement agencies industrial and commercial entities etc. have expressed a desire for flexible scalable and cost effective simulators that allow for the easy expansion of the number and types of simulated participants with whom live participants may interact. Customers have also demonstrated a desire to obtain enhanced simulation functionality but without the need to purchase new simulators or simulator hardware or having to extensively reconfigure an existing simulator. In addition simulator customers typically seek to improve the quality of the simulated training environments supported by simulators by increasing realism in simulations and finding ways to make the simulated experiences more immersive.

This Background is provided to introduce a brief context for the Summary and Detailed Description that follow. This Background is not intended to be an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter nor be viewed as limiting the claimed subject matter to implementations that solve any or all of the disadvantages or problems presented above.

A simulated participant system is configured to interoperate with existing simulators to create an integrated simulation platform with enhanced capabilities to provide on a readily scalable basis simulated participants of one or more different types that are based on dynamically constructed virtual models of live simulation participants. The system observes live participants as they train with a simulator using a closed loop self training configuration by continuously monitoring conversations and actions to create and maintain the virtual models on the fly. The virtual models may then be utilized to generate simulated participants to stand in for the live participants when they are absent from future simulator training sessions. Because a simulated participant was virtually modeled from observations of a live participant the simulated behaviors as expressed by actions and responses can typically closely match the expected behavior of the absent live participant. The simulated participants thus interact with live participants and respond to other stimuli in the environment as would their live counterparts which adds realism to the simulation and which can increase training effectiveness by broadening the scope of a live participant s interaction with the simulator when it is interoperated with the present system.

Through interoperation with multiple single purpose simulators for example an airborne simulator vehicle simulator ground combat simulator on a cross platform basis the simulated participant system can observe different types of live participants to subsequently generate different types of simulated participants such as pilot vehicle driver and combat soldier types. Same type and or different types of simulated participants can then be inserted into a simulation supported by an otherwise single purpose simulator to transparently increase its capabilities. Thus for example a live participant in a ground combat simulation can interact with a simulated participant that realistically stands in for a squad member who is absent from the training simulation. And the live participant may converse over the radio with a simulated pilot who is modeled after a live pilot based on observations made by the system when interoperating with the airborne simulator to call in air support. Likewise the live participant may interact with a simulated driver who is modeled after a live driver based on observations made by the system when interoperating with the vehicle simulator to set up a supply line to the squad.

The present system can further provide simulated participants on a scalable basis to the simulator. That is the present system can provide simulated participants of varying types and in varying numbers as may be required to meet the needs of a given simulation scenario. So for example the simulated participant system could provide stand ins for the entire squad of combat soldier if they are all absent from a training simulation. Similarly a live participant might interact with pilots of an entire squadron of aircraft and or drivers from an entire convoy of vehicles. The present system solution readily scales up or down while maintaining a high degree of realism because the simulated participants supplied to the simulator are directly modeled on their live counterparts.

In various illustrative examples the simulated participant system is implemented substantially in software using a modular approach and is configured to interoperate with existing simulators using standard or proprietary communication protocols on a plug and play basis. Exemplary functional modules include a natural language processing module a profiler module an expert system module a natural language generation module an actions conversation monitor module and a system database. The natural language processing module is arranged for parsing monitored conversations to identify natural language expression which are correlated by the expert system with commands questions responses and other utterances made by the live participants over the course of a simulation to generate the virtual models.

Advantageously the simulated participant system enables simulator customers to significantly increase the core capabilities and functionalities of its existing and legacy simulators in a transparent manner and without the need for time consuming and potentially expensive simulator hardware configuration modifications. The simulated participants can be scaled up or scaled down as needed to meet the particular requirements of a simulated training scenario while increasing simulation realism for the live simulator participants. The cross platform modeling capabilities of the present system further enhance training effectiveness by increasing a live participant s scope of interaction with the simulation.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Like reference numerals indicate like elements in the drawings. Unless otherwise indicated elements are not drawn to scale.

The simulators will typically operate on general purpose or application specific computing devices or a mix of devices. In some cases a simulator will utilize one or more local computers as shown with simulators and N in respectively indicated by reference numerals and . In other cases simulators may operate across multiple distributed computers over a network as shown with simulator . Although a given simulator may operate over networked distributed computing infrastructure interoperation and data exchange between disparate simulators is rarely implemented as indicated by reference numeral . That is simulators tend to be pre configured for a single purpose and operated in isolation so that a driving simulator only supports a driving experience a shooting simulator only supports a shooting experience etc. Changes to the pre configured core simulator capabilities can typically be expected to be time consuming and relatively expensive to implement.

As shown in the simulated participant system may interoperate with the simulators using a standard communication protocol . For example the standard communication protocol may be DIS Distributed Interactive Simulation or HLA High Level Architecture or other known protocols. However in other implementations a proprietary i.e. non open communication protocol may be alternatively or optionally utilized as indicated by the dashed lines in to implement communication and interoperability between the simulated participant system and a simulator as may be required to meet the needs of a particular application of the present simulated participant system.

As shown in the combination of the simulator and system essentially function as an integrated simulator platform . That is the simulated participant system enables enhanced functionality to be readily added to the native functionality of simulator . Such enhanced functionality may be implemented in a seamless and transparent manner so that the capabilities of the simulator can be expanded for example to cover additional usage scenarios provide a more feature rich and or diverse user experience or extend the useful life of an existing simulator. In many applications the simulated participant system is configured and operates substantially as a cost effective software plug in to existing simulators to implement the integrated platform on a plug and play basis. In other applications the simulated participant system may be implemented using a combination of software and hardware or hardware alone in some cases.

This integrated approach in providing enhanced functionality enables a flexible cost effective and scalable solution for both current and legacy simulators. More specifically the present simulated participant system may be arranged to be integrated and interoperate across diverse simulators. For example as shown in the simulated participant system interoperates with three different military type simulators including a ground combat simulator an airborne simulator and a vehicle simulator . It is emphasized that these particular simulators are intended to be illustrative and that other types and kinds of simulators in other areas e.g. industrial emergency response 911 law enforcement air traffic control firefighting education sports commercial engineering medicine gaming entertainment etc. could also be utilized depending on the requirements of a particular usage scenario.

When configured to operate on a cross platform basis the simulated participant system can be utilized to provide simulated participants of uniform or different types to a given simulator. Such cross platform simulation can typically be expected to give the live participants who use the simulator a richer more immersive and more realistic experience.

Such a flexible and scalable capability is highlighted in where the simulated participant system is shown as providing a varying number and different types of simulated participants to the simulator . As shown a single simulated participant which in this illustrative example is a simulated participant generated through interoperation with the ground combat simulator FIG. can be supplied to the simulator . Alternatively the number of simulated ground combat participants can be scaled up from 2 . . . N as indicated by reference numeral so that for example a complete squad platoon company etc. of simulated ground combat participants could be provided to the simulator to interact with one or more live participants who are using the simulator .

Similarly one or more simulated drivers generated by the simulated participant system through interoperation with the vehicle simulator as indicated by reference numeral in could also be provided to the simulator . Thus for example the live participants could gain the training benefit of conversing with a simulated driver over a radio link or calling in an entire convoy of vehicles to support a given simulated mission. Simulated pilots which are generated by the simulated participant system through interoperation with the airborne simulator could also be provided to the simulator as indicated by reference numeral to support interactions between the live participants and a single simulated pilot for example or an entire squadron of pilots as the needs of a particular simulated training scenario demand. In all of the above examples the simulated participant system enables a rapid easy to implement and readily scalable solution to be deployed at the simulator . In addition the support for multiple participant types enabled by the cross platform simulation feature described above can further broaden the scope of training and add realism to even relatively narrowly purposed simulators.

The input is utilized for parallel purposes as indicated by reference numeral in including functioning as an input to train the system as it generates and maintains simulated participants reference numeral as well as functioning as situational stimuli to trigger the system to provide appropriate responses and actions from the simulated participants as a simulation unfolds reference numeral .

Thus the voice and actions of a live participant named Sergeant Jones in this illustrative example can be monitored by the simulated participant system as he engages in a ground combat simulation supported by simulator . Such monitoring enables the system to generate a virtual model for a virtual Sergeant Jones which can then be subsequently utilized as a simulated participant in the ground combat simulator when the live Sergeant Jones is not participating or as a simulated participant in another simulator on a cross platform basis. Typically a generic virtual model can be initially utilized which can then be augmented and or refined iteratively in some cases using the data observed and collected during the monitoring. The monitoring can be performed continuously in a closed loop manner as Sergeant Jones interacts with the simulation so that the simulated participant system can constantly train itself to generate maintain and update the virtual model of Sergeant Jones to be as accurate as possible.

The input further functions as stimuli to the simulated participant system to invoke actions and responses from those simulated participants supported by the system in a given simulation. For example assume live Sergeant Jones is absent from participating in a training simulation run on the ground combat simulator while the rest of his squad is available to participate in the training The simulated participant system can then provide a virtual Sergeant Jones as a simulated participant to the ground combat simulator . During the training simulation a question from a live soldier in Sergeant Jones squad will be used to invoke a response e.g. a verbal response such as a command or an action from the virtual Sergeant Jones. The response is generated by the simulated participant system and based on a virtual model created and maintained by observing live Sergeant Jones during prior simulations. As a result the response from virtual Sergeant Jones would appear to the live soldier be the same response that he or she would expect to come from the live Sergeant Jones.

As indicated by reference numeral the output from the simulated participant system includes simulated voices and actions . The output can be provided to a simulator as a response to a situational stimulus for example. In addition the output can be utilized as feedback through a feedback loop to the simulated participant system as part of its constant training capability. In this regard for example when live Sergeant Jones participates in a subsequent training simulation his actual characteristics and behavior as expressed by voice responses and actions can be compared against his virtual model and the similarities and or differences between the actual and modeled behavior may be used to update the model.

A simulated participant profile is also supported in the module which may be implemented using a cognitive model in conjunction with a virtual model store a command response store and a named entity store for storing the recognized and identified named entities. The conversations and actions of live participants when interacting with a simulator are continuously monitored on the fly using the action conversation monitors so that action patterns may be observed modeled and stored in store on an individual per participant basis i.e. on an identified named entity basis . Typically the modeling includes abstracting the actions and generating action representations using descriptions and annotations of key features. Similarly conversations occurring during a simulation including commands and responses of live participants are monitored tracked and stored on a per participant basis in the virtual model store .

As noted above the simulated participant system operates to constantly train itself. Accordingly the expert system module will evaluate the accuracy of the virtual models it generates by predicting actions and or responses of live participants using appropriate similarity algorithms and comparing the predicted actions responses against the observed actual actions responses to determine the success or failure of the prediction. If the difference exceeds an accuracy tolerance then the applicable virtual models can be adjusted for example by collecting more observations of a live participant increasing the number of stored responses or by adjusting the mix of rules or the rules themselves applied by expert system module when generating the simulated actions and responses.

As shown in the correlation utilized in the expert system module uses a set of similarity algorithms that includes command response relatedness and command response correlation . Relatedness and correlation are known relatedness is based on a verbal response to a command given to a target i.e. a subject of detected phrase while Pearson s correlation coefficients may be used to create similarity weights for the resulting actions prompted by the command.

The text is parsed to identify relevant parts of speech and named entities at block and targets and utterance types are identified at block . At block communications among the live participants are tracked through application of the similarity algorithms. Simulated participant virtual models can then be built and adjusted when necessary as shown at block .

Situational stimuli from the simulator are received at block and are used as triggers to generate simulated responses at block . As part of the simulated participant system s continuous training feature the simulated response is compared against an actual response whenever a live participant engaging in a simulation may be observed as shown at block . At block the success or failure of prediction is determined and the applicable virtual model may be adjusted at block in view of such success or failure. The simulated participant system will output a simulated response to the simulator in an appropriate format at block . At block control is returned back to the start block so that the simulated participant system operates in a closed loop manner.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

