---

title: Method and system for maintaining textsites on a global textsite platform
abstract: A method for accessing content using a global textsite platform including registering a unique keyword received from a publisher, receiving content from the publisher for creating a textsite associated with the unique keyword, creating the textsite on behalf of the publisher, receiving, from a user, a request to access the textsite, processing the request from the user, and providing access to the textsite by sending the content of the textsite, via a text messaging service (TMS), to a user mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08532638&OS=08532638&RS=08532638
owner: Intuit Inc.
number: 08532638
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100319
---
This application is related to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 728 169 filed on Mar. 19 2010 and entitled ACCESSING TEXT SITES USING TEXT MESSAGING SERVICE also assigned to the assignee of the present application the subject matter of which is incorporated by reference herein.

Today s mobile devices such as smart phones allow users to browse the Internet from any location to obtain information on demand. As long as a user is in an area with the proper telecommunication network and subscribes to a data plan the user is provided with access to the Internet for web browsing to obtain information such as phone numbers for service provides map out a particular destination location and obtain information relevant to the user s current or next activity. However there are often instances in which a user wishes to access only limited information for a quick answer to a question e.g. what are the next available show times for a particular movie . In this scenario browsing the website for the movie theater or a service provider website that provides movie show times such as Fandango may be cumbersome on the mobile device. Specifically loading all the graphics and advertisements associated with websites on a mobile device can take additional time. Alternatively the entire website may provide too much data to navigate through when a user desires only a specific piece of information. In addition for mobile device users who do not subscribe to a data plan for browsing the Internet are in an area without the proper telecommunication network or do not have browsing capability on their mobile device accessing such information on demand is not possible.

One solution to the aforementioned problem is for content publishers to provide information to users on mobile devices via text messaging such as using Short Messaging Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS etc. Due to the growth and penetration of SMS capable mobile devices the content publishers and service providers have attempted to enable access to its content and products via SMS. To facilitate providing content via SMS each content publisher and or service provider is required to secure its own SMS codes per country or per geographic region. For example Google has reserved codes 466453 for the United States and 9773300000 for India. Similarly Facebook has reserved code 32665 for the United States and code 9232232665 for India Facebook is a registered trademark of Facebook Inc. located in Palo Alto Calif. . Once a local mobile code is provisioned by a local operator of that particular geographic region a custom adapter is required to be developed to integrate with local operator APIs for sending and receiving SMS. Accordingly the publisher must create such an adapter. The need for such an adapter often makes offering a company s content via SMS from multiple countries to mobile device users a barrier for a typical web content publisher or web based service provider.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for accessing content using a global textsite platform comprising registering a unique keyword received from a publisher receiving content from the publisher for creating a textsite associated with the unique keyword creating the textsite on behalf of the publisher receiving from a user a request to access the textsite processing the request from the user and providing access to the textsite by sending the content of the textsite via a text messaging service TMS to a user mobile device.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for publishing content using a global textsite platform comprising registering by a publisher a unique keyword with the global textsite platform authoring content associated with the registered unique keyword using publishing tools provided by the global textsite platform wherein the publisher registers the unique keyword and authors content by communicating with the global textsite platform using a text messaging service TMS and obtaining a textsite associated with the registered unique keyword and provided by the global textsite platform wherein the textsite comprises the authored content.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a method for accessing content hosted by a global textsite platform by a user using a user mobile device comprising obtaining a registered unique keyword associated with a desired textsite sending via a text messaging service TMS using the user mobile device a text message comprising the registered unique keyword to the global textsite platform and receiving a text message response via the TMS comprising a homepage of the textsite.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a computer readable storage medium comprising software instructions for providing access to content hosted by a global textsite platform that when executed comprise functionality to register a unique keyword received from a publisher receive content from the publisher for creating a textsite associated with the unique keyword create the textsite on behalf of the publisher receive from a user a request to access the textsite process the request from the user and provide access to the textsite by sending the content of the textsite via a text messaging service TMS to a user mobile device.

In general in one aspect the invention relates to a system for providing content comprising a repository configured to store a plurality of registered unique keywords and a plurality of publishing tools wherein the plurality of publishing tools are used by a publisher to author content for at least one of a plurality of textsites hosted by a global textsite platform an agent located within the global textsite platform and configured to receive a request to access a textsite of the plurality of textsites from a user mobile device and send a response comprising the content of the textsite to the user mobile device via a text messaging service TMS and a server comprising a processor and configured to host the plurality of textsites.

Other aspects of the invention will be apparent from the following description and the appended claims.

Specific embodiments of the invention will now be described in detail with reference to the accompanying figures. Like elements in the various figures are denoted by like reference numerals for consistency.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known features have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily complicating the description.

In general embodiments of the invention provide a method and system for providing access to content via a text messaging service. Specifically access to publish content and access to browse the published content is provided by a global textsite platform that is globally accessible by publishers and users in a variety of geographic locations. Embodiments of the invention also provide a method and system for a global textsite platform that may be used by existing web publishers and new publishers to easily publish content that is accessible by any mobile user of text messaging services throughout the world.

Generally a publisher may be any person or entity that wishes for users to have access to information content via a text messaging service. More specifically a publisher may be any developer or service provider that provides a service or a product for users. For example a publisher may be a restaurant owner that creates a textsite to provide information about his her restaurant. A publisher may possess in one or more embodiments of the invention a publisher mobile device . In one or more embodiments of the invention the publisher may optionally possess a computing device such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a thin computer a mobile device associated with a data plan subscription e.g. a smart phone a tablet a pad device a gaming device a personal digital assistant etc. a combination thereof or any other suitable electronic computing device that is capable of connecting to the global textsite platform via the Internet . The computing device may provide greater functionality to interact with the global textsite platform than the publisher mobile device . Accordingly the interaction with the global textsite platform may be accomplished using a network such as the Internet rather than a telecommunication network . In one or more embodiments of the invention the computing device includes functionality such as the computing device shown in and described below.

The publisher mobile device may be any mobile device such as a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA device a global system mobile GSM device a 3G device a 4G device or any other suitable mobile device that includes text messaging functionality. The publisher mobile device includes a display a microchip and a text messaging service TMS input output module . In one or more embodiments of the invention the publisher mobile device is operatively connected to a global textsite platform via a telecommunication network . The telecommunication network may be any network that facilitates the exchange of messages from one part of the network to another. For example the telecommunication network may be a wide area network a local area network a public switched telephone network PSTN or any other suitable network for exchanging messages between the global textsite platform and the publisher mobile device .

The display of the publisher mobile device may be a display screen using technology such as liquid crystal display LCD a light emitting diode LED organic light emitting diode OLED or any other suitable type of display screen capable of displaying the content of received text messages and the content of a text message that is being composed on the publisher mobile device . The microchip may be any tangible hardware processor s or microprocessor s for executing the functionalities of the publisher mobile device . More specifically the microchip executes the software application s that provide functionalities such as browsing text messaging maintaining a contact list and making phone calls etc. The TMS input output module may be a virtual keyboard a physical keyboard or any other input output device s or button s that allows the publisher to compose text messages and receive and read text message responses.

Continuing with the global textsite platform is a framework for providing publishers with publishing tools for authoring content that is accessible via a text messaging service TMS . The TMS may be for example an SMS an MMS or any other text messaging service which is now known or later developed. In one or more embodiments of the invention a textsite is one or more pages of content that is made globally accessible via a TMS. Similar to websites known today which are made globally accessible via the Internet a textsite includes a homepage and one or more text pages that are hierarchically and or organizationally linked to the homepage for browsing information contained on one or more text pages of the textsite.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform executes on one or more computing device s e.g. a server a computer system as shown in and described below etc. and may be hosted by an entity such as a corporation. In one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform is associated with a platform syntax that is specific to the global textsite platform and that facilitates communication via a TMS. For example text messages exchanged with the global textsite platform may require less than a predetermined number of characters e.g. less than 160 characters and may begin and end with particular reserved keywords. Examples of reserved keywords include but are not limited to new delete register update location etc. In addition reserved keyword may include specific punctuation or combinations of punctuation marks such as . for navigating backward and for a new request directed to the global textsite platform to perform some action. Further in one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform may be associated with different unique phone numbers or codes corresponding to each different geographic locations. Alternatively a single unique global number code may be associated with the global textsite platform .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform includes numerous components including a repository a server publishing tools and an agent . Each component is described below in related to except for the agent which is described with respect to .

The repository is configured with functionality to store keywords . The repository may be any datastore flat file hierarchical file relational database enterprise wide database etc. capable of storing data regardless where or in what form the data originates. Keywords may be reserved or pre designated keywords maintained by the platform as part of the platform syntax and publisher keywords that are registered by publishers for each textsite authored by a publisher. In one or more embodiments of the invention pre designated keywords and publisher registered keywords are unique. That is no two keywords from the group of keywords that are pre designated as platform syntax or the group of keywords provided by a publisher are allowed to be identical. In fact in one or more embodiments of the invention the keywords are closely controlled by the global textsite platform in an effort to eliminate duplicates. Navigating keywords which a publisher defines for a textsite that is associated with a unique registered keyword are also used. Navigating keywords are not required to be unique. For example two distinct publishers with distinct registered keywords representing a first and a second textsite may use the same navigating keyword for different text pages associated with the first and second textsites.

In one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform is configured with functionality to receive a unique keyword from a publisher and create a textsite on behalf of the publisher. Further the global textsite platform is configured with functionality to receive content authored by the publisher using the publishing tools provided by the global textsite platform . In one or more embodiments of the invention publishing tools may include any software or hardware tool that aids a publisher in authoring content for a textsite to the global textsite platform . Publishing tools may be maintained by the global textsite platform . For example in one or more embodiments of the invention publishing tools may include but are not limited to a registration service that registers unique keywords for each textsite a text messaging protocol for sending and receiving text messages via a TMS a page status tool for displaying the number of visits a particular publisher textsite has received a tool for printing a flyer to advertise a registered keyword associated with a created textsite a tool for integrating content from third party websites with a created textsite or any other suitable tool for authoring content for a textsite. The text messaging protocol for example may be a protocol that specifies syntax and semantics for exchanging messages via a TMS with the global textsite platform .

The global textsite platform also includes a server configured to host the plurality of textsites created and maintained by the global textsite platform on behalf of publishers. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the server may be any computing device with a large storage capacity for hosting the plurality of textsites .

In one or more embodiments of the invention the user mobile device is operatively connected to the global textsite platform via a telecommunication network . The global textsite platform includes a repository for storing keywords publishing tools a server configured to host a plurality of textsites and an agent . The user mobile device includes a display a microchip and a TMS input output module . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the aforementioned global textsite platform components and user mobile device components are capable of the same functionality described above with respect to one difference being that the components of the user mobile device include functionality to execute software display text messages and take TMS input from a user and output TMS responses to the user browsing a textsite rather than a publisher.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a user is defined as a person or entity accessing content published by publishers and hosted by the global textsite platform . In one or more embodiments of the invention a user is a person or entity with a mobile device that does not have a data plan subscription. Rather the user is able to obtain data using the mobile device only via a TMS. That is embodiments of the invention pertain specifically to users accessing content only via a TMS. Those skilled in the art will appreciate however that although embodiments of the invention target users that communicate via a TMS the invention is not limited to such users. Specifically while embodiments of the invention are directed to providing access to textsites to users using a mobile phone via a TMS some users may exist that have the capability to access content on the global textsite platform via a computing device that is connected to the Internet . For example in one or more embodiments a user may use a text message emulator executing on the computing device to connect to the global textsite platform via the Internet . Alternatively users with smart phones and or mobile devices that support Internet browsing functionality could access content on the global textsite platform using the Internet .

In the user system of the global textsite platform is configured to receive a text message from the user mobile device that includes a request to access a textsite hosted by the global textsite platform . Further the global textsite platform is configured to process the request received from the user mobile device and to provide the content from the desired textsite to the user s mobile device via a TMS.

To facilitate this interaction with a user mobile device the global textsite platform includes an agent . In one or more embodiments of the invention the agent may be software that is the component of the global textsite platform which communicates with a user mobile device . Specifically the agent is configured with functionality to receive a text message from a user mobile device parse the text message for the relevant keywords or platform specific syntax and respond to the user request with the content from the requested textsite back to the user mobile device in accordance with one or more embodiments of the invention. In one or more embodiments of the invention when a textsite integrates content from a third party website the agent is further configured with functionality to forward the relevant information from a user request to the third party website receive and process a response to the user request from the third party website and forward the response or the content of the response from the third party website directly to the user s mobile phone via a TMS.

Initially the global textsite platform registers a unique keyword obtained form a publisher ST . More specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform receives a text message from a publisher mobile device or receives input on the web interface of the platform from a publisher with a request to register a keyword for a textsite. If the keyword is unique i.e. if the keyword has not already been registered by another publisher or is not one of the reserved keywords for the text messaging protocol syntax the global textsite platform registers the unique keyword as being associated with a new textsite and stores the keyword in the repository of the platform. To check whether the keyword registration request is for a unique keyword the global textsite platform may compare the received keyword to the keywords already stored in the platform repository or search for any matching keywords that may already exist in the repository. To facilitate this the repository may organize registered and reserved keywords in a searchable data structure and use mechanisms well known in the art to efficiently search the stored keywords. For example the global textsite platform may organize the stored keywords in a hierarchical tree structure such as a binary tree hash tables and or combinations thereof for searching the repository. Further the global textsite platform may employ search algorithms such as tree search algorithms or hash algorithms to search the data structure of keywords.

In one or more embodiments of the invention if the publisher sends a text message for registration of a keyword via a mobile device the global textsite platform may link the created textsite to the phone number of the publisher s mobile device and store this mapping in the platform repository. The global textsite platform may then be able to automatically know which textsite is being modified each time a text message is received from the same publisher mobile device.

Next the global textsite platform receives content for the textsite from the publisher ST . Using the content received from the publisher and the registered keyword the global textsite platform creates a textsite on behalf of the publisher ST . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the global textsite platform may create an empty or default textsite without any content after successful registration of a unique keyword by a publisher. Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention publishing tools provided by the global textsite platform may include a tool that creates a default or empty textsite upon registration of a unique keyword by a publisher. More specifically the global textsite platform may provide a publisher with part of a hierarchical structure for a textsite including an empty or minimal homepage and one or more sample text pages that may have a hierarchical relationship to the homepage of the textsite via standard navigating keywords. The sample text pages may be simple static text pages. Alternatively a textsite may be created after a first portion of content is received from a publisher.

Continuing with at this stage a determination is made as to whether the global textsite platform receives a request to update the content of the textsite from the publisher ST . If a request to update a textsite is received then the global textsite platform updates the textsite with additional content or removes older content to add the updated content provided by the publisher.

Alternatively if no request for updating the textsite is received by the publisher once a textsite is created and content for the textsite is authored by the publisher the global textsite platform receives a request for access to the textsite from a user ST . Specifically the global textsite platform receives a text message via a TMS from a user mobile device where the text message includes a request to access a particular textsite hosted by the platform. At this stage the global textsite platform processes the request from the user mobile device ST . In one or more embodiments of the invention processing the request from the user mobile device may involve parsing the text message to determine the relevant keywords and text message protocol syntax that indicates the content that the user requests access to and obtaining the content from the requested textsite for the user. In addition processing the request from the user mobile device may include forwarding the text message to a third party website and receiving a response from the third party website with the content requested by the user. Finally the global textsite platform sends the content of the requested textsite to the user via a TMS ST . More specifically the global textsite platform sends a response in the form of a text message to the text message received from the user s mobile device. The text message response includes the content requested by the user e.g. the content of the homepage for a requested textsite etc.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that although not discussed in the global textsite platform may also advertise its own semantics and syntax associated with the text messaging protocol to publishers and users. For example the global textsite platform may advertise reserved keywords for creating a new textsite registering a keyword etc. and syntax such as the sign representing syntax for a command to be performed by the global textsite platform and or the sign representing syntax for navigating to a text page of a textsite for a user.

Initially a publisher registers a unique keyword with the global textsite platform ST . In one or more embodiments of the invention the request to register a unique keyword beings with the reserved keyword register. More specifically in one or more embodiments the publisher sends a text message via a TMS to phone number or code associated with the global textsite platform. In one or more embodiments of the invention the phone number or code may be a local number or a local code corresponding to the geographic location of the publisher. Alternatively the phone number or code may be a globally accessible number code that is the same for all geographic locations.

Next upon receiving a confirmation of the registered keyword the publisher uses publishing tools provided by the global textsite platform to author content for the textsite associated with the registered keyword. Specifically for example the publisher may use the text messaging protocol of the global textsite platform to provide content for the homepage of the textsite and navigational keywords for text pages that may be linked to the homepage of the textsite. Further the publisher may also provide content for each of the text pages linked to the homepage of the textsite. For example a new textsite created for a restaurant may be associated with a unique keyword that is the name of the restaurant. The homepage of the textsite for the restaurant may have a welcome message and navigating keywords such as Menu Location and Recipes. Each of the navigating keywords may be associated with a text page with additional information pertaining to the navigating keyword. All the content for the homepage and each linked text page are provided by the publisher. However in one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform may publish advertisements on a textsite created on behalf of a publisher. Thus for example the global textsite platform may publish advertisement content provided by a second publisher on a textsite of a first publisher.

At this stage a determination is made as to whether the publisher requests to integrate third party website content with the authored content of the textsite ST . If the publisher wishes to integrate third party website content then the publisher creates an adapter to integrate content from an existing website using an application programming interface API provided as a publishing tool by the global textsite platform. Specifically the publisher provides the website URL to the global textsite platform and creates a servlet i.e. software code for processing a user request to access the content of the textsite and responding to the user request with a formatted version of the content from the third party website ST . That is the servlet is configured to take content from the third party website and format the content e.g. stripping the content to only the relevant text to conform to text messaging protocol of the global textsite platform. Said another way the servlet may perform screen scraping to obtain relevant content from a third party website for incorporation into a textsite. In one or more embodiments of the invention the servlet may reside on the web server hosting the third party website from which content is integrated into the publisher s textsite. Alternatively the servlet may reside on the global textsite platform.

If the publisher does not wish to integrate content from a third party website with the textsite then the process advances to ST in which the publisher advertises the registered keyword to users. In one or more embodiments of the invention the publisher may use the Print Flyer publishing tool provided by the global textsite platform to generate and print hard copies of flyers advertising the registered keyword for the publisher textsite. The flyers may be put up at various locations for advertising the publisher s registered keyword so that users obtain the keyword for accessing the textsite. Alternatively publishers may advertise keywords by word of mouth or by publishing the keyword on the Internet e.g. on a blog or on a website associated with the publisher .

At this stage a determination is made as to whether the publisher would like to update the content on the textsite ST . In one or more embodiments of the invention a request to update a textsite begins with the reserved keyword update and is followed by the keyword for the text page within a textsite that is to be updated with new content. The publisher then sends the new content for the updated textsite ST . If no update to the content is desired then the process ends.

Initially a user obtains a registered unique keyword for a desired textsite ST . Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention a user may obtain a registered unique keyword through an advertisement for the registered keyword. Upon obtaining the registered keyword for the desired textsite that the user wishes to browse or obtain information regarding the user sends using a mobile device a text message including the unique keyword to a local number of the global textsite platform ST . More specifically the user sends a text message via a TMS such as SMS or MMS to a local number corresponding to a geographic location of the user. The text message includes the registered keyword for the desired textsite. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the user may be in any global geographic location when requesting access to a textsite as access to the platform is globally available to any user with TMS functionality on a mobile device.

Subsequently the user receives a response from the global textsite platform including the homepage of the textsite that is associated with the registered unique keyword sent by the user ST . At this stage the user may communicate with the global textsite platform by exchanging a series of text messages and receiving text message responses to navigate the textsite ST . Further detail on navigating textsites by a user including examples of screen shots detailing what a user text message and a response from the global textsite platform may look like may be found in copending related application with the application Ser. No. 12 728 169 the subject matter of which has been incorporated by reference above.

Continuing with in one or more embodiments of the invention a user after navigating a desired textsite may request to subscribe to the textsite ST . If a user wishes to subscribe to a particular textsite the user may send in one or more embodiments of the invention a text message including the reserved keyword subscribe followed by the registered keyword of the textsite to the global textsite platform ST . In this case the user may receive a text message from the global textsite platform every time content on the subscribed textsite changes or is updated. This may be a desired feature for example for obtaining stock tips or performing day trading via a textsite. Alternatively if the user does not wish to subscribe to the current textsite which the user is navigating the process ends. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that a user may subscribe to a textsite at any time with or without having navigating or browsed the textsite.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a homesite associated with the global textsite platform may include sample textsites for user browsing see which shows a screen shot of the global textsite platform homesite with suggested sample textsites without displaying an example textsite as is displayed in . For example as shown in the menu bar may include links to publishing tools such as print flyer and profile options that may be selected modified by a publisher such as such as sign out and update profile. The status bar may include status messages about a current textsite such as the number of visitors to the textsite to the text pages within the textsite and the number of times the keyword registered to the textsite has been requested by a user.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the homesite for the global textsite platform is completely configurable by the service provider hosting the global textsite platform and may include a variety of different menus selection options and may present content via text message exchanges in a variety of ways. Furthermore the homesite for the global textsite may be static or dynamic. For example the homesite may be static and display pre designated keywords for browsing the global textsite platform or may display dynamic information such as the current most popular textsites at a given point in time.

Turning to the specific example shown in the homesite shown displays a textsite associated with the keyword vaso. The authored content area includes the content provided by the publisher for the homepage of the vaso textsite including a welcome message i.e. Welcome to Vaso Azzurro Restaurant and three navigating keywords represented by numbers i.e. 1 2 and 3 that a user browsing the textsite vaso is shown when the vaso homepage is retrieved for the user. Next to the number navigating keywords are identifiers or labels Location Panini and Entrees respectively. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the labels may also be the navigating keywords or a combination of either the number and or the labels may serve as navigating keywords. The textsite hierarchy area displays the hierarchy of the text pages corresponding to the Location Panini and Entrees navigating keywords. In one or more embodiments of the invention the syntax and . are used by the global textsite platform to manage the hierarchy of text pages for textsite vaso and response to a user text message with the correct text page requested. Specifically the sign is syntax used by the publisher to create text pages hierarchically linked to a textsite homepage. Further the . is used to delineate text pages of a textsite similar to the delineator for web pages of a website.

In an example is shown where the user sends a text message to a number associated with the global textsite platform with the registered keyword vaso for browsing the textsite associated with the restaurant Vaso Azzurro. shows an example of the response that the user would receive from the global textsite platform . Specifically the user receives in one or more embodiments of the invention the authored content for the textsite associated with registered keyword vaso delineated by the . mark via a text message transmitted using a TMS. The text message received on the user s mobile device includes all the information stored in the homesite of the textsite vaso including the welcome message and the navigating keywords for browsing text pages associated with the textsite vaso.

In addition in one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform may publish an advertisement AD for another textsite created by the same or a different publisher on the vaso textsite. This is similar to how a website includes ads for other websites that may be navigated to using a link that may be contained in the website ad. In the example shown in an advertisement AD beginning with reserved keyword AD is sent to the user mobile device as part of the homepage content for the vaso textsite. In the example of the ad sent in the text message to the user mobile device is for another restaurant serving pumpkin ravioli. A user may reply via text message with the keyword AD and be directed to the textsite associated with the restaurant whose advertisement appears on the vaso textsite.

In one or more embodiments of the invention a publisher may integrate existing website content or existing textsite content with the publisher s textsite. For example a publisher may provide the global textsite platform with an appsite URL from which the publisher wishes to integrate content and generate a servlet for receiving a request for content from the third party website from the global textsite platform parsing the content of the third party website and responding to the global textsite platform with relevant text from the third party website. In this scenario the global textsite platform stores the apposite URL linked to the publisher textsite and forwards a user text message to the servlet resident on the third party website and forwards the received response from the servlet to the user mobile device via a TMS.

Alternatively in one or more embodiments of the invention the global textsite platform may integrate content from existing websites for reserved keyword services provided by the global textsite platform. For example some sample textsites provided by the global textsite platform may include textsites for weather information movie show times a textsite for the service provider e.g. an entity such as a corporation hosting the global textsite platform etc.

In either of the two cases described above the global textsite platform provides an application programming interface API for publishers or the service provider of the global textsite platform itself to integrate content from third party websites. Publishers and or the service provider may create adapters for parsing and formatting the relevant content from the third party website so that the content is easily provided via a TMS to a user mobile device.

Turning to the specific example of the global textsite platform has integrated content from a third party website for textsite .movies . Specifically in one or more embodiments of the invention the textsite .movies represented by reserved keyword movies integrates content from the appsite URL http localhost 8888 showTimes. Consider the scenario in which a user responds to the text message with the global textsite platform homepage as shown in by sending a text message with keyword movies followed by the name of a movie or a specific movie theater name using the user mobile device . Because the textsite for keyword movies integrates content from an existing third party website the global textsite platform may forward the request to a servlet resident on the appsite URL included in text box . The servlet then parses the content of the appsite URL and returns movie show times to the global textsite platform which then forward the movie show times received from the third party website URL to the user mobile phone via a TMS.

In the specific example of the textsite for restaurant Zucca registered with keyword zucca is converted to a website URL in the form of http localhost 8888 site zucca. The textsite home page for restaurant Zucca is shown in the mobile device . The same content shown in the mobile device is also shown in the website homepage . That is the homepage of the textsite for Zucca is converted to a homepage of the website URL with each navigating keyword for text pages of textsite .zucca e.g. numbers 1 2 and 3 not shown or label identifier such as Location Pita Wraps and Tapas being converted to hyperlinks that may be selected for viewing the same content authored by the publisher for each text page.

Embodiments of the invention provide a globally accessible platform that provides access to content via a TMS to mobile device users that may not subscribe to a data plan for obtaining information via web browsing or by connecting to the Internet. Accordingly an end user browsing textsites hosted by the global textsite platform is not required to log into a web interface or downloading any data when using textsites to obtain information. Specifically embodiments of the invention provide global textsite platform for creating maintaining and providing access to textsites created by the global textsite platform or by publishers developers service providers of content. The global textsite platform is globally accessible by publishers developers service providers authoring content and by users browsing the content on textsites in any geographic location. For example a local resident in a village in India or another emerging country who does not subscribe to a data plan but uses a mobile device to text make phone calls may query the global textsite server for local restaurants in the village or obtain information about local showtimes for a movie in a nearby theater all via a TMS by exchanging text messages with the global textsite platform. Similarly on the publisher side the owner of the restaurant can advertise the unique registered keyword for their restaurant and provide information about the food served or the location and hours of the restaurant to local residents without the residents requiring any Internet connection or data plan on their mobile device.

Further in one or more embodiments of the invention a service provider of the global textsite platform e.g. corporation or entity hosting the global textsite platform may monetize on the access to content provided by charging for placement of advertisements on textsites charging for premium transactions performed using the textsite such as purchasing movie tickets using a textsite charging a subscription fee for subscribing to textsites commercializing keyword registration or monetizing on services offered in any other suitable manner.

The invention may be implemented on virtually any type of computer regardless of the platform being used. For example as shown in a networked computer system includes a processor associated memory a storage device and numerous other elements and functionalities typical of today s computers not shown . The networked computer may also include input means such as a keyboard and a mouse and output means such as a monitor . The networked computer system is connected to a local area network LAN or a wide area network e.g. the Internet not shown via a network interface connection not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that these input and output means may take other forms now known or later developed. Further those skilled in the art will appreciate that one or more elements of the aforementioned computer may be located at a remote location and connected to the other elements over a network.

Further the invention may be implemented on a distributed system having a plurality of nodes where each portion of the invention may be located on a different node within the distributed system. In one or more embodiments of the invention the node corresponds to a computer system. Alternatively the node may correspond to a processor with associated physical memory.

In one or more embodiments of the invention software instructions to perform embodiments of the invention when executed by a processor may be stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a compact disc CD a diskette a tape or any other tangible computer readable storage device. Further one or more embodiments of the invention may be implemented as an Application Program Interface API executing on a computer system s where the API includes one or more software instructions.

While the invention has been described with respect to a limited number of embodiments those skilled in the art having benefit of this disclosure will appreciate that other embodiments can be devised which do not depart from the scope of the invention as disclosed herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be limited only by the attached claims.

