---

title: System for clinical assessment of movement disorders
abstract: According to one embodiment of the present invention, the system for clinical assessment of movement disorders (iTUG) is comprised of a) a protocol to assess gait, balance, and mobility; b) a plurality of wearable sensors including accelerometers, gyroscopes, magnetometers, optical sensors, and goniometers to record kinematics data obtained from a patient during said protocol; c) means for wirelessly transmitting said kinematics data to a storage and data processing server; and d) a plurality of statistical and biomedical signal processing methods to analyze said kinematic data and derive a plurality of metrics (outcomes) to objectively quantify movement disorders. A specially important outcome for the assessment of movement disorders is described, namely, the quantification of the onset and offset parameters during turning. A method for quantification of said onset and offset turning parameters involves 1) collecting data to measure the angle of the trunk during turning, 2) modeling said angle using a mathematical model, and 3) using numerical optimization and estimation methods for fitting the model in the data to determine said onset and offset turning parameters.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08876739&OS=08876739&RS=08876739
owner: Oregon Health & Science University
number: 08876739
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100723
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 228 326 filed Jul. 24 2009 entitled System for Clinical Assessment of Movement Disorders the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Contract No. 5R37AG006457 23 awarded by The National Institutes of Health NIA AG006457 . The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to methods and apparatus for assessment of movement disorders. Specifically it relates to methods for obtaining quantitative outcomes for gait and postural transitions that are relevant for testing patients with balance and gait deficits as well as a neurological and musculoskeletal constraints.

Current methods for assessing improvement in movement disorders in clinical trials and clinical practice are insensitive qualitative offer limited reliability and repeatability and require a large number of subjects. Many patients have gait and balance resulting in high fall risk but clinicians have no practical method to objectively measure these responses for either clinical trials or clinical practice. Postural transitions such as rising from a chair and turning are particularly difficult for people with movement disorders such as Parkinson s disease or the frail elderly. The most commonly used test of fall risk from problems with postural transitions and slow gait is the Get Up and Go test clinical TUG .

The Timed Up and Go test TUG is a widely used clinical test to evaluate balance and mobility. The TUG test uses a stop watch to time how long it takes a subject to stand up from a chair walk 3 meters turn 180 degrees walk back to the chair and sit down. The TUG test has been shown to predict falls in the elderly reflect balance deficits and correlate with severity of moderate to severe Parkinson s disease. The clinical utility of the TUG is probably due to sequencing several mobility skills such as turning and sit to stand transitions that require balance control as well as straight ahead gait.

The traditional TUG is limited however because performance is rated only by a single total duration score from a stop watch so that it is not possible to determine which balance or gait subcomponent of performance are affected. Recently researches have used a stop watch to measure the duration of each of the four subcomponents of the TUG namely sit to stand gait turning and turn to sit. However using a stop watch to find exact time of a rapid sequence of activities is difficult. To address this issue a recent study used inertial sensors to measure the duration of each subcomponent of the TUG test automatically.

An important step needed to build a complete system to analyze all subcomponents of the TUG test is to analyze 180 turns. A difficulty in analyzing turning is defining the onset and offset of turns. Researchers have used angular velocity in the yaw axis and a fixed threshold to define onset and offset of turning. A problem with fixed thresholds is that their exact value is hard to justify may be dependent on the population and tends to be influenced by noise and movement artifacts.

Besides providing detailed assessment of subjects performance a useful movement analysis system should be reliable. The TUG itself is a reliable test and a recent study has shown good test retest reliability for the duration of its subcomponents. A useful clinical assessment tool also needs to be sensitive to pathology. While it is known that patients with advanced stages of Parkinson s disease PD show impaired motor performance compared to control subjects it is difficult to identify mobility deficits in very early stages of their disease.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form NB or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous and are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. .

With respect to the use of any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

This disclosure relates to methods and apparatus for assessment of movement disorders. Specifically it relates to methods for obtaining quantitative outcomes for gait and postural transitions that are relevant for testing patients with balance and gait deficits as well as a neurological and musculoskeletal constraints. In exemplary embodiments a computing device may be endowed with one or more components of the disclosed apparatuses and or systems and may be employed to perform one or more methods as disclosed herein.

According to one embodiment the protocol to assess gait balance and mobility is substantially equivalent to the TUG protocol. According to this embodiment the protocol is divided into 4 major components sit to stand turn to sit gait and turning. In this embodiment and without limitation the length of the normal TUG is extended from 3 meters to 7 meters to increase the total number of analyzable gait cycles. Other embodiments employ other protocols designed to help clinically assess gait balance and mobility.

Each subcomponent of the protocol is detected with a unique subset of sensors sit to stand and turn to sit transitions are detected and analyzed using the trunk sensor. Steps during gait and turns are detected using the two sensors on the shanks. Turns are detected using the trunk sensor. According to one embodiment the plurality of sensors includes wearable sensors are attached on the forearms shanks thighs and sternum. Wearable sensors may include accelerometers gyroscopes magnetometers optical sensors and goniometers. illustrates the placement of the inertial sensors according to one embodiment. To limit the number of recorded channels a different combination of accelerometers and gyroscopes can be used for each body site. As an example and without limitation a sensor with a 3D accelerometer 5 g and a 2D gyroscope 400 s yaw and pitch axes can be fixed on sternum. A 2D gyroscope 1200 s yaw and pitch axes can be attached on each forearm and a single axis gyroscope 600 s pitch axes can placed on each thigh and shanks. Other sensor configurations can be used including 3D inertial sensors with specification exceeding those listed herein. According to one embodiment the sensors include means for transmitting the kinematics data recorded to a storage and data processing server. For instance the sensors include an industry standard communication protocol such as Bluetooth ZigBEE WiFi or radio frequency communications.

According to one embodiment the iTUG system includes a plurality of statistical and signal processing algorithms to analyze said kinematics data and derive a plurality of metrics outcomes to objectively quantify movement disorders. These outcomes include sit to stands metrics gait metrics turning metrics and turn to sit metrics. Sit to stand metrics may include a Average and peak angular velocity of trunk in the sagittal plane in degrees per second . B Duration in seconds and range of motion of the trunk in the sagittal plane in degrees . Gait metrics include A Temporal parameters including Cadence number of steps per minute Stance as percentage of gait cycle time Double support as percentage of gait cycle time Limp i.e. difference between initial and terminal double support as a percentage of gait cycle time . B Performance of the lower limbs including Range of Motion ROM of shanks thighs as well as flexion extension of knee all in degrees stride length normalized to the stature stride velocity stride length divided by gait cycle time and peak angular velocity of shanks in degrees per second . C Performance of the upper limbs including arm swing in Pitch and Yaw axes in degrees peak angular velocity by combining Pitch and Yaw axes reported in degrees per second and its left right asymmetry difference of the left and right divided by the faster one reported as percentage . D Performance of the trunk including ROM in horizontal and sagittal planes as well as peak angular velocity in horizontal and sagittal planes. Turning metrics include A Duration of turns in seconds . B Peak angular velocity of the trunk in horizontal plane in degrees per seconds . C Number of steps average step time from heal strike to heal strike in seconds time for the longest step in seconds last step time right before turn in seconds and number steps of double steps i.e. successive steps with the same foot. Turn to sit metrics include A Turning metrics. B Range of motion of trunk in the sagittal plane in degrees . shows the components of the proposed iTUG protocol and representative raw signals from angular velocity of a shank and sternum according to one embodiment.

According to one embodiment a critical outcome for the assessment of movement disorders is based on the quantification of the onset and offset parameters during turning. A method for quantification of said onset and offset turning parameters involves 1 collecting data to directly or indirectly measure the angle of the trunk during turning 2 modeling said angle using a mathematical model and 3 using numerical optimization methods for fitting the model in the data in order to quantify said turning and determining said onset and offset turning parameters . Sensor placement includes anywhere on trunk including sternum. Metrics may include peak velocity mean velocity and ROM during turning.

According to one embodiment the analysis of turning is performed according to the following signal processing method designed to quantify the onset and offset of the turns. iTUG includes two 180 turns one after walking a predetermined distance e.g. 7 meters and a turn to sit transition. Unlike initial and terminal contacts in gait analysis onset and offset of turns are not time events marked by sudden distinct movements of the body or impacts with the floor but are rather a slow transition from one form of activity gait to another turn . Researches have defined onset and offset of turns by setting a fixed threshold on the trunk angular velocity in the yaw axis. However gait and transitions produce noticeable spurious signals in yaw angular velocity. As a result threshold based methods are sensitive to noise and will probably have low reliability especially with slow gait and turning speeds. This embodiment uses a mathematical model to find these transitions from straight to curved walking and back to straight walking or sitting at the end of TUG using an optimization method. To detect 180 turns the signal is analyzed from the yaw gyroscope on the sternum t as shown in . This raw signal shows large variations associated with shoulder girdle rotation during walking. As seen in the raw signal although it is relatively easy to identify when turns occurred in this signal due to marked peaks in yaw velocity amplitude it is difficult to see exactly where turns begin and end. After integrating t signal the relative trunk angle in the horizontal plane y t is obtained. Since the initial angle of the trunk at the beginning of recording is unknown a value of zero can be assumed. Thus y t indicates how much the trunk was turned to the left or right relative to the beginning of the test. As seen in walking components appear in y t as nearly flat lines with some variations due to yaw rotation oscillations of trunk. Turning components appear as positive or negative ramps depending on the direction of turns. Since the sensor attached on the trunk could have a small inclination relative to the horizontal plane due to anatomy of this part of the body differences in y t before and after turns could be smaller than 180 . According to one embodiment a continuous mathematical model is used to describe y t during the iTUG protocol 

While particular embodiments have been described it is understood that modifications and generalizations will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention.

The sections below describe an actual reduction to practice of one embodiment and the results obtained that demonstrate the embodiment performs its indented function and achieves superior sensitivity and repeatability results compared to prior art methods and apparatus.

Twelve patients with idiopathic Parkinson s disease and 12 control subjects participated in this study. The two groups were age matched 60.4 8.5 vs. 60.2 8.2 years old . There were seven males in the PD group and three males in the control group. Healthy control subjects were either spouses of the patients or recruited from the community. Patients were in early to moderate stage of disease H Y score between 1 and 2.5 UPDRS motor score 20.0 9.4 and have never taken anti Parkinsonian medications. Subjects were excluded if they had any neurological disorders other than PD orthopedic disorders or other impairments that could potentially interfere with gait or if they used orthotic devices or had artificial joints. All participants provided informed consent approved by the Oregon Health Sciences Institutional Review Board.

Subjects performed a Get up and go TUG test 3 times. They all used an armless chair and were instructed to not to use their arms to stand up. The beginning and end of a 7 meter pathway were clearly marked with 0.5 inch tape on the floor. These markings were shown to the subjects before the test. The end line was 3 meters away from the wall. Subjects were instructed to sit straight on the chair with their hands on their thighs and their backs touching the back of the chair After they were given the go signal from the tested they arose from the chair walked at their normal speed they turned around right after passing the tape at the end of the pathway returned back to the chair turned around and sat down. The tester timed their performance with a stop watch. All sessions were recorded on video to verify performance.

To assess test retest reliability of the measured parameters nine subjects in each group repeated the protocol a second time. After finishing the 3 iTUG tests sensors were removed from their body. After one hour the sensors were replaced and the protocol was repeated. We assumed that the subjects performance remained the same within this time period. The same examiner used the same device and same protocol to test the subject for the second time.

Subjects wore a small data logger in a waist worn pack with seven inertial sensors attached on the forearms shanks thighs and sternum. To limit the number of recorded channels a different combination of accelerometers and gyroscopes was used for each body site a sensor with a 3D accelerometer 5 g and a 2D gyroscope 400 s yaw and pitch axes was fixed on sternum with double stick tape. A 2D gyroscope 1200 s yaw and pitch axes was attached on each forearm and a single axis gyroscope 600 s pitch axes was placed on each thigh and shank with Velcro straps. Sampling rate was 200 Hz. The data was recorded on a 128 MB SD flash card.

The TUG was divided into 4 major components sit to stand turn to sit gait and turning. We extended the length of the normal TUG from 3 meters to 7 meters to increase the total number of analyzable gait cycles. Each subcomponent of the iTUG was detected with a unique subset of sensors sit to stand and turn to sit transitions were detected and analyzed using the trunk sensor. Steps during gait and turns were detected using the two sensors on the shanks Turns were detected using the trunk sensor and quantified using the novel method described herein.

The following outcomes were calculated for each subcomponent of iTUG. Sit to stands metrics A Average and peak angular velocity of trunk in the sagittal plane in degrees per second . B Duration in seconds and range of motion of the trunk in the sagittal plane in degrees .

Gait metrics A Temporal parameters including Cadence number of steps per minute Stance as percentage of gait cycle time Double support as percentage of gait cycle time Limp i.e. difference between initial and terminal double support as a percentage of gait cycle time . B Performance of the lower limbs including Range of Motion ROM of shanks thighs as well as flexion extension of knee all in degrees stride length normalized to the stature stride velocity stride length divided by gait cycle time and peak angular velocity of shanks in degrees per second . C Performance of the upper limbs including arm swing in Pitch and Yaw axes in degrees peak angular velocity by combining Pitch and Yaw axes reported in degrees per second and its left right asymmetry difference of the left and right divided by the faster one reported as percentage . D Performance of the trunk including ROM in horizontal and sagittal planes as well as peak angular velocity in horizontal and sagittal planes.

Turning metrics A Duration of turns in seconds . B Peak angular velocity of the trunk in horizontal plane in degrees per seconds . C Number of steps average step time from heal strike to heal strike in seconds time for the longest step in seconds last step time right before turn in seconds and number steps of double steps i.e. successive steps with the same foot. Turn to sit metrics A Turning metrics. B Range of motion of trunk in the sagittal plane in degrees .

1.6 Data Analysis Mean value of the straight walking gait metrics across all 3 trials were reported. The median of metrics of the transitions and turns in the 3 trials were reported to eliminate outliers.

To compare differences between the mild PD and control groups Wilcoxon s non parametric test rank sum was used. Since the tests for the metrics where pre planned the p values were not adjusted for multiple comparisons. To evaluate test retest reliability of the iTUG Intra Class Correlation ICC was used. Since the same subjects and same device was used for reliability an ICC 1 1 was used and p and 95 confidence intervals were reported.

The total time to perform the TUG was not significantly different between the early PD group and control group 15.4 0.6 vs. 14.3 0.5 seconds p 0.18 . After combining three repetitions of iTUG and removing gait cycles overlapping with turns and transitions there was no significant difference in number of gait cycles between groups the PD group had 15.6 3.5 gait cycles and the control group had 15.5 3.9 gait cycles p 0.95 . Table 1 shows a list of the outcome metrics. Despite the similarity of the total time to perform iTUG and the similar number of gait cycles between the two groups several parameters related to some components of iTUG namely gait turns and turn to sit showed significant differences between groups. The only component of iTUG that was not significantly different between the two groups was the sit to stand.

Temporal parameters of gait with the exception of limp showed an excellent reliability p 0.90 . Spatial parameters stride length and stride velocity showed somewhat lower but yet good reliability p 0.75 . Reliability of the estimated duration of turn and turn to sit transitions were also very high. Sit to stand parameters however did not show good test retest reliability. Table 2 summarized the test retest reliability results.

It is noteworthy that although we focused on 180 turns in this study the mathematical model can be used to analyze turning by 90 or any other value. In fact due to alignment of the sensor on the body turns were not exactly 180 thus as part of the fitting process the model measures the turning angle. We hypothesize that this approach can be used to analyze turns under various other conditions including unplanned free turns during continuous measurement of spontaneous activity.

Gait was the most reliable subcomponent of the test. Cadence was the most reliable metric p 0.94 . Stride length and stride velocity showed moderate to good reliability p 0.67 and 0.78 respectively . These findings are comparable to a recent studies. The reason that spatial parameters were less reliable than temporal might be due to the sensitivity of these measures to the alignment of the sensors on the body. There is a potential to improve the reliability of these parameters by improving the gait analysis method with 3D instead of 1 D gyroscopes. Limp i.e. difference between initial and terminal double support was the least reliable gait measure p 0.25 probably due to its very short duration 20 ms compared to the sampling period of the system 5 ms .

Duration of turns was the most reliable turning metric. The reason might be due to the fact that the turning model uses the whole signal including gait prior to and after the turn and is not particularly sensitive to local noise near onset and offset of turns. The least reliable measure related to turning was the number of double steps. The relatively mild PD subjects rarely took double steps and did not need to use double steps consistently in all trials. Healthy subjects never took double steps. Reliability of the turn to sit metrics were comparable to the turning metrics.

The sit to stand component was the least reliable part of the test. This finding is similar to the findings of a previous study looking at duration of the TUG test components. The poor reliability of the sit to stand metrics might be due to the large degrees of freedom available to subjects who can use a variety of strategies to perform this activity despite our efforts to limit this freedom by giving subjects explicit instructions on how to perform the test and using the same chair during all trials. Another reason for poor reliability might be due to our analysis method that relies on detection of peak angular velocity though we have used appropriate filters to minimize the effect of noise in peak identification.

Significant differences between the early PD and age matched control groups could be observed in three out of four components of the iTUG although the total time to perform the iTUG test was not sensitive enough to separate the groups performance Subjects with early PD had especially slow turning arm swing and cadence although they performed normally in other components including sit to stand and turn to sit.

While particular embodiments have been described it is understood that modifications and generalizations will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit of the invention. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that alternative actual reductions to practice and implementations of the proposed mobility assessment system iTUG are possible without departing from the spirit of the invention.

