---

title: Apparatuses, method and system for network performance metric statistics from traffic link data, identifying, violating network elements associated with threshold violation using visual cue
abstract: The APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A REAL-TIME MULTI-HOP ROUTE REPORTER (“REPORTER”) facilitates generation and provision of relevant and descriptive network performance reports that are efficient, economical and useful to executives, managers and other non-IT professionals and/or personnel. The REPORTER may be implemented as a multi-tiered web application that may collect, analyze and update database records which facilitate generation of the descriptive report. The REPORTER may include facilities for establishing correlations between various devices in the same network in order to evaluate and report the network performance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08356096&OS=08356096&RS=08356096
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08356096
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
Computer networks comprise a plurality of network devices or nodes connected via a communication medium. Examples of network devices include routers switches hubs modems bridges as well as interconnected computing systems called hosts. Some computer networks are what are known as packet switched networks. In packet switched networks discrete data blocks called packets originating from a source host are routed through a network.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

This disclosure details the implementation of APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A REAL TIME MULTI HOP ROUTE REPORTER hereinafter REPORTER . A traceroute utility shows the route taken by data packets from one host to another including all the intermediate nodes between the hosts in a traceroute report. Traceroute reports may be used by Information Technology IT professionals who wish to determine where a network bottleneck is at the time the report is generated. The value of a traceroute report that does not provide any description of its contents may be limited for a non IT professional e.g. a manager . Embodiments of the REPORTER may facilitate generation and provision of relevant and descriptive network performance reports that are efficient economical and useful to executives managers and other non IT professionals personnel. In one embodiment the REPORTER may establish correlations between various devices in the same network in order to evaluate and report the network performance. In a further embodiment the REPORTER may take the form of a customer accessible web application for requesting a real time multi hop route report hereinafter descriptive report . The customer may input target and or source host addresses and execute a single command instruction e.g. a mouse click a keyboard return a touch screen tap and or the like to generate a full blown descriptive report. The descriptive report may depict the multi hop route i.e. the hosts and intermediate nodes traversed by the trace data packets.

In one embodiment provides an overview of how the REPORTER may collect analyze and update database records which facilitate generation of the descriptive report . A plurality of customer network devices and e.g. routers switches IP phones and or the like may be operative in a customer network . In one implementation each customer network device may be associated with one or more network addresses such as an IP Internet Protocol address a MAC Media Access Control address and or the like. In one implementation a customer network may be a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN . In one implementation the REPORTER may comprise a polling device configured to scan and poll a list of network devices such as routers switches IP phones and or the like at regular intervals of time e.g. every 5 minutes . The polling device may be coupled with a polled interface data store which may store interface and or link traffic network data such as traffic volume traffic rate and or the like. In one implementation the REPORTER may also comprise a link bandwidth utilization calculator module configured for example to utilize the polled interface data from data store to calculate the minimum bandwidth required to sustain load accumulated within a month sliding window e.g. current month . In one implementation the bandwidth utilization calculator may be coupled with tables and or which may store the calculated bandwidth data.

In an alternate embodiment a new report request may be received at accompanied by the OS generated traceroute report. Each line of the received traceroute text may be parsed at . In one implementation each line of the received traceroute text may be parsed using scripting languages such as JavaScript ASP PHP and or the like. For example a single line of traceroute text may read as below 

A hop IP address list may be extracted from the parsed text at . The extracted hop IP addresses identify the IP address of each network device through which the sent data packets passed. For each extracted IP address at the Interface table may be queried for associated description record. Queries may be implemented using query languages such as Structured Query Language SQL QUEL Squery and or the like. In one embodiment querying the Interface table may provide descriptive data associated with an IP address including but not limited to router name e.g. hu1 ne rtr 1 interface description name e.g. Port channel3 interface description e.g. VZB WON43582 ICL to Houston AMDC2 hu1 ne rtr 1 and or the like. In one implementation a query for interface descriptive record based on IP address may be constructed as below 

In one embodiment a query to a Customer table for location of each hop may be initiated at . In one implementation the query may be based on the associated interface description record. In one implementation the query to the Customer table may yield information including but not limited to site location name e.g. AMDC1 geographical region e.g. Chicago Ill. United States of America type of service e.g. Voice over IP and or the like.

In one embodiment a Trend table may be accessed at to retrieve network performance metric statistics associated with each hop IP address. In one implementation the performance metrics stored in a Trend table may include but are not limited to bandwidth utilization in percentage e.g. Oct 4 Nov 6 number of frames discarded number of errors link availability per a fixed interval of time and or the like. In one implementation the retrieved interface customer and trend records for each hop IP address may be aggregated at . In one implementation a threshold may be associated with each performance metric. In a further implementation the threshold may be a default value may be set per an associated Service Level Agreement SLA set by the customer or administrator and or the like. At the associated thresholds for each performance metric may be retrieved from the Trend table. In one implementation a comparison between each metric trend value and the associated threshold may be made at . A determination may be made at whether any threshold was violated. If the trend value for each metric respected the associated threshold a descriptive report may be generated at a copy of which may be stored at and the report may be provided to the customer via the application client at . The customer using the Customer portal may conveniently download the report for viewing and or saving in a computer readable medium. In an alternate implementation if the trend value for one or more metric failed to respect the threshold set the disrespecting metric and the hop location may be identified for example by color coding formatting and or the like at . A descriptive report including the identified and color coded disrespecting metric and associated hop location may be generated at and made available for viewing and or downloading by the customer via the customer portal at . In one embodiment a copy of the color coded descriptive report may be stored in the archive database at .

Facilities of the REPORTER may be used in one implementation of deployment of an application program at a data center to be remotely accessed by employees. For a successful deployment the customer may carry out a complete study of all links between the server and the client machines subnet. Such a study may advise whether the deployment can continue or not. It may further advise as to which links in particular are problematic. The facilities of the REPORTER may in one implementation allow this type of study to be carried out and understood by a non IT personnel.

In one implementation the REPORTER may facilitate a customer request for a descriptive report from a source host that is not in the customer network or is at the time inaccessible. In such situations the REPORTER may query one or more databases to determine an interface closest to the customer specified source host. In a further implementation the REPORTER may access the closest interface device and call a traceroute tool from the device to a target host to generate a traceroute report.

In another implementation the REPORTER may be used in the area of internet telephony services such as Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP IP telephony facsimile and or the like. In one implementation non IT managers and Executives may make VoIP calls that may be of lesser quality than the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN . For example IP data packets may get lost or delayed in transit from a source phone to a destination phone. Non IT managers and Executives may use the services of the REPORTER to generate a traceroute from their workstations to a destination phone. In a further implementation the REPORTER may receive the generated traceroute to the destination phone and retrieve associated descriptive data and statistics from one or more tables and or databases to create a descriptive report. In one implementation the REPORTER may specifically identify links as bottlenecks where for example packet loss rate and or delay is above a predefined threshold.

Typically users which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the REPORTER controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network .

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The REPORTER controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effect communications operations storage etc. Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source . Optionally a cryptographic processor may be connected to the system bus. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the REPORTER controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed REPORTER mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the REPORTER may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the REPORTER some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the REPORTER component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the REPORTER may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example REPORTER features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the REPORTER features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the REPORTER system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the REPORTER may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate REPORTER controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the REPORTER.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the REPORTER thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the REPORTER controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed REPORTER architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the REPORTER controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices may be card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards mouse mice remote controls retina readers trackballs trackpads and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces and or the like. Peripheral devices may be audio devices cameras dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added functionality goggles microphones monitors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices video devices video sources visors and or the like.

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the REPORTER controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the REPORTER controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the REPORTER controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the REPORTER component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the REPORTER controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Nan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the REPORTER controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the REPORTER controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the REPORTER controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the REPORTER database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the REPORTER database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the REPORTER. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the REPORTER as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The function of computer interfaces in some respects is similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources functionality and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources functionality and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the REPORTER enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the REPORTER.

Access to the REPORTER mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POPS SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the REPORTER may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the REPORTER component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the REPORTER and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The REPORTER database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the REPORTER database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the REPORTER database is implemented as a data structure the use of the REPORTER database may be integrated into another component such as the REPORTER component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A Customer table includes fields such as but not limited to a customer ID router name site location name geographical region name service type name latitude co ordinates longitude co ordinates and or the like. The user table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a REPORTER. An Interface table includes fields such as but not limited to IP address MAC address customer ID router name interface descriptive name interface description time zone language last update date and or the like. A Trend table includes fields such as but not limited to IP address MAC address customer ID bandwidth utilization percent number of frames discarded number of errors link availability percent network speed and or the like. A Polldata table includes fields such as but not limited to IP address MAC address customer ID traffic volume traffic rate number of frames discarded number of errors link availability and or the like. An Archive table includes fields such as but not limited to customer ID user ID date ID  IP address MAC address descriptive report and or the like.

In one embodiment the REPORTER database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search REPORTER component may treat the combination of the REPORTER database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the REPORTER. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the REPORTER may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The REPORTER may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The REPORTER database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the REPORTER database communicates with the REPORTER component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The REPORTER component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the REPORTER component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the REPORTER that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the REPORTER affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The REPORTER component enables the aggregation processing evaluation and presentation of network traffic data and or the like and use of the REPORTER.

The REPORTER component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the REPORTER server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The REPORTER component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the REPORTER component communicates with the REPORTER database operating systems other program components and or the like. The REPORTER may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the REPORTER node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the REPORTER controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA local and remote application program interfaces Jini Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using standard development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing functionality which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components. For example a grammar may be arranged to recognize the tokens of an HTTP post command e.g. 

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. the SOAP parser that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment. The following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

In order to address various issues and improve over previous works the application is directed to APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR A REAL TIME MULTI HOP ROUTE REPORTER. The entirety of this application including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed inventions. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a REPORTER individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the REPORTER may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. For example aspects of the REPORTER may be adapted for evaluating networks and managing deployment of applications to servers. While various embodiments and discussions of the REPORTER have been directed to generation and provision of descriptive network report however it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide variety of other applications and or implementations.

