---

title: Mobile-based real-time food-and-beverage recommendation system
abstract: Particular embodiments extract a plurality of users, a plurality of establishments, and a plurality of items from dining information provided by at least one of the plurality of users, each of the plurality of establishments sells food or beverage; construct a user-establishment matrix, a user-item matrix, and an establishment-item matrix using the plurality of users, the plurality of establishments, and the plurality of items; generate a user latent representation for the plurality of users, an establishment latent representation for the plurality of establishments, and an item latent representation for the plurality of items; and compute one or more correlations using the user latent representation, the establishment latent representation, or the item latent representation, wherein each of the one or more correlations is between two users, two establishments, two items, one user and one establishment, one of user and one item, or one establishment and one item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429027&OS=08429027&RS=08429027
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08429027
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101108
---
The present disclosure generally relates to a product and or service recommendation system and more specifically relates to recommending food and or beverages to consumers in real time via mobile devices.

Consumers often receive recommendations on products and or services from various sources such as merchants experts advertisers friends families etc. Such recommendations may be provided to the consumers at any time but usually when the consumers express interest in certain types of products or services. Sometimes the recommended products or services are determined based on what specific products or services the other consumers who are also interested in similar types of products or services have purchased in the past. For example when a consumer purchases a book from amazon.com an Internet based merchant that sells various types of products amazon.com may recommend to the consumer other books that have been purchased by other consumers who have also purchased in the past the same book that is currently being purchased by the consumer. As another example when a consumer wants to purchase a digital camera he may ask his friends what brands and models of digital cameras they have purchased and make a selection based on his friends recommendations.

The present disclosure generally relates to a product and or service recommendation system and more specifically relates to recommending food and or beverages to consumers in real time via mobile devices.

In particular embodiments a food and beverage recommendation system may recommend food and or beverages to consumers in real time and via their mobile devices. In particular embodiments the consumers are the users of the food and beverage recommendation system. In particular embodiments when the users dine out they may provide information on the establishments at where they have dined and the food and or beverages they have ordered to the food and beverage recommendation system. The food and beverage recommendation system may process the information to determine recommendations for food and or beverages with respect to specific establishments and or specific users. In particular embodiments the food and or beverage recommendations may be provided to the individual users when they are dining at specific establishments.

In particular embodiments a food and beverage recommendation system extracts a plurality of users a plurality of establishments and a plurality of items from dining information provided by at least one of the plurality of users. Each of the plurality of establishments sells food or beverage and has been visited by at least one of the plurality of users. Each of the plurality of items is food or beverage sold at least one of the plurality of establishments and has been ordered by at least one of the plurality of users at least one of the plurality of establishments. The food and beverage recommendation system constructs a user establishment matrix a user item matrix and an establishment item matrix using the plurality of users the plurality of establishments and the plurality of items generates a user latent representation for the plurality of users an establishment latent representation for the plurality of establishments and an item latent representation for the plurality of items and computes one or more correlations using the user latent representation the establishment latent representation or the item latent representation wherein each of the one or more correlations is between two of the plurality of users two of the plurality of establishments two of the plurality of items one of the plurality of users and one of the plurality of establishments one of the plurality of users and one of the plurality of items or one of the plurality of establishments and one of the plurality of items.

In particular embodiments the food and beverage recommendation system receives a recommendation request from a mobile device associated a first one of the plurality of users at a first one of the plurality of establishment determines one or more item recommendations with respect to the first user and the first establishment using the plurality of user user correlations the plurality of establishment establishment correlations the plurality of item item correlations the plurality of user establishment correlations the plurality of user item correlations and the plurality of establishment item correlations and transmits the one or more item recommendations to the mobile device.

These and other features aspects and advantages of the disclosure are described in more detail below in the detailed description and in conjunction with the following figures.

The present disclosure is now described in detail with reference to a few embodiments thereof as illustrated in the accompanying drawings. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. However the present disclosure may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps and or structures have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the present disclosure. In addition while the disclosure is described in conjunction with the particular embodiments it should be understood that this description is not intended to limit the disclosure to the described embodiments. To the contrary the description is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents as may be included within the spirit and scope of the disclosure as defined by the appended claims.

There are various Internet based resources e.g. Yelp at www.yelp.com and Yahoo Local at local.yahoo.com that provide their users with reviews and recommendations on business establishments such as restaurants fast food stores beverage houses etc. The recommendations are often determined based on the available user reviews. For example an establishment that has received good reviews from some users may be recommended to other users. However the quality of such recommendations suffer from a lack of a sufficient number of reviews provided by a sufficient number of users to a sufficient number of establishments. In the first place not many people are willing to spend the time and effort to write reviews. Moreover for those people who do write reviews usually each person is able to write only a few reviews to a few establishments. As a result only a limited number of establishments e.g. famous popular or large establishments have received user reviews and among these each establishment only has a limited number of user reviews. Consequently the quality of the recommendations is limited by the small number of user reviews provided to the small number of establishments. In addition since these reviews are provided to the individual establishments the recommendations are at establishment level as well i.e. recommending the individual establishments instead of the individual food and or beverage items sold at the establishments .

To improve the quality of recommendations on the business establishments and the items sold at these establishments particular embodiments extract a set of users a set of establishments and a set of items from dining information provided by the users. Particular embodiments construct a user establishment matrix a user item matrix and an establishment item matrix using the set of users the set of establishments and the set of items. Particular embodiments generate a user latent representation for the set of users an establishment latent representation for the set of establishments and an item latent representation for the set of items. Particular embodiments compute a set of user user correlations a set of establishment establishment correlations a set of item item correlations a set of user establishment correlations a set of user item correlations and a set of establishment item correlations using the user latent representation the establishment latent representation and the item latent representation. Particular embodiments make real time recommendations on the individual items sold at the individual establishments to the individual users while they are at those establishments.

In particular embodiments an establishment refers to a business establishment that sells food and or beverages such as for example and without limitation restaurants fast food stores candy stores delicatessens cafeterias caf s eateries bakeries beverage houses bars etc. In particular embodiments an item refers to a food or beverage item sold at an establishment. In particular embodiments an item may be any item listed on the menu of an establishment such as for example and without limitation appetizers salads soups main courses side dishes desserts sodas cocktails wines etc.

In particular embodiments when a user dines at an establishment e.g. a restaurant the user may transmit dining information to food and beverage recommendation system using his mobile device . Similarly the user may request and receive food and or beverage recommendations from food and beverage recommendation system using his mobile device . Note that a user may both provide dining information to and receive food and or beverage recommendations from food and beverage recommendation system provide dining information to food and beverage recommendation system without receiving any recommendations or request and receive food and or beverage recommendations from food and beverage recommendation system without providing any information.

In particular embodiments a person needs to become a registered user of food and beverage recommendation system before he can use the services provided by food and beverage recommendation system . In particular embodiments each registered user of food and beverage recommendation system has a user identifier that uniquely identifies that user. Optionally each registered user of food and beverage recommendation system may have a password associated with his unique user identifier so that the user may access food and beverage recommendation system securely.

In particular embodiments each registered user of food and beverage recommendation system has a user profile that includes information concerning the user such as for example and without limitation the user s demographic information e.g. address gender age family status work status etc. the mobile device e.g. mobile device associated with the user the user s culinary preferences e.g. favorite restaurants food beverages etc. and other features. In particular embodiments the mobile device associated with each registered user of food and beverage recommendation system may have a mobile device identifier that uniquely identifies that mobile device and the mobile device identifier may be included in the user profile of the user associated with that mobile device. For example a mobile device may be identified by the unique telephone number assigned to it or its unique serial number.

In particular embodiments the dining information may include the establishments the users have visited and the food and or beverage items the users have ordered at the individual establishments. Optionally the dining information may include for example and without limitations the type e.g. restaurant caf beverage house bar etc. food category e.g. seafood barbecue steak house vegetarian etc. ethnicity e.g. Cajun food Italian food French food Chinese food Mediterranean food location e.g. city and state zip code latitude and longitude or user rating e.g. a numeric score of each establishment. The dining information may also include for example and without limitations the type e.g. drink appetizer side dish bread main course dessert etc. price or user rating e.g. a numeric score of each food or beverage item. Any information concerning an establishment or a food or beverage item may be considered dining information and provided to the food and beverage recommendation system.

There are various methods for a user to provide dining information to the food and beverage recommendation system and the present disclosure contemplates any suitable method. In particular embodiments a user may provide dining information in text format. The user may manually input the dining information as texts e.g. the name of an establishment and the name price and user rating of each food or beverage item ordered at the establishment into his mobile device and transmit the texts to the food and beverage recommendation system. The food and beverage recommendation system may process the texts to extract the appropriate dining information.

In particular embodiments a user may provide dining information as digital images. If the user s mobile device has a built in digital camera the user may take digital photos of the individual food and or beverage items ordered at an establishment perhaps with the permission of the establishment . The user may transmit the digital photos e.g. the digital photos stored as image files to the food and beverage recommendation system. The food and beverage recommendation system may apply various image processing and recognition techniques to automatically determine individual food and or beverage items from the digital photos.

Often a digital photo has associated metadata one of which may be the geographic location e.g. represented as latitude and longitude where the digital photo is taken. In particular embodiments the food and beverage recommendation system may use the geographic location metadata of a digital photo to automatically determine the location and consequently the establishment itself where the photo is taken. In this case it is not necessary for the user to provide information e.g. the name of the establishment where the user has visited separately. The establishment where the user has ordered the food or beverage item in the digital photo may be automatically determined from the metadata e.g. the geographic location metadata of the digital photo.

If the user takes a digital photo of a food or beverage item in an establishment and transmits that digital photo to the food and beverage recommendation system while the user is still at the establishment in particular embodiments the food and beverage recommendation system may use the signal from the mobile device used by the user to determine the location from where the digital photo is transmitted. This location is in fact the location of the establishment. The location information may then be compared for example with information in a database to determine the establishment that the user has visited. Again in this case it is not necessary for the user to provide information of the establishment where the user has visited separately. The establishment where the user has ordered the food or beverage item in the digital photo may be automatically determined from the mobile device s communication signals.

In order to more accurately identify the food or beverage item in each digital photo in particular embodiments the food and beverage recommendation system may collect from various establishments digital images of individual food and or beverage items and store these digital images in a database associated with the food and beverage recommendation system together with some form of identifiers indicating what specific food and or beverage items they are. Then when the food and beverage recommendation system receives a digital photo from a user s mobile device in additional to applying image recognition techniques the food and beverage recommendation system may compare the user s digital photo with the digital images stored in the database. If an digital image similar to the user s digital photo is found in the database that similar digital image may be used to help identify the food or beverage item in the user s digital photo.

In particular embodiments a user may take a digital photo of a dining bill from an establishment. A dining bill typically includes each food or beverage item the user has ordered at the establishment and its price. In addition a dining bill often includes information about the establishment itself e.g. the name and telephone number of the establishment . The user may transmit the digital image e.g. the digital photo saved as an image file of the dining bill to the food and beverage recommendation system. The food and beverage recommendation system may apply various image processing and recognition techniques to automatically determine the individual food and or beverage items their prices as well as the establishment itself from the digital image of the dining bill.

If a user s mobile device has a built in digital scanner the user may scan a dining bill as either a digital image or as texts and transmit the digital image or texts to the food and beverage recommendation system. If the dining bill is scanned as a digital image the food and beverage recommendation system may apply various image processing and recognition techniques to automatically determine the individual food and or beverage items their prices as well as the establishment itself from the digital image of the dining bill. If the dinning bill is scanned as texts the food and beverage recommendation system may parse the texts to extract the establishment as well as the individual food and or beverage items and their prices.

In particular embodiments a user may provide dining information as digital recordings. If the user s mobile device has a built in digital recorder the user may record his conversation with a service personnel e.g. a waiter or waitress as the user orders food and or beverages at an establishment perhaps with the permission of the service personnel . The user may transmit the digital recording e.g. the digital recording stored as an audio file to the food and beverage recommendation system. The food and beverage recommendation system may apply various voice processing and speech recognition techniques to automatically determine the individual food and or beverage items ordered by the user from the digital recording.

In particular embodiments a user may provide dining information as bar codes. In order to more accurately and conveniently identify the individual establishments and the individual food or beverage items in particular embodiments a unique bar code may be attached to each item on the menu of each establishment or to other suitable places. The corresponding information may be stored in a database associated with the food and beverage recommendation system. If a user s mobile device has a built in bar code scanner the user may scan the bar codes corresponding to the specific food and or beverage items he has ordered at an establishment and transmits the bar codes to the food and beverage recommendation system. The food and beverage recommendation system may process the bar codes to determine which specific establishment the user has visited and which specific food and or beverage items the user has ordered at that establishment based on the information stored in the database.

The food and beverage recommendation system may support any combination of the various methods that enable its users to provide dining information to it. In particular embodiments over some period of time the food and beverage recommendation system may receive and collect dining information from many users visiting many establishments and ordering many food and or beverage items. Particular embodiments may mine the dining information collected from the users over some period of time by conducting tri partite graph mining or tensor factorization for the purpose of determining food and or beverage recommendations for the individual users. In particular embodiments the purposes of mining the dining information are to profile each user with his favorite food and or beverage items or favorite food and or beverage types and his authority score distribution on the food and or beverage items or types and profile each establishment with its strength distribution on the food and or beverage items or types it offers.

In particular embodiments each time a user provides dining information to the food and beverage recommendation system particular embodiments may extract a set of tuples from the dining information where each tuple includes a user an establishment and an item either food or beverage as illustrated in STEP . For example suppose John Smith who is a registered user of the food and beverage recommendation system has visited a Chili s Restaurant and ordered a club sandwich and an iced tea for lunch. When John Smith transmits information about his lunch to the food and beverage recommendation system the food and beverage recommendation system may extract two tuples from John Smith s dinning information . Since each user uses his mobile device to transmit the dining information upon receiving a transmission of the dining information from a specific mobile device particular embodiments may match the identifier of the mobile device to the identifiers of the mobile devices in the user profiles to determine to which user this mobile device belongs. That user is then matched with the establishment and the food and or beverage items in the dining information.

In particular embodiments each user may be identified by its user identifier. Similarly each establishment may be identified by a unique establishment identifier and each food or beverage item may be identified by a unique item identifier. In particular embodiments there is a set of users a set of establishments and a set of food or beverage items. For clarity purposes hereafter let U represent a set of n1 users E represent a set of n2 establishments and I represent a set of n3 food or beverage items where n1 n2 and n3 are integers and n1 1 n2 1 and n3 1. Note that the number of elements and the actual elements in each of the user establishment and item sets may change from time to time.

Particular embodiments may construct a user establishment matrix a user item matrix and an establishment item matrix from the tuples extracted from the dining information provided by the users over time as illustrated in STEP . Hereafter let Mdenote the user establishment matrix Mdenote the user item matrix and Mdenote the establishment item matrix.

In particular embodiments user establishment matrix Mis a n2 n1 integer matrix. Each entry mrepresents the number of times a corresponding user u has visited a corresponding establishment e. In particular embodiments the numbers may be determined from the tuples.

The following TABLE 1 illustrates an example user establishment matrix M. For example TABLE 1 indicates that user uhas visited establishment ethree times establishment etwelve times but has never visited establishment e. Similarly user uhas visited establishment e but has never visited establishments e eand e. In particular embodiments it is possible that a user from user set U has never provided dining information with respect to any establishment from establishment set E. In this case all entries in user establishment matrix Mcorresponding to this user may be 0.

In particular embodiments user item matrix Mis a n3 n1 integer matrix. Each entry mrepresents the number of times a corresponding user u has ordered a corresponding food or beverage item i. In particular embodiments the same food or beverage item may be offered at multiple establishments and a user may order a specific food or beverage item at any establishment. In particular embodiments the numbers may be determined from the tuples.

The following TABLE 2 illustrates an example user item matrix M. For example TABLE 2 indicates that user uhas ordered item ifour times but has never ordered item i. Similarly user uhas ordered item ieight times but has never ordered item i. In particular embodiments it is possible that a user from user set U has never provided dining information concerning any item from item set I. In this case all entries in user item matrix Mcorresponding to this user may be 0.

In particular embodiments establishment item matrix Mis a n3 n2 binary or Boolean matrix. Each entry mrepresents whether a corresponding establishment e offers a corresponding food or beverage item i. For example the value 1 may indicate that an establishment offers an item and a value 0 may indicate that an establishment does not offer an item. In particular embodiments the same food or beverage item may be offered at multiple establishments. For example multiple restaurants may offer club sandwich spaghetti with meat balls iced tea or tiramisu. In particular embodiments the values may be determined from the tuples.

The following TABLE 3 illustrates an example establishment item matrix M. For example TABLE 3 indicates that establishment eoffers item i but does not offer items i i and i. Similarly establishment eoffers items iand i but has never ordered item iand i. In particular embodiments it is possible that an item from item set I is not offered by any establishment from establishment set E. In this case all entries in establishment item matrix Mcorresponding to this item may be 0.

Particular embodiments may generate a user latent representation for the set of users an establishment latent representation for the set of establishment and an item latent representation for the set of items using user establishment matrix M user item matrix M and establishment item matrix M as illustrated in STEP . In particular embodiments the user latent representation is the representation of the set of users U in a latent user space the establishment latent representation is the representation of the set of establishments E in a latent establishment space and item latent representation is the representation of the set of items I in a latent item space.

Particular embodiments may generate the three types of latent representations by optimizing the following loss function using stochastic gradient descent l M UWE 1l M E WI 2l M UWI 1 U 2 E 3 I . 1 

In EQUATION 1 l may be any loss function such as for example and without limitation mean squared error etc. Uis a d1 n1 matrix representing the n1 users in the latent d1 dimensional user space where d1 1 Eis a d2 n2 matrix representing the n2 establishments in the latent d2 dimensional establishment space where d2 1 E is the transpose matrix of E and Iis a d3 n3 matrix representing the n3 food and or beverage items in the latent d3 dimensional item space where d3 1. Wis a d1 d2 convariance matrix for user and establishment Wis a d2 d3 convariance matrix for establishment and item and Wis a d1 d3 convariance matrix for user and item. U is the p norm regularization for U E is the p norm regularization for E and I is the p norm regularization for I. 1 2 1 2 and 3 are real value parameters that may be empirically tuned.

In particular embodiments the outputs of EQUATION 1 are U E I W W and W. Based on these six matrices particular embodiments may user user correlations establishment establishment correlations item item correlations user establishment correlations user item correlations and establishment item correlations as illustrated in STEP . Particular embodiments may profile each user and each establishment based on these correlations.

In particular embodiments the user user correlations indicate how similar one user is to another user in terms of their food and or beverage preferences e.g. flavor taste cuisine type etc. . In particular embodiments for any user u U his d dimensional latent vector right arrow over U is the jrow in matrix U. For any two users u U and u U their correlation or similarity in terms of food and or beverage preferences may be computed as . 2 

In particular embodiments the establishment establishment correlations indicate how similar one establishment is to another establishment in terms of the food and or beverages they offer e.g. flavor taste cuisine type etc. . In particular embodiments for any establishment e E its d2 dimensional latent vector right arrow over E is the jrow in matrix E. For any two establishments e E and e E their correlation or similarity in terms of food and or beverages they offer may be computed as . 3 

In particular embodiments the item item correlations indicate how similar one food or beverage item is to another item in terms of their flavor type category taste presentation etc. In particular embodiments for any item i I its d3 dimensional latent vector right arrow over I is the jrow in matrix I. For any two items i I and i I their correlation or similarity in terms of flavor taste type category etc. may be computed as . 4 

In particular embodiments the user establishment correlations indicate how well a user likes an establishment. In particular embodiments for any user establishment pair u U and e E their correlation may be computed as . 5 

In particular embodiments the user item correlations indicate how well a user likes a food or beverage item. In particular embodiments for any user item pair u U and i I their correlation may be computed as . 6 

In particular embodiments the establishment item correlations indicate how good a food or beverage item offered by an establishment is. In particular embodiments for any establishment item pair e E and i I their correlation may be computed as . 7 

In particular embodiments there may be any number of features or attributes associated with each user each establishment and each food or beverage item. For example the features associated with each user may include without limitation the user s preferred ingredients spices food types or beverage types whether the user is vegetarian concerned about presentation environment service quality or availability of entertainment etc. The features associated with each establishment may include without limitation the cuisine ethnicity or type of the establishment e.g. Chinese food Italian food seafood barbecue vegetarian food pizza etc. average price per entry environment popularity etc. The features associated with each item may include without limitation the item s flavor e.g. spicy or mild ingredients price popularity etc.

Suppose there are f1 user features f2 establishment features and f3 establishment features where f1 1 f2 1 and f3 1. Particular embodiments may optionally construct a user feature matrix M an establishment feature matrix M and an item feature matrix M. In particular embodiments Mis a f1 n1 matrix and each entry in Mmay have a value 1 or a value 0 indicating a corresponding user does or does not have a corresponding user feature respectively. Mis a f2 n2 matrix and each entry in Mmay have a value 1 or a value 0 indicating a corresponding establishment does or does not have a corresponding establishment feature respectively. Mis a f3 n3 matrix and each entry in Mmay have a value 1 or a value 0 indicating a corresponding item does or does not have a corresponding item feature respectively.

If matrices M M and Mare available particular embodiments may incorporate them in EQUATION 1 . Consequently EQUATION 1 may be modified as the following 

In EQUATION 8 Zis a f1 d1 matrix projecting a f1 dimensional user feature vector to a d1 dimensional user latent vector Zis a f2 d2 matrix projecting a f2 dimensional establishment feature vector to a d2 dimensional establishment latent vector and Zis a f3 d3 matrix projecting a f3 dimensional item feature vector to a d3 dimensional item latent vector. The outputs of EQUATION 8 are again U E I W W and W which may be used to determine various types of correlations as described above.

Particular embodiments may make real time food and or beverage item recommendations to individual users when the users are at specific establishments using the user user establishment establishment item item user establishment user item and establishment item correlations as illustrated in STEP . In particular embodiments suppose a user u U is visiting an establishment e E. Before placing an order user umay wish to receive recommendations on food and or beverage items offered by establishment e. In particular embodiments user umay send a request to the food and beverage recommendation system via his mobile device. In response to this request the food and beverage recommendation system may determine which establishment user uis currently visiting. User umay specify the establishment he is currently visiting in the request. Alternatively the food and beverage recommendation system may determine the establishment user uis currently visiting using the signals received from the mobile device of user u. In particular embodiments the food and beverage recommendation system determines recommendations on the food and or beverage items offered at establishment especifically for user uusing the user user establishment establishment item item user establishment user item and establishment item correlations. The recommendations may be transmitted to the mobile device of user u.

In particular embodiments a food and beverage recommendation system may continuously receive and collect dining information from its users and make food and or beverage recommendations to its users. As additional dining information is collected STEPS of may be performed from time to time or as needed to obtain updated matrices U E I W W and W which may then be used to determine recommendations for specific users visiting specific establishments.

In addition new people may become registered users of the food and beverage recommendation system be added to user set U conversely existing users may be removed from user set U if they no longer desire to receive the services provided by the food and beverage recommendation system. Similarly new establishments may be added to establishment set E and existing establishments may be removed from establishment set E. New food and or beverage items may be added to item set I and existing items may be removed from item set I. As these changes occur STEPS of may be performed as needed to obtain updated matrices U E I W W and W.

In particular embodiments the users of a food and beverage recommendation system may belong to a social network. A social network in general is a social structure made up of entities such as individuals or organizations that are connected by one or more types of interdependency or relationships such as friendship kinship common interest financial exchange dislike or relationships of beliefs knowledge or prestige. In more recent years social networks have taken advantage of the Internet. There are social networking systems existing on the Internet in form of social networking websites. Such social networking websites enable their members who are commonly referred to as website users to perform various social activities. For example the social networking website operated by Facebook Inc. at www.facebook.com enables its users to communicate with their friends via emails instant messages or blog postings organize social events share photos receive news of their friends or interesting events play games etc.

Particular embodiments may be implemented in a network environment. illustrates an example network environment . Network environment includes a network coupling one or more servers and one or more clients to each other. In particular embodiments network is an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another network or a combination of two or more such networks . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable network .

One or more links couple servers or clients to network . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes one or more wired wireless or optical links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable links coupling servers and clients to network .

In particular embodiments each server may be a unitary server or may be a distributed server spanning multiple computers or multiple datacenters. Servers may be of various types such as for example and without limitation web server news server mail server message server advertising server file server application server exchange server database server or proxy server. In particular embodiments each server may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by server . For example a web server is generally capable of hosting websites containing web pages or particular elements of web pages. More specifically a web server may host HTML files or other file types or may dynamically create or constitute files upon a request and communicate them to clients in response to HTTP or other requests from clients . A mail server is generally capable of providing electronic mail services to various clients . A database server is generally capable of providing an interface for managing data stored in one or more data stores.

In particular embodiments each client may be an electronic device including hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components and capable of carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by client . For example and without limitation a client may be a desktop computer system a notebook computer system a netbook computer system a handheld electronic device or a mobile telephone. A client may enable a network user at client to access network . A client may have a web browser such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Mozilla Firefox and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as Google Toolbar or Yahoo Toolbar. A client may enable its user to communicate with other users at other clients . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable clients .

In particular embodiments one or more data storages may be communicatively linked to one or more servers via one or more links . In particular embodiments data storages may be used to store various types of information. In particular embodiments the information stored in data storages may be organized according to specific data structures. Particular embodiments may provide interfaces that enable servers or clients to manage e.g. retrieve modify add or delete the information stored in data storage .

In particular embodiments a server may include a food and beverage recommendation system . Food and beverage recommendation system may include hardware software or embedded logic components or a combination of two or more such components for carrying out the appropriate functionalities implemented or supported by food and beverage recommendation system . In particular embodiments food and beverage recommendation system may implement the functionalities illustrated in .

Particular embodiments may be implemented on one or more computer systems. illustrates an example computer system . In particular embodiments one or more computer systems perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments software running on one or more computer systems performs one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein. Particular embodiments include one or more portions of one or more computer systems .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. The present disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. The present disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

The present disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend.

