---

title: Modular digital video recorder storage
abstract: Modular storage functionality is provided for a digital video recorder (DVR), which may be configured in such a way as to limit a user's access to the whole storage capacity, and wherein a user may choose to increase or decrease the amount of accessible storage capacity of the internal storage medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08385722&OS=08385722&RS=08385722
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08385722
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100827
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 238 393 filed Aug. 31 2009 entitled Modular DVR which is hereby incorporated by reference.

A video recorder computing device such as a digital video recorder DVR or personal video recorder PVR is a device that may be utilized to digitally record and save media signals in a digital format to a storage medium. When connected to a cable or satellite line a user may utilize a video recorder computing device to record movies and or television programs in real time. Many service providers provide service subscribers with a set top box having integrated digital video recording capabilities. A video recorder computing device may be a standalone unit or may be an integrated receiver that functions as a digital cable or satellite receiver and a video recorder computing device. Digital video recording may also be network based wherein programming may be recorded and stored in a service provider network and accessed by a user via a network connected device. Some recorder computing devices may be controlled remotely using an application run on a remote communication device. The term DVR as it is used in this specification includes integrated video recorder computing set top boxes stand alone video recorder computing units network digital video recorders a recorder associated with a network connected video receiving device remote storage digital video recorders and the like. Many DVRs utilize a hard disk recorder HDR to record to a hard disk drive. Various DVRs have a variety of hard disk drive storage capacities. For example recording at a basic quality level a DVR with a forty 40 gigabyte hard disk drive capacity may be able to record approximately forty 40 hours of programming. The more programming a user wants to record the more storage capacity he she needs. Video files can be very large and high definition videos may be even larger which requires more hard disk drive space. Oftentimes DVR users manage to fill their device s hard disk drive to capacity. When a DVR s hard disk drive has been filled to capacity many DVRs allow for overwriting of old programs in order to make room for new recordings which means that either DVR users eventually lose the shows they have recorded or they may have to stop recording new shows.

As technology advances hard disk drives with more storage capacity than hard disk drives in DVRs produced just a few years ago may become readily available and offered at competitive prices. Oftentimes service providers lease DVR equipment to customers and customers may pay for a monthly DVR service. While being able to offer the latest DVR equipment with greater storage capacity to customers may have many benefits it can also present various customer service issues. For example customer A and customer B may both subscribe to cable television services and also pay an additional amount for DVR services. Customer A may have acquired his her DVR unit two years previous to customer B. While customer A and B both pay the same amount for their services customer A s DVR unit may have half the hard disk drive storage capacity as customer B s. Customer A may have to sacrifice recording certain programming or may have to delete programming that he she would prefer to keep because of limited hard disk drive capacity. Customer A may become a dissatisfied customer if he she becomes aware that he she is paying the same amount as customer B for DVR service but customer B has upgraded equipment with more storage capacity. As higher capacity hard disk drives are deployed in the future more discrepancies in DVR equipment may arise.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing modular storage functionality for a digital video recorder DVR . A modular storage medium may be configured to allow for specified amounts of storage space to be accessible to a user for recording content. Modular storage may include various types of storage media including but not limited to a hard disk drive HDD a CD ROM a DVD ROM flash memory and a USB data card. As technology advances more storage capacities may be offered in newer DVR units and services. Since many service providers lease DVR equipment to customers who subscribe to DVR service newer customers may be provided with superior DVR equipment with larger storage capacities but may be paying the same amount for DVR services as other customers with older DVR equipment with less storage capacities. In an effort to provide fairer service to customers embodiments of the present invention provide for storage associated with a DVR to be partitioned to allow for various accessible storage capacities. By provisioning a specified amount of storage per a specified monetary amount integrated into a customer s DVR service fee cable and satellite service providers may have the ability to provide fairer DVR service in which a customer pays for the level of storage capacity desired.

The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that the following detailed description is explanatory only and is not restrictive of the invention as claimed.

As briefly described above embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing modular storage functionality for a digital video recorder DVR which may be configured in such a way as to limit a user s access to the whole storage capacity and wherein a user may choose to increase or decrease an amount of accessible storage capacity associated with a DVR.

Service providers may provide DVR service to customers and oftentimes lease DVR equipment to their customers. According to embodiments a DVR may comprise a HDD or other storage medium with which content may be recorded and stored. According to an embodiment DVR functionality may be network based wherein programming may be recorded and stored in a service provider network and accessed via a network connected device such as a set top box. A user may select content saved on a storage device to playback when the user finds it convenient to do so. As should be appreciated various DVRs may have various storage capacities. Depending on the storage capacity the amount of content a user can record and save varies. For example a DVR comprising a forty 40 gigabyte HDD may be able to save up to forty 40 hours of basic quality content. When recording in high definition a DVR s storage device can fill up quickly. When a user s storage device is full he she may have to delete data to record more programs or cancel future recordings to keep saved data. As should be appreciated a DVR with a larger storage capacity is typically preferred.

As technology advances and increases in disk space and data access speeds are made available newer DVRs may have much more storage capacity than DVRs manufactured even just a year ago. While being able to offer DVRs with higher storage capacities to customers can be a benefit for service providers a need may arise to make it more fair to DVR customers so that one customer is not paying the same amount for DVR service as another customer who may have a DVR capable of more data storage and thus receiving a superior service. Embodiments of the present invention provide for a storage device of a DVR to be partitioned to allow for various storage capacities. When a DVR is provisioned to a customer a default configuration may be set so that a storage device of a DVR may be partially locked and a specified amount of storage capacity may be available to the customer. If a customer wishes to have additional accessible storage capacity he she may upgrade his her service to allow for additional accessible storage capacity.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers are used in the drawing and the following description to refer to the same or similar elements. While embodiments of the invention may be described modifications adaptations and other implementations are possible. For example substitutions additions or modifications may be made to the elements illustrated in the drawings and the methods described herein may be modified by substituting reordering or adding stages to the disclosed methods. Accordingly the following detailed description does not limit the invention but instead the proper scope of the invention is defined by the appended claims.

The following describes a simplified block diagram illustrating a cable television services system hereafter referred to as CATV architecture that serves as one exemplary operating environment for the present invention. Referring now to digital and analog video programming information content and interactive television services are provided via a hybrid fiber coax HFC network to a television set for consumption by a cable television services system customer. As is known to those skilled in the art HFC networks combine both optical fiber and coaxial cable lines. Typically optical fiber runs from the cable head end to neighborhoods of 500 to 2 000 customers. Coaxial cable runs from the optical fiber feeders to each customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the functionality of the HFC network allows for efficient bidirectional data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server of the present invention.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side backend head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modern CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. A STB may be integrated with a display device such as a television or may be a separate unit. A digital video recorder DVR may be integrated into a STB or may be a discrete unit. The term DVR as it is used in this specification includes integrated video recorder computing set top boxes stand alone video recorder computing units network digital video recorders a recorder associated with a network connected video receiving device remote storage digital video recorders and the like. A DVR may be described as an electronic device having a storage medium capable of storing media signals in a digital format. The storage medium is commonly a non volatile storage device such as a hard disk drive but may include other types of storage media including but not limited to CD RW CD W USB drives memory sticks or cards etc. The size capacity of the storage medium is a determining factor of how much data can be recorded. A STB may comprise a DVR application which may enable DVR functionality to capture record and play back content from a storage medium. Alternatively DVR services may be network based wherein programming may be recorded and stored in a service provider network. A STB may be utilized to access recorded and stored content. The input output mechanism of a STB receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items. Client application may include a DVR application .

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art although some embodiments described in this specification are oriented to middleware installed and executed on a STB alternative embodiments implemented as firmware or as hardware are well within the scope of the present invention.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . According to other embodiments two way communication transports may be utilized for example via high definition multimedia HDMI ports. The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space may operate across a variety of frequency ranges for example at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box . According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer profile data from services provider data services for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer and for pre populating product services order forms and customer lead generation forms. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention a billing system may include a service code for identifying selectable HHD sizes. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services.

The customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on products and services subscribed to by a customer from her cable services provider. For example in accordance with embodiments of the present invention the customer information database may contain data to allow a determination as to whether a particular product or service is already provisioned at a customer service address or whether a work order is pending for a particular product or service provisioning at the customer service address. The customer information database may also include information that allows for a determination as to whether prerequisites for provisioning a requested product of service are met by a requesting customer. For example if a customer requests electronic mail services and high speed Internet access is a prerequisite for electronic mail services the customer information database may be queried to determine whether the required Internet access is provisioned at the requesting customer location or address.

As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . When the application server requires customer profile data from one or more of the data services for preparation or update of a customer profile the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

As should be appreciated a range of configurable storage medium sizes may be provided and supported by a service provider e.g. 160 GB 320 GB 500 GB 750 GB etc. . According to an embodiment various selectable storage medium sizes may be supported by a service provider for applying embodiments of the present invention. In OPERATION a service code for each selectable storage medium size may be added to a service provider s billing system with a corresponding unique billing service code. According to an embodiment a service code may be utilized to verify that a storage medium is a modular storage medium and its storage capacity may be managed by the service provider. According to another embodiment a service code may be utilized to verify an storage medium capacity. As will be described in more detail in this specification according to an embodiment a service code may be utilized to verify a customer s provisioned storage medium is sufficient to honor a selected storage service upgrade or downgrade request.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where an indication of a storage service upgrade request is received. According to an embodiment an accessible internal recording space of a modular storage medium may be increased. For example a customer may have a DVR with a 500 GB HDD configured with 160 GB of accessible storage space. He she may have content saved that is nearing the accessible capacity if his her HDD. He she may want to record a certain program that will exceed the accessible storage capacity and he she may not want to delete any of the programming previously saved. Consequently he she may desire additional accessible recording space. A customer may request a HDD service upgrade by various ways including but not limited to calling a customer service representative through an order service by an interactive application via an online communication system or by other ways known in the art.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where according to an embodiment after an indication of a storage upgrade request is received a billing system may verify a service code corresponding to a selectable storage medium size. In some cases a service code may not be identified. For example a customer may own his her own DVR or his her storage medium may not be modular therefore a service code may not be provided with a storage medium of a DVR. According to an embodiment if a service code cannot be identified a service provider may not upgrade an accessible storage capacity of a DVR . At OPERATION a storage service upgrade request may fail to execute.

If a service code is identified by a service provider billing system the method proceeds to OPERATION where a verification of a customer s DVR storage capacity is performed to ensure sufficient additional selectable storage capacity is available to honor the selected storage service upgrade request. According to an embodiment a physical capacity of an internal storage medium on a given DVR may be communicated through common data calls understood via an API set. According to one embodiment an API set may be called from a head end to communicate the physical capacity of the storage medium. According to another embodiment an API set may be called from a client application . As should be appreciated an API set may be located on a middleware layer or a firmware layer of a server and client side. If a customer s storage capacity is not sufficient to honor a selected storage service upgrade request the method may proceed to OPERATION where a storage service upgrade request may fail to execute. According to an embodiment if a storage service upgrade request fails to execute a customer service representative may be prompted to inform the customer that the storage associated with his her DVR cannot be upgraded. A customer service representative may take action to facilitate a customer DVR swap in order to provide the customer with a DVR with a larger physical storage capacity.

If a customer s storage medium capacity is sufficient to honor a selected storage service upgrade request the method may proceed to OPERATION where a selected storage service upgrade process is performed. According to an embodiment a service code may be utilized to unlock additional storage medium space.

According to an embodiment when a customer upgrades to additional accessible storage capacity content stored on a DVR is preserved. That is when a DVR storage medium partition is extended the storage medium s content is preserved. Content may be stored on an internal storage medium and or an external storage medium. According to an embodiment internally and externally stored content may be preserved when an internal DVR storage medium partition is extended.

In some cases a customer may wish to downgrade storage service and have less storage capacity accessible to him her. At OPERATION in method an indication of a storage downgrade request may be received. A storage downgrade request may be communicated in various ways for example by contacting a customer service representative.

According to an embodiment after an indication of a storage downgrade request is received the method proceeds to OPERATION where a billing system may verify a service code corresponding to a selectable storage medium size. In some cases a service code may not be identified. For example a customer may own his her own DVR or his her storage medium may not be modular therefore a service code may not be provided with a storage medium of a DVR . According to an embodiment if a service code cannot be identified a service provider may not downgrade a selectable storage capacity of a DVR and the method may proceed to OPERATION where a storage service downgrade request may fail to execute.

If a service code is identified by a service provider billing system the method proceeds to OPERATION where a verification of a customer s DVR storage capacity is performed to ensure a lower selectable storage capacity is available to honor the selected storage service downgrade request. According to an embodiment and as described above a physical capacity of an internal storage medium on a given DVR may be communicated through common data calls understood via an API set. According to one embodiment an API set may be called from a head end to communicate the physical capacity of the storage medium. According to another embodiment an API set may be called from a client application . As should be appreciated an API set may be located on a middleware layer or a firmware layer of a server and client side. If a lower selectable storage capacity is not available to honor a selected storage service downgrade request the method may proceed to OPERATION where a storage service downgrade request may fail to execute.

If a lower selectable storage capacity is available to honor a selected storage service downgrade request the method may proceed to OPERATION where a selected storage service downgrade process is performed. According to an embodiment a service code may be utilized to lock a specified amount of storage medium space. According to an embodiment a user may still view his her previously recorded content after his her storage recording space has been decreased however until enough space to record new content is available new content may not be recorded. The method ends at OPERATION .

According to an embodiment during an upgrade and or downgrade process various functionalities may be unaffected e.g. Live Off Disk LOD functionality reserved segments of space on an storage medium E HDD features Multi Room MR DVR functionality etc .

After an indication of a request to record new content is received the method proceeds to OPERATION where a verification of a customer s accessible DVR storage medium capacity is performed to ensure sufficient accessible storage capacity is available to honor the recording request. According to an embodiment a physical capacity of an internal storage medium on a given DVR may be communicated through common data calls understood via an API set. According to one embodiment an API set may be called from a head end to communicate the physical capacity of the storage medium. According to another embodiment an API set may be called from a client application . As should be appreciated an API set may be located on a middleware layer or a firmware layer of a server and client side.

If enough accessible storage capacity is available to record a desired programming the method proceeds to OPERATION where the recording request may be scheduled. If there is not enough accessible storage capacity for the recording request the method proceeds to OPERATION where deleteable content may be deleted. A variety of settings are known in the art that may be selected to manage the deletion of recorded content. For example a recording may be set to be automatically deleted when space is needed or a recording may be set to be saved until manually erased. Typically when a program is set for automatic deletion as space is needed the oldest recordings may be deleted first. According to one embodiment an amount of deleteable content that would allow enough space to record a requested program may be deleted. According to another embodiment if a storage capacity has been downgraded and a request to record new content is received deleteable content exceeding a configured physical capacity of the downgraded accessible storage capacity may be deleted in addition to an amount of deleteable content that would allow enough space to record a requested program. According to another embodiment a user may select content to be deleted to free up storage space. According to another embodiment content that has been viewed and that has not been designated as content to be saved until deleted by a user may be deleted by a DVR application to free up storage space.

The method proceeds to OPERATION where another verification of a customer s accessible DVR storage capacity may be performed. If enough content was deleted in OPERATION to allow for enough room for the requested recording the method proceeds to OPERATION where the requested recording is scheduled. If there is still not enough accessible capacity for the requested recording the method proceeds to OPERATION where the recording request fails to execute and a notification of the failure to execute the request may be provided to the requestor customer .

The method proceeds to OPERATION where a verification of a customer s DVR storage medium capacity may be performed to see if additional selectable storage capacity may be available for a storage service upgrade. If additional selectable storage capacity is available the method proceeds to OPERATION where an up sell message is provided to the requestor customer. After an up sell message is provided the method proceeds to OPERATION . If an indication of a storage upgrade request is received the method then proceeds to OPERATION where a storage service upgrade is performed and additional storage space may be unlocked. According to an embodiment a service code may be utilized to unlock additional storage space. The method then ends at OPERATION .

While certain embodiments of the invention have been described other embodiments may exist. Furthermore although embodiments of the present invention have been described as being associated with data stored in memory and other storage mediums data can also be stored on or read from other types of computer readable media such as secondary storage devices like hard disks floppy disks or a CD ROM a carrier wave from the Internet or other forms of RAM or ROM. Further the disclosed methods stages may be modified in any manner including by reordering stages and or inserting or deleting stages without departing from the invention.

As described herein embodiments of the present invention are directed to providing modular storage functionality for a digital video recorder DVR which may be configured in such a way as to limit a user s access to the whole storage medium capacity and wherein a user may choose to increase or decrease the amount of accessible storage capacity of the storage medium. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

