---

title: Printhead nozzle cell having photoresist chamber
abstract: A nozzle cell of a printhead is provided which has a multi-layer substrate defining a fluid inlet, side walls extending from the substrate around the fluid inlet and comprising walls of silicon nitride encapsulating hardened photoresist, an apertured roof supported by the side walls to define a chamber, and a heater within the chamber, the heater heating the fluid in the chamber so that bubbles are generated therein to cause ejection of the fluid from a nozzle defined with the apertured roof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07984975&OS=07984975&RS=07984975
owner: Silverbrook Research Pty Ltd
number: 07984975
owner_city: Balmain, New South Wales
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20100224
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 265 637 filed Nov. 5 2008 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 677 704 which is a continuation of Ser. No. 12 017 771 filed on Jan. 22 2008 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 469 997 which is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 097 266 filed on Apr. 4 2005 now issued U.S. Pat. No. 7 344 226 all of which is herein incorporated by reference.

The following patents or patent applications filed by the applicant or assignee of the present invention are hereby incorporated by cross reference.

The present invention relates to the field of inkjet printers and discloses an inkjet printing system using printheads manufactured with microelectro mechanical systems MEMS techniques.

Many different types of printing have been invented a large number of which are presently in use. The known forms of print have a variety of methods for marking the print media with a relevant marking media. Commonly used forms of printing include offset printing laser printing and copying devices dot matrix type impact printers thermal paper printers film recorders thermal wax printers dye sublimation printers and ink jet printers both of the drop on demand and continuous flow type. Each type of printer has its own advantages and problems when considering cost speed quality reliability simplicity of construction and operation etc.

In recent years the field of ink jet printing wherein each individual pixel of ink is derived from one or more ink nozzles has become increasingly popular primarily due to its inexpensive and versatile nature.

Many different techniques on ink jet printing have been invented. For a survey of the field reference is made to an article by J Moore Non Impact Printing Introduction and Historical Perspective Output Hard Copy Devices Editors R Dubeck and S Sherr pages 207 220 1988 .

Ink Jet printers themselves come in many different types. The utilization of a continuous stream of ink in ink jet printing appears to date back to at least 1929 wherein U.S. Pat. No. 1 941 001 by Hansell discloses a simple form of continuous stream electro static ink jet printing.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 275 by Sweet also discloses a process of a continuous ink jet printing including the step wherein the ink jet stream is modulated by a high frequency electro static field so as to cause drop separation. This technique is still utilized by several manufacturers including Elmjet and Scitex see also U.S. Pat. No. 3 373 437 by Sweet et al 

Piezoelectric ink jet printers are also one form of commonly utilized ink jet printing device. Piezoelectric systems are disclosed by Kyser et. al. in U.S. Pat. No. 3 946 398 1970 which utilizes a diaphragm mode of operation by Zolten in U.S. Pat. No. 3 683 212 1970 which discloses a squeeze mode of operation of a piezoelectric crystal Stemme in U.S. Pat. No. 3 747 120 1972 discloses a bend mode of piezoelectric operation Howkins in U.S. Pat. No. 4 459 601 discloses a piezoelectric push mode actuation of the ink jet stream and Fischbeck in U.S. Pat. No. 4 584 590 which discloses a shear mode type of piezoelectric transducer element.

Recently thermal ink jet printing has become an extremely popular form of ink jet printing. The ink jet printing techniques include those disclosed by Endo et al in GB 2007162 1979 and Vaught et al in U.S. Pat. No. 4 490 728. Both the aforementioned references disclosed ink jet printing techniques that rely upon the activation of an electrothermal actuator which results in the creation of a bubble in a constricted space such as a nozzle which thereby causes the ejection of ink from an aperture connected to the confined space onto a relevant print media. Printing devices utilizing the electro thermal actuator are manufactured by manufacturers such as Canon and Hewlett Packard.

As can be seen from the foregoing many different types of printing technologies are available. Ideally a printing technology should have a number of desirable attributes. These include inexpensive construction and operation high speed operation safe and continuous long term operation etc. Each technology may have its own advantages and disadvantages in the areas of cost speed quality reliability power usage simplicity of construction operation durability and consumables.

In the construction of any inkjet printing system there are a considerable number of important factors which must be traded off against one another especially as large scale printheads are constructed especially those of a pagewidth type. A number of these factors are outlined in the following paragraphs.

Firstly inkjet printheads are normally constructed utilizing micro electromechanical systems MEMS techniques. As such they tend to rely upon standard integrated circuit construction fabrication techniques of depositing planar layers on a silicon wafer and etching certain portions of the planar layers. Within silicon circuit fabrication technology certain techniques are better known than others. For example the techniques associated with the creation of CMOS circuits are likely to be more readily used than those associated with the creation of exotic circuits including ferroelectrics galium arsenide etc. Hence it is desirable in any MEMS constructions to utilize well proven semi conductor fabrication techniques which do not require any exotic processes or materials. Of course a certain degree of trade off will be undertaken in that if the advantages of using the exotic material far out weighs its disadvantages then it may become desirable to utilize the material anyway. However if it is possible to achieve the same or similar properties using more common materials the problems of exotic materials can be avoided.

A desirable characteristic of inkjet printheads would be a hydrophobic nozzle front face preferably in combination with hydrophilic nozzle chambers and ink supply channels. This combination is optimal for ink ejection. Moreover a hydrophobic front face minimizes the propensity for ink to flood across the front face of the printhead. With a hydrophobic front face the aqueous inkjet ink is less likely to flood sideways out of the nozzle openings and more likely to form spherical ejectable microdroplets.

However whilst hydrophobic front faces and hydrophilic ink chambers are desirable there is a major problem in fabricating such printheads by MEMS techniques. The final stage of MEMS printhead fabrication is typically ashing of photoresist using an oxygen plasma. However any organic hydrophobic material deposited onto the front face will typically be removed by the ashing process to leave a hydrophilic surface. Accordingly the deposition of hydrophobic material needs to occur after ashing. However a problem with post ashing deposition of hydrophobic materials is that the hydrophobic material will be deposited inside nozzle chambers as well as on the front face of the printhead. With no photoresist to protect the nozzle chambers the nozzle chamber walls become hydrophobized which is highly undesirable in terms of generating a positive ink pressure biased towards the nozzle chambers. This is a conundrum which has to date not been addressed in printhead fabrication.

Accordingly it would be desirable to provide a printhead fabrication process in which the resultant printhead chip has improved surface characteristics without comprising the surface characteristics of nozzle chambers. It would further be desirable to provide a printhead fabrication process in which the resultant printhead chip has a hydrophobic front face in combination with hydrophilic nozzle chambers.

In a first aspect there is provided a printhead comprising a plurality of nozzles formed on a substrate each nozzle comprising a nozzle chamber a nozzle opening defined in a roof of the nozzle chamber and an actuator for ejecting ink through the nozzle opening 

wherein at least part of an ink ejection face of the printhead is hydrophobic relative to the inside surfaces of each nozzle chamber.

In a second aspect there is provided a method of hydrophobizing an ink ejection face of a printhead whilst avoiding hydrophobizing nozzle chambers and or ink supply channels the method comprising the steps of 

With reference to the unit cell of a printhead according to an embodiment of the invention comprises a nozzle plate with nozzles therein the nozzles having nozzle rims and apertures extending through the nozzle plate. The nozzle plate is plasma etched from a silicon nitride structure which is deposited by way of chemical vapor deposition CVD over a sacrificial material which is subsequently etched.

The printhead also includes with respect to each nozzle side walls on which the nozzle plate is supported a chamber defined by the walls and the nozzle plate a multi layer substrate and an inlet passage extending through the multi layer substrate to the far side not shown of the substrate. A looped elongate heater element is suspended within the chamber so that the element is in the form of a suspended beam. The printhead as shown is a microelectromechanical system MEMS structure which is formed by a lithographic process which is described in more detail below.

When the printhead is in use ink from a reservoir not shown enters the chamber via the inlet passage so that the chamber fills to the level as shown in . Thereafter the heater element is heated for somewhat less than 1 microsecond so that the heating is in the form of a thermal pulse. It will be appreciated that the heater element is in thermal contact with the ink in the chamber so that when the element is heated this causes the generation of vapor bubbles in the ink. Accordingly the ink constitutes a bubble forming liquid. shows the formation of a bubble approximately 1 microsecond after generation of the thermal pulse that is when the bubble has just nucleated on the heater elements . It will be appreciated that as the heat is applied in the form of a pulse all the energy necessary to generate the bubble is to be supplied within that short time.

When the element is heated as described above the bubble forms along the length of the element this bubble appearing in the cross sectional view of as four bubble portions one for each of the element portions shown in cross section.

The bubble once generated causes an increase in pressure within the chamber which in turn causes the ejection of a drop of the ink through the nozzle . The rim assists in directing the drop as it is ejected so as to minimize the chance of drop misdirection.

The reason that there is only one nozzle and chamber per inlet passage is so that the pressure wave generated within the chamber on heating of the element and forming of a bubble does not affect adjacent chambers and their corresponding nozzles. The pressure wave generated within the chamber creates significant stresses in the chamber wall. Forming the chamber from an amorphous ceramic such as silicon nitride silicon dioxide glass or silicon oxynitride gives the chamber walls high strength while avoiding the use of material with a crystal structure. Crystalline defects can act as stress concentration points and therefore potential areas of weakness and ultimately failure.

The increase in pressure within the chamber not only pushes ink out through the nozzle but also pushes some ink back through the inlet passage . However the inlet passage is approximately 200 to 300 microns in length and is only approximately 16 microns in diameter. Hence there is a substantial viscous drag. As a result the predominant effect of the pressure rise in the chamber is to force ink out through the nozzle as an ejected drop rather than back through the inlet passage .

Turning now to the printhead is shown at a still further successive stage of operation in which the ink drop that is being ejected is shown during its necking phase before the drop breaks off. At this stage the bubble has already reached its maximum size and has then begun to collapse towards the point of collapse as reflected in more detail in .

The collapsing of the bubble towards the point of collapse causes some ink to be drawn from within the nozzle from the sides of the drop and some to be drawn from the inlet passage towards the point of collapse. Most of the ink drawn in this manner is drawn from the nozzle forming an annular neck at the base of the drop prior to its breaking off.

The drop requires a certain amount of momentum to overcome surface tension forces in order to break off. As ink is drawn from the nozzle by the collapse of the bubble the diameter of the neck reduces thereby reducing the amount of total surface tension holding the drop so that the momentum of the drop as it is ejected out of the nozzle is sufficient to allow the drop to break off.

When the drop breaks off cavitation forces are caused as reflected by the arrows as the bubble collapses to the point of collapse . It will be noted that there are no solid surfaces in the vicinity of the point of collapse on which the cavitation can have an effect.

Referring to the unit cell shown has the chamber ink supply passage and the nozzle rim positioned mid way along the length of the unit cell . As best seen in the drive circuitry is partially on one side of the chamber with the remainder on the opposing side of the chamber. The drive circuitry controls the operation of the heater through vias in the integrated circuit metallisation layers of the interconnect . The interconnect has a raised metal layer on its top surface. Passivation layer is formed in top of the interconnect but leaves areas of the raised metal layer exposed. Electrodes of the heater contact the exposed metal areas to supply power to the element .

Alternatively the drive circuitry for one unit cell is not on opposing sides of the heater element that it controls. All the drive circuitry for the heater of one unit cell is in a single undivided area that is offset from the heater. That is the drive circuitry is partially overlaid by one of the electrodes of the heater that it is controlling and partially overlaid by one or more of the heater electrodes from adjacent unit cells. In this situation the center of the drive circuitry is less than 200 microns from the center of the associate nozzle aperture . In most Memjet printheads of this type the offset is less than 100 microns and in many cases less than 50 microns preferably less than 30 microns.

Configuring the nozzle components so that there is significant overlap between the electrodes and the drive circuitry provides a compact design with high nozzle density nozzles per unit area of the nozzle plate . This also improves the efficiency of the printhead by shortening the length of the conductors from the circuitry to the electrodes. The shorter conductors have less resistance and therefore dissipate less energy.

The high degree of overlap between the electrodes and the drive circuitry also allows more vias between the heater material and the CMOS metalization layers of the interconnect . As best shown in the passivation layer has an array of vias to establish an electrical connection with the heater . More vias lowers the resistance between the heater electrodes and the interconnect layer which reduces power losses. However the passivation layer and electrodes may also be provided without vias in order to simplify the fabrication process.

In the unit cell is the same as that of apart from the heater element . The heater element has a bubble nucleation section with a smaller cross section than the remainder of the element. The bubble nucleation section has a greater resistance and heats to a temperature above the boiling point of the ink before the remainder of the element . The gas bubble nucleates at this region and subsequently grows to surround the rest of the element . By controlling the bubble nucleation and growth the trajectory of the ejected drop is more predictable.

The heater element is configured to accommodate thermal expansion in a specific manner. As heater elements expand they will deform to relieve the strain. Elements such as that shown in will bow out of the plane of lamination because its thickness is the thinnest cross sectional dimension and therefore has the least bending resistance. Repeated bending of the element can lead to the formation of cracks especially at sharp corners which can ultimately lead to failure. The heater element shown in is configured so that the thermal expansion is relieved by rotation of the bubble nucleation section and slightly splaying the sections leading to the electrodes in preference to bowing out of the plane of lamination. The geometry of the element is such that miniscule bending within the plane of lamination is sufficient to relieve the strain of thermal expansion and such bending occurs in preference to bowing. This gives the heater element greater longevity and reliability by minimizing bend regions which are prone to oxidation and cracking.

Referring to the heater element used in this unit cell has a serpentine or double omega shape. This configuration keeps the gas bubble centered on the axis of the nozzle. A single omega is a simple geometric shape which is beneficial from a fabrication perspective. However the gap between the ends of the heater element means that the heating of the ink in the chamber is slightly asymmetrical. As a result the gas bubble is slightly skewed to the side opposite the gap . This can in turn affect the trajectory of the ejected drop. The double omega shape provides the heater element with the gap to compensate for the gap so that the symmetry and position of the bubble within the chamber is better controlled and the ejected drop trajectory is more reliable.

The omega shape directs current flow around the axis of the nozzle aperture . This gives good bubble alignment with the aperture for better ejection of drops while ensuring that the bubble collapse point is not on the heater element . As discussed above this avoids problems caused by cavitation.

Referring to another embodiment of the unit cell is shown together with several stages of the etching and deposition fabrication process. In this embodiment the heater element is suspended from opposing sides of the chamber. This allows it to be symmetrical about two planes that intersect along the axis of the nozzle aperture . This configuration provides a drop trajectory along the axis of the nozzle aperture while avoiding the cavitation problems discussed above.

In the interests of brevity the fabrication stages have been shown for the unit cell of only see . It will be appreciated that the other unit cells will use the same fabrication stages with different masking.

Referring to there is shown the starting point for fabrication of the thermal inkjet nozzle shown in . CMOS processing of a silicon wafer provides a silicon substrate having drive circuitry and an interlayer dielectric interconnect . The interconnect comprises four metal layers which together form a seal ring for the inlet passage to be etched through the interconnect. The top metal layer which forms an upper portion of the seal ring can be seen in . The metal seal ring prevents ink moisture from seeping into the interconnect when the inlet passage is filled with ink.

A passivation layer is deposited onto the top metal layer by plasma enhanced chemical vapour deposition PECVD . After deposition of the passivation layer it is etched to define a circular recess which forms parts of the inlet passage . At the same as etching the recess a plurality of vias are also etched which allow electrical connection through the passivation layer to the top metal layer . The etch pattern is defined by a layer of patterned photoresist not shown which is removed by Oashing after the etch.

Referring to in the next fabrication sequence a layer of photoresist is spun onto the passivation later . The photoresist is exposed and developed to define a circular opening. With the patterned photoresist in place the dielectric interconnect is etched as far as the silicon substrate using a suitable oxide etching gas chemistry e.g. O CF . Etching through the silicon substrate is continued down to about 20 microns to define a front ink hole using a suitable silicon etching gas chemistry e.g. Bosch etch . The same photoresist mask can be used for both etching steps. shows the unit cell after etching the front ink hole and removal of the photoresist .

Referring to in the next stage of fabrication the front ink hole is plugged with photoresist to provide a front plug . At the same time a layer of photoresist is deposited over the passivation layer . This layer of photoresist is exposed and developed to define a first sacrificial scaffold over the front plug and scaffolding tracks around the perimeter of the unit cell. The first sacrificial scaffold is used for subsequent deposition of heater material thereon and is therefore formed with a planar upper surface to avoid any buckling in the heater element see heater element in . The first sacrificial scaffold is UV cured and hardbaked to prevent reflow of the photoresist during subsequent high temperature deposition onto its upper surface.

Importantly the first sacrificial scaffold has sloped or angled side faces . These angled side faces are formed by adjusting the focusing in the exposure tool e.g. stepper when exposing the photoresist. The sloped side faces advantageously allow heater material to be deposited substantially evenly over the first sacrificial scaffold .

Referring to the next stage of fabrication deposits the heater material over the first sacrificial scaffold the passivation layer and the perimeter scaffolding tracks . The heater material is typically a monolayer of TiAlN. However the heater material may alternatively comprise TiAlN sandwiched between upper and lower passivating materials such as tantalum or tantalum nitride. Passivating layers on the heater element minimize corrosion of the and improve heater longevity.

Referring to the heater material is subsequently etched down to the first sacrificial scaffold to define the heater element . At the same time contact electrodes are defined on either side of the heater element . The electrodes are in contact with the top metal layer and so provide electrical connection between the CMOS and the heater element . The sloped side faces of the first sacrificial scaffold ensure good electrical connection between the heater element and the electrodes since the heater material is deposited with sufficient thickness around the scaffold . Any thin areas of heater material due to insufficient side face deposition would increase resistivity and affect heater performance.

Adjacent unit cells are electrically insulated from each other by virtue of grooves etched around the perimeter of each unit cell. The grooves are etched at the same time as defining the heater element .

Referring to in the subsequent step a second sacrificial scaffold of photoresist is deposited over the heater material. The second sacrificial scaffold is exposed and developed to define sidewalls for the cylindrical nozzle chamber and perimeter sidewalls for each unit cell. The second sacrificial scaffold is also UV cured and hardbaked to prevent any reflow of the photoresist during subsequent high temperature deposition of the silicon nitride roof material.

Referring to silicon nitride is deposited onto the second sacrificial scaffold by plasma enhanced chemical vapour deposition. The silicon nitride forms a roof over each unit cell which is the nozzle plate for a row of nozzles. Chamber sidewalls and unit cell sidewalls are also formed by deposition of silicon nitride.

Referring to the nozzle rim is etched partially through the roof by placing a suitably patterned photoresist mask over the roof etching for a controlled period of time and removing the photoresist by ashing.

Referring to the nozzle aperture is etched through the roof down to the second sacrificial scaffold . Again the etch is performed by placing a suitably patterned photoresist mask over the roof etching down to the scaffold and removing the photoresist mask.

With the nozzle structure now fully formed on a frontside of the silicon substrate an ink supply channel is etched from the backside of the substrate which meets with the front plug .

Referring to after formation of the ink supply channel the first and second sacrificial scaffolds of photoresist together with the front plug are ashed off using an Oplasma. Accordingly fluid connection is made from the ink supply channel through to the nozzle aperture .

It should be noted that a portion of photoresist on either side of the nozzle chamber sidewalls remains encapsulated by the roof the unit cell sidewalls and the chamber sidewalls . This portion of photoresist is sealed from the Oashing plasma and therefore remains intact after fabrication of the printhead. This encapsulated photoresist advantageously provides additional robustness for the printhead by supporting the nozzle plate . Hence the printhead has a robust nozzle plate spanning continuously over rows of nozzles and being supported by solid blocks of hardened photoresist in addition to support walls.

Referring to it can been seen that a hydrophobic material may be deposited onto the roof at this stage by for example chemical vapour deposition. The whole of the front face of the printhead may be coated with hydrophobic material. Alternatively predetermined regions of the roof e.g. regions surrounding each nozzle aperture may be coated. However referring to the final stage of printhead fabrication involves ashing off the photoresist which occupies the nozzle chambers. Since hydrophobic coating materials are generally organic in nature the ashing process will remove the hydrophobic coating on the roof as well as the photoresist in the nozzle chambers. Hence a hydrophobic coating step at this stage would ultimately have no effect on the hydrophobicity of the roof .

Referring to it can be seen that a hydrophobic material may be deposited onto the roof at this stage by for example chemical vapour deposition. However the CVD process will deposit the hydrophobic material both onto the roof onto nozzle chamber sidewalls onto the heater element and inside ink supply channels . A hydrophobic coating inside the nozzle chambers and ink supply channels would be highly undesirable in terms of creating a positive ink pressure biased towards the nozzle chambers. A hydrophobic coating on the heater element would be equally undesirable in terms of kogation during printing.

Referring to there is shown a process for depositing a hydrophobic material onto the roof which eliminates the aforementioned selectivity problems. Before deposition of the hydrophobic material the printhead is primed with a liquid which fills the ink supply channels and nozzle chamber up to the rim . The liquid is preferably ink so that the hydrophobic deposition step can be incorporated into the overall printer manufacturing process. Once primed with ink the front face of the printhead including the roof is coated with a hydrophobic material by chemical vapour deposition see . The hydrophobic material cannot be deposited inside the nozzle chamber because the ink effectively seals the nozzle aperture from the vapour. Hence the ink protects the nozzle chamber and allows selective deposition of the hydrophobic material onto the roof . Accordingly the final printhead has a hydrophobic front face in combination with hydrophilic nozzle chambers and ink supply channels.

The choice of hydrophobic material is not critical. Any hydrophobic compound which can adhere to the roof by either covalent bonding ionic bonding chemisorption or adsorption may be used. The choice of hydrophobic material will depend on the material forming the roof and also the liquid used to prime the nozzles.

Typically the roof is formed from silicon nitride silicon oxide or silicon oxynitride. In this case the hydrophobic material is typically a compound which can form covalent bonds with the oxygen or nitrogen atoms exposed on the surface of the roof. Examples of suitable compounds are silyl chlorides including monochlorides dichlorides trichlorides having at least one hydrophobic group. The hydrophobic group is typically a Calkyl group optionally substituted with a plurality of fluorine atoms. The hydrophobic group may be perfluorinated partially fluorinated or non fluorinated. Examples of suitable hydrophobic compounds include trimethylsilyl chloride dimethylsilyl dichloride methylsilyl trichloride triethylsilyl chloride octyldimethylsilyl chloride perfluorooctyldimethylsilyl chloride perfluorooctylsilyl trichloride perfluorooctylchlorosilane etc.

Typically the nozzles are primed with an inkjet ink. In this case the hydrophobic material is typically a compound which does not polymerise in aqueous solution and form a skin across the nozzle aperture . Examples of non polymerizable hydrophobic compounds include trimethylsilyl chloride triethylsilyl chloride perfluorooctyldimethylsilyl chloride perfluorooctylchlorosilane etc.

Whilst silyl chlorides have been exemplified as hydrophobizing compounds hereinabove it will be appreciated that the present invention may be used in conjunction with any hydrophobizing compound which can be deposited by CVD or another suitable deposition process.

The invention has been described above with reference to printheads using bubble forming heater elements. However it is potentially suited to a wide range of printing system including color and monochrome office printers short run digital printers high speed digital printers offset press supplemental printers low cost scanning printers high speed pagewidth printers notebook computers with inbuilt pagewidth printers portable color and monochrome printers color and monochrome copiers color and monochrome facsimile machines combined printer facsimile and copying machines label printers large format plotters photograph copiers printers for digital photographic minilabs video printers PHOTO CD PHOTO CD is a registered trade mark of the Eastman Kodak Company printers portable printers for PDAs wallpaper printers indoor sign printers billboard printers fabric printers camera printers and fault tolerant commercial printer arrays.

It will be appreciated by ordinary workers in this field that numerous variations and or modifications may be made to the present invention as shown in the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects to be illustrative and not restrictive.

The embodiments of the invention use an ink jet printer type device. Of course many different devices could be used.

The most significant problem with thermal ink jet is power consumption. This is approximately 100 times that required for high speed and stems from the energy inefficient means of drop ejection. This involves the rapid boiling of water to produce a vapor bubble which expels the ink. Water has a very high heat capacity and must be superheated in thermal ink jet applications. In conventional thermal inkjet printheads this leads to an efficiency of around 0.02 from electricity input to drop momentum and increased surface area out.

The most significant problem with piezoelectric ink jet is size and cost. Piezoelectric crystals have a very small deflection at reasonable drive voltages and therefore require a large area for each nozzle. Also each piezoelectric actuator must be connected to its drive circuit on a separate substrate. This is not a significant problem at the current limit of around 300 nozzles per printhead but is a major impediment to the fabrication of pagewidth printheads with 19 200 nozzles.

Ideally the ink jet technologies used meet the stringent requirements of in camera digital color printing and other high quality high speed low cost printing applications. To meet the requirements of digital photography new ink jet technologies have been created. The target features include 

All of these features can be met or exceeded by the ink jet systems described below with differing levels of difficulty. Forty five different ink jet technologies have been developed by the Assignee to give a wide range of choices for high volume manufacture. These technologies form part of separate applications assigned to the present Assignee as set out in the table under the heading Cross References to Related Applications.

The ink jet designs shown here are suitable for a wide range of digital printing systems from battery powered one time use digital cameras through to desktop and network printers and through to commercial printing systems.

For ease of manufacture using standard process equipment the printhead is designed to be a monolithic 0.5 micron CMOS chip with MEMS post processing. For color photographic applications the printhead is 100 mm long with a width which depends upon the ink jet type. The smallest printhead designed is IJ38 which is 0.35 mm wide giving a chip area of 35 square mm. The printheads each contain 19 200 nozzles plus data and control circuitry.

Ink is supplied to the back of the printhead by injection molded plastic ink channels. The molding requires 50 micron features which can be created using a lithographically micromachined insert in a standard injection molding tool. Ink flows through holes etched through the wafer to the nozzle chambers fabricated on the front surface of the wafer. The printhead is connected to the camera circuitry by tape automated bonding.

Eleven important characteristics of the fundamental operation of individual ink jet nozzles have been identified. These characteristics are largely orthogonal and so can be elucidated as an eleven dimensional matrix. Most of the eleven axes of this matrix include entries developed by the present assignee.

The complete eleven dimensional table represented by these axes contains 36.9 billion possible configurations of ink jet nozzle. While not all of the possible combinations result in a viable ink jet technology many million configurations are viable. It is clearly impractical to elucidate all of the possible configurations. Instead certain ink jet types have been investigated in detail. These are designated IJ01 to IJ45 above which matches the docket numbers in the table under the heading Cross References to Related Applications.

Other ink jet configurations can readily be derived from these forty five examples by substituting alternative configurations along one or more of the 11 axes. Most of the IJ01 to IJ45 examples can be made into ink jet printheads with characteristics superior to any currently available ink jet technology.

Where there are prior art examples known to the inventor one or more of these examples are listed in the examples column of the tables below. The IJ01 to IJ45 series are also listed in the examples column. In some cases print technology may be listed more than once in a table where it shares characteristics with more than one entry.

Suitable applications for the ink jet technologies include Home printers Office network printers Short run digital printers Commercial print systems Fabric printers Pocket printers Internet WWW printers Video printers Medical imaging Wide format printers Notebook PC printers Fax machines Industrial printing systems Photocopiers Photographic minilabs etc.

The information associated with the aforementioned 11 dimensional matrix are set out in the following tables.

