---

title: Method of detecting oncogenesis of hematopoietic cells
abstract: Disclosed in a method of detecting cancer using IL-27 receptors. IL27R is a cytokine receptor identified as a novel oncogene from an acute myeloid leukemia patient. It induces cancer-like properties when expressed in cells and can activate a protein that causes various myeloid cell disorders. The data show cytokine receptors play unappreciated roles in mediating activation of signaling pathways in circulatory system cancers. Also method of screening for novel oncogenes using a functional, approach is disclosed using cytokine-dependent cells to screen for transforming events.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08367344&OS=08367344&RS=08367344
owner: University of South Florida
number: 08367344
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100416
---
This application is a continuation of prior filed International Application Serial Number PCT US2008 080487 filed Oct. 20 2008 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 980 952 filed Oct. 18 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference into this disclosure.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. CA098330 awarded by the National Cancer Institute. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates to an medical diagnostic techniques and research cell lines. More specifically the invention provides methods of testing for cancerous cells and methods of producing oncogenic research cell lines.

Acute myeloid leukemia AML is a disease of the myeloid compartment of the hematopoietic system characterized by an accumulation of undifferentiated blast cells in the peripheral blood and bone marrow. AML is caused by multiple genetic and epigenetic changes that result in stimulation of mitogenic signals as well as deregulation of apoptosis and differentiation. It has been proposed that mutations in two different classes of oncogenes are required to induce AML. Mutations in class I oncogenes e.g. Ras Flt3 result in stimulation of proliferative and cell survival signals while mutations in class II oncogenes e.g. AMLJ Eto PML RAR lead to inhibition of differentiation and subsequent cell death by apoptosis Frohling S et al. Genetics of Myeloid Malignancies Pathogenetic and Clinical Implications 2005 Sep. 10 23 26 6285 95 Gilliland D. G. Hematologic malignancies 2001 July 8 4 189 91 Gilliland D. G. Molecular genetics of human leukemias New insights into therapy 2002 October 39 4 Suppl 3 6 11 . While many mutations are recurrently found in AML patients it is believed that additional mutations in AML exist and have yet to be identified Gilliland D. G. Tallman M. S. Focus on acute leukemias 2002 June 1 5 417 20 Deguchi K. Gilliland D. G. Cooperativity between mutations in tyrosine kinases and in hematopoietic transcription factors in AML 2002 April 16 4 740 4 Carnicer M. J. et al. FLT3 mutations are associated with other molecular lesions in AML 2004 January 28 1 19 23 .

Screens have been performed to identify oncogenes in AML utilizing an efficient retroviral delivery expression and cDNA recovery system Reuther G. W. et al. RasGRP4 is a novel Ras activator isolated from acute myeloid leukemia 2002 Aug. 23 277 34 30508 14 Reuther G. W. et al. Identification and characterization of an activating TrkA deletion mutation in acute myeloid leukemia 2000 December 20 23 8655 66 . Using this approach a novel activating deletion mutation was identified in the TrkA tyrosine kinase in a patient with AML Reuther G. W. et al. 2002 Aug. 23 277 34 30508 14 . This discovery provided the first evidence that TrkA may play a role in leukemogenesis. The deletion mutation identified has been shown to be leukemogenic in mice Meyer J et al. Remarkable leukemogenic potency and quality of a constitutively active neurotrophin receptor Delta TrkA 2007 October 21 10 2171 80 further validating the approach to identify genes that contribute to leukemia formation.

Interleukin 27 IL 27 was recently identified as a member of the IL 6 IL 12 family and an important Th1 cytokine IL 27 is comprised of a helical subunit p28 and a receptor like protein related to IL12 p40 called Epstein Barr induced gene 3 EBI3 . Villarino A. V. et al. IL 27R deficiency delays the onset of colitis and protects from helminth induced pathology in a model of chromic IBD 2008 June 20 6 739 52 Owaki T. et al. A role for IL 27 in early regulation of Th1 differentiation 2005 Aug. 15 175 4 2191 200 IL 27 binds to TCCR a heterodimer of IL 27R also called WSX 1 and gp130 which are restricted to lymphoid and myeloid cells Villarino A. V. et al. 2008 June 20 6 739 52 . Upon binding IL 27 activates Jak1 2 Stat1 3 4 5 and TYK2 thereby inducing proliferation of na ve CD4 cells T bet expression and IL 12R 2 and IFN expression Lucas S. et al. IL 27 regulates IL 12 responsiveness of na ve CD4 T cells through Stat1 dependent and independent mechanisms 2003 Dec. 9 100 25 15047 52 Owaki T. et al. 2005 Aug. 15 175 4 2191 200 .

Even with a large knowledge base about the causative genetics of AML a more complete understanding of the molecular players is needed to identify targets for future therapeutic treatment for this disease.

Disclosed is a novel functional genetic screen to identify genes related to cancer cells and myeloid cell transformation like AML formation. The identification of the ligand binding component of the receptor for IL 27 IL 27R was described as a novel transforming gene product. IL 27R is expressed on the cell surface of leukemic cells of AML patients and demonstrate that IL 27R can transform hematopoietic cells in a JAK dependent manner. Also IL 27R activates JAK2 V617F. Previously only homodimeric type I cytokine receptors have been reported to activate this important JAK2 mutant. The data indicate that a single component of a heterodimeric cytokine receptor has the ability to aberrantly activate signaling pathways in hematopoietic cells. Thus components of heterodimeric cytokine receptors play a role in myeloid diseases either through aberrant expression or activating mutations.

An aspect of the present invention is a method of detecting cancerous disorders utilizing a cell line or tumor of interest. The cell line or tumor of interest is contacted with an antibody which binds a biomarker for the cancerous disorder specifically a component of interleukin 27 receptor and the antibody is allowed to bind to the biomarker. The presence of the biomarker is then detected in the cell line or tumor. In some embodiments the biomarker is a protein mRNA peptide proteineaceous aggregate or derivative of a protein mRNA peptide or proteineaceous aggregate. In further embodiments the biomarker is WSX 1 a component of the receptor for IL 27.

The biomarker is detected using an immunoprotein assay which includes FACS immunohistochemistry and Western blot. However other known immunoprotein assays are envisioned in this invention. In some embodiments the cell line or tumor of interest used herein is mammalian and in more specific embodiments the cell line or tumor of interest is human. The cancerous disorder includes leukemia myeloproliferative diseases myeloid tumors and acute myeloid leukemia. However this method is useful for other cancerous diseases and said diseases are also envisioned in this invention.

Also disclosed is a method of identifying cancerous genes using a functional genetic screen. A nucleic acid or nucleic acids are introduced into a retroviral delivery vector and the retroviral vector used to infect a cell culture of cytokine dependent cells with the nucleic acid retroviral vector. At least one cytokine is then removed from cell culture where the at least one cytokine is required by the cytokine dependent cells. The inserted nucleic acid or deritative thereof is isolated from surviving cells in the cell culture and identified. In some embodiments the nucleic acid is cDNA. In certain embodiments the screening method also involves isolating RNA from cells obtained from a patient constructing cDNA from the RNA and ligating the cDNA into the retroviral delivery vector. In specific embodiments the cytokine dependent cells are 32D or BaF3 cells. However this method is useful with other cytokine dependent cells which are also envisioned in this invention.

The screen is useful in screening for cancerous gene predictive of disorders such as leukemia myeloproliferative diseases myeloid tumors and acute myeloid leukemia. However this method is useful for other cancerous diseases and said diseases are also envisioned in this invention. In certain embodiments the nucleic acid is cDNA that encodes a heterodimeric transmembrane protein. Further embodiments provides that the cancerous gene is WSX 1.

The invention also provides a method of constructing a cancer research cell line. The cell line is constructed by isolating RNA from cells obtained from a patient and constructing cDNA from the RNA. The cDNA is then ligated into a retroviral vector and the cDNA introduced into a cell culture of cytokine dependent cells. The cytokine is then removed from cell culture. In some embodiments this produces a cell culture where the cDNA is stably transfected into the cells.

In certain embodiments the cDNA encodes a heterodimeric transmembrane protein and in more specific embodiments the cDNA encodes WSX 1. The method further provides in some embodiments introducing mutatant JAK2V617F into the cells. The method also provides in certain embodiments that the cytokine dependent cells are 32D or BaF3 cells. However this method is useful with other cytokine dependent cells which are also envisioned in this invention.

 Patient is used to describe an animal preferably a human to whom treatment is administered including prophylactic treatment with the compositions of the present invention.

293T cells were maintained in DMEM supplemented with 10 fetal bovine serum FBS . 32D cells and BaF3 cells were grown in RPMI supplemented with 10 FBS and 5 WEHI 3B conditioned medium as a source of IL 3. Ecotropic retrovirus was made in 293T cells using the pVPack system Stratagene . Stable cell lines were generated by retroviral infection as described in the supporting information.

To stimulate cell cultures with IL 27 32D and BaF3 cells expressing IL 27R were washed of growth factors and incubated in RPMI medium 1640 containing 0.1 BSA for 3 h. Cells were left untreated or stimulated with 100 ng ml recombinant human IL 27 R D Systems for 10 min. 293T cells were transfected with IL 27R JAK2 V617F and gp130 siRNA as indicated and as described. Two days later cells were stimulated with 100 ng ml human IL 27 for the length of time indicated and washed with ice cold PBS and cell lysates were prepared and analyzed by immunoblotting as described.

IL 27R Box1 mutant was generated by site directed mutagenesis Stratagene . See supporting information.

JAK2 V617F activation studies. 293T cells were transfected with combinations of pBabe puro pBabe puro IL 27RWT or Box1mt and MSCVneo JAK2 WT or V617F a gift of Ross Levine and SMARTPool siRNA against gp130 Dharmacon or a non silencing control siRNA Qiagen using calcium phosphate precipitation. Cells were lysed and analyzed by immunoblotting two days after transfection.

Production of Stable Cell Lines by Retroviral Infection. Stable cell lines were generated by retroviral infection using either the pBabepuro or pEYK3.1 retroviral vectors. For infections 5 1032D or BaF3 cells were infected at 37 C. using 0.5 1 ml of retrovirus 1 1.5 ml of growth medium and 8 g ml polybrene Sigma Aldrich in a final volume of 2 ml. Three hours later cells were transferred into 100 mm diameter dishes and growth medium was added to 10 ml. Two days later cells were selected in puromycin 0.5 g ml Sigma or selected by IL 3 deprivation.

IL 27R Box 1 mutant was generated by site directed mutagenesis Stratagene . Primers used were 5 GTCTGGGAGAAAGTTGCTGATGCTGCCAACAGCAGTT 3 and 5 AACTGCTGTTGGCAGCATCAGCAACTTTCTCCCAGAC 3 . Successful mutagenesis was confirmed by DNA sequencing followed by complete DNA sequencing of the entire IL 27R cDNA.

Neutralization of IL 27 with an Anti IL 27 Antibody. Recombinant mouse IL 27 eBioscience 2.5 ng was incubated in 100 l of growth medium with 5 g of goat anti mouse IL 27 p28 antibody AF1834 R D Systems or 5 g control goat IgG Santa Cruz Biotechnology at 37 C. for 1 h. These mixtures were then added to 293T cells expressing IL 27R to achieve final concentrations of 5 ng ml IL 27 and 10 g ml antibody. These cells were then incubated at 37 C. for 5 or 10 min. Stimulation of cells was stopped by removing the medium and quickly adding ice cold PBS. Cell lysis and immunoblotting were performed as described.

Treatment of IL 27R Transformed Cells with Anti IL 27 Neutralizing Antibodies. 32D and BaF3 cells transformed by IL 27R were plated at 0.5 10cells per 100 l of growth medium per well in a 96 well plate. A control volume of PBS or anti mouse IL 27 neutralizing antibody AF1834 R D Systems was added to a final concentration of 10 g ml. Twenty four and 48 h later relative cell numbers were determined by adding 4 l of CellTiter 96 Aqueous One Solution reagent Promega to each well. The plate was incubated for 2 h at 37 C. Absorbance was determined at 490 nm by using a 96 well plate reader. This was done in triplicate for each cell line at both 24 and 48 h after plating. In addition cell viability was determined at 48 h by trypan blue exclusion.

AML samples were obtained from the Moffitt Cancer Center Tissue Core Facility as viably frozen mononuclear cells from the bone marrow of untreated patients. Messenger RNA was isolated using FastTrack 2.0 mRNA Isolation Kit Invitrogen . Double stranded cDNA was prepared using SuperScript Double Stranded cDNA Synthesis Kit Invitrogen and purified in two size fractions using the Geneclean III kit Q Biogene . cDNA fractions were ligated into the pEYK3.1 retroviral vector Koh E. Y. et al. Novel retroviral vectors to facilitate expression screens in mammalian cells. 2002 Dec. 15 30 24 e142 and ligations were transformed into electrocompetent cells Lucigen . The library contained approximately 3.3 million bacterial colonies with a cloning efficiency of about 90 .

32D cells expressing exogenous Bcl2 were infected with retrovirus made from the AML cDNA library. Four independent infections were done for each cDNA fraction. Two days after infection cells were plated in the absence of IL 3 to select for IL 3 independent transformants. Genomic DNA was isolated from IL 3 independent cells and treated with Cre recombinase NEB to excise pEYK3.1 plasmids containing putative transforming cDNAs which were then isolated by bacterial transformation.

To assay 32D and BaF3 cell response to IL 3 deprivation cells were washed twice with RPMI 10 FBS. Cells were plated at a concentration of 4 10 ml in RPMI 10 FBS and cell growth and viability were monitored by trypan blue exclusion.

Cells were washed in PBS and lysed in lysis buffer 25 mM Tris pH7.4 150 mM NaCl 25 mM NaF 1 Triton X100 1 mM sodium vanadate 2 mM sodium pyrophosphate 10 g ml leupeptin 2 g ml aprotinin and 1 mM PMSF . Protein concentrations were determined by BCA protein assay kit Pierce Biotechnology and equal amounts of protein were analyzed by SDS PAGE. Primary antibodies used in this study include IL 27R TCCR C term Sigma phospho P STAT1 Y701 P STAT3 Y705 P JAK1 Y1022 1023 P JAK2 Y1007 1008 P ERK T202 Y204 JAK1 JAK2 Cell Signaling Technology P STAT5 Y694 BD Transduction Laboratories STAT1 STAT3 STAT5 and ERK1 Santa Cruz Biotechnology . Immunoblots were developed using ECL Western Blotting Substrate Pierce Biotechnology .

Expression of IL 27R was determined by flow cytometry using an anti human TCCR WSX 1 antibody R D Systems labeled with Alexa Flour 647 Invitrogen Molecular Probes . Details provided in supporting information.

32D cells were washed twice with RPMI containing 0.1 BSA and incubated in the same medium with either 0.1 DMSO 0.5 M or 2 M JAK inhibitor I EMD Biosciences Calbiochem for 3 hours before lysis. For cell growth and viability cells were plated at a concentration of 2 10 ml in RPMI 10 FBS and either 0.1 DMSO or 0.5 M JAK inhibitor I. Cell growth and viability were determined by trypan blue exclusion. After 24 hr of JAK inhibitor I treatment the percentage of apoptotic cells and cell cycle profiles were determined by flow cytometry. See supporting information.

Bone marrow cells were obtained as frozen mononuclear cells from the Moffitt Cancer Center Tissue Core under Institutional Review Board approval. Frozen bone marrow samples were thawed in RPMI medium 1640 containing 0.5 BSA. Fc receptors on 1 10cells were blocked with purified mouse anti human CD32 monoclonal antibody BD PharMingen in 50 l RPMI medium 1640 containing 3 FBS at 4 C. for 15 min. Cells were washed with PBS and stained in 50 l of RPMI medium 1640 containing 3 FBS 10 g ml anti human TCCR WSX 1 antibody AF1479 R D Systems labeled with Alexa Fluor 647 Invitrogen Molecular Probes and 1.25 g ml phycoerythrin conjugated anti human CD33 eBioscience for 1 h at 4 C. Cells were washed with PBS and resuspended in 300 l of PBS with 0.1 g ml DAPI as a viability marker. Stained cells at least 10 000 events were analyzed on a LSR II with FACSDiva BD Bioscience and FlowJo software Tree Star .

Flow Cytometry Apoptosis and Cell Cycle Analysis. The percentage of apoptotic cells after 24 h JAK inhibitor I treatment was determined by flow cytometric analysis of annexin V fluorescein BD Biosciences binding. Briefly 1 10cells were washed once with 1 PBS and resuspended in 100 l of 1 binding buffer. The cells were transferred to 5 ml culture tubes and stained with 3 l of annexin V FITC and 8 l of 10 g ml of propidium iodide PI . The cells were incubated for 15 min at room temperature in the dark. Four hundred microliters of 1 binding buffer was added to the samples and the cells were analyzed by flow cytometry. Flow cytometric analysis was performed on a FACS Scan instrument with CellQuest software BD Biosciences and data obtained were analyzed with FlowJo software Tree Star . Cell cycle profiles after 24 h JAK inhibitor I treatment were determined by flow cytometric analysis of PI stained cells. Briefly 1 10cells were washed once with 1 PBS and fixed and permeabilized with 70 ice cold ethanol. Cells were stored at 20 C. for at least 24 h. The cells were washed once with 1 PBS and resuspended in 500 l of PBS containing 0.1 Triton X 100 0.2 g l RNase A and 20 g ml PI and incubated for 30 min at room temperature in the dark. Stained cells were then analyzed by flow cytometry using a FACS Scan with CellQuest software and analyzed with FlowJo software Tree Star .

RT PCR. RNA was extracted from 10 10BaF3 32D IL 27R and WEHI 3B cells by using a RNeasy mini kit Qiagen . Reverse transcription was performed by using the SuperScipt III first strand synthesis system for RT PCR Invitrogen . The primers used for the PCR were mouse gp130 forward 5 CTG CCT CTT TCT GAA GCC AAT GGG 3 and reverse 5 GAC CAT GTA CAA CGT ATC ACT ACT 3 and mouse STAT 5 forward 5 GCA CGT TCA TCA TCG AGA AGC AGC 3 and reverse 5 GCC TGT TGC TTG TTC ACG AAA CCC 3 . These primers anneal to sequences derived from different exons of each gene. PCR conditions were 34 cycles of 94 C. denaturation for 30 s 55 C. annealing for 30 s and 72 C. extension for 1 min.

Cell Signaling Analyses in BaF3 Cells. BaF3 and 32D cells expressing a control vector washed free of IL 3 or transformed by IL 27R were incubated in RPMI medium 1640 supplemented with 10 FBS and no cytokine for 4 h. Total cell lysates were prepared and analyzed by immunoblotting as described.

In Vitro Complex Formation of JAKs and IL 27R. GST IL 27R fusion protein containing the amino acids of the transmembrane and intracellular region of IL 27R was generated by cloning the cDNA for amino acids 517 636 of IL 27Ra NM004843 into pGEX 2T. The fusion protein was induced and purified with glutathione Sepharose beads Pierce Biotechnology by standard procedures. Cell lysates from 32D cells and 293T cells transfected with empty vector 293T vector JAK2 WT 293T JAK2 WT or JAK2 V617F 293T JAK2 VF were diluted in incubation buffer 25 mM Tris pH 7.4 150 mM NaCl 10 glycerol and 0.1 Triton X 100 containing 25 mM NaF 1 mM sodium vanadate 2 mM sodium pyrophosphate 10 g ml leupeptin 2 g ml aprotinin and 1 mM PMSF . Lysates were rocked with GST beads alone or beads containing GST fused to the transmembrane and intracellular region of IL 27R for 3 h at 4 C. Bound proteins were eluted with 2 SB and analyzed along with total cell lysates by immunoblotting with antibodies for JAK1 JAK2 Cell Signaling Technologies and actin Sigma Aldrich .

Functional Genetic Screens to Identify Myeloid Cell Oncogenes Uncover Novel Transforming Properties of IL 27R

To identify oncogenes involved in AML and other myeloid disorders functional genetic screens were developed in myeloid cells. 32D myeloid progenitor cells which depend on IL 3 for growth and viability Greenberger J. S. et al. Demonstration of permanent factor dependent multipotential erythroid neutrophil basophil hematopoietic progenitor cell lines 1983 May 80 10 2931 5 were selected as the testing model. 32D Bcl2 cells were selected for multiple reasons. First removal of IL 3 leads to a very rapid apoptotic cell death of 32D cells and screens of parental 32D cells resulted in no cytokine independent isolates. Second oncogenic expression in 32D cells needs to elicit an anti apoptotic as well as a mitogenic signal to transform these cells to cytokine independence. Third it is believed that transformation of myeloid cells in AML is caused by mutations that activate cooperating signaling pathways. When 32D cells are cultured in the absence of IL 3 they undergo cell cycle arrest and apoptosis Askew D. S. et al. Constitutive c myc expression in an IL 3 dependent myeloid cell line suppresses cell cycle arrest and accelerates apoptosis 1991 October 6 10 1915 22 .

32D cells have served as a model cell system to study the transforming properties of various leukemia associated oncogenes such as Bcr Abl and Flt3 among others Laneuville P. et al. Expression of the chronic myelogenous leukemia associated p210bcr abl oncoprotein in a murine IL 3 dependent myeloid cell line 1991 February 6 2 275 82 Yamamoto Y. et al. Activating mutation of D835 within the activation loop of FLT3 in human hematologic malignancies 2001 Apr. 15 97 8 2434 9 . In the current approach cDNA was inserted into the model cells to represent the genes expressed in the leukemic cells of patients with AML. This cDNA was cloned into a retroviral vector pEYK3.1 a gift of George Daley designed for efficient delivery and proviral recovery Koh E. Y. et al. Novel retroviral vectors to facilitate expression screens in mammalian cells 2002 Dec. 15 30 24 e142 . Retrovirus containing cDNA libraries were created using AML patients and used this virus to infect 32D cells that exogenously express B cell CLL lymphoma 2 Bcl2 .

Culturing 32D cells without IL 3 resulted in cell death of the entire culture in a little over two days. However expression of Bcl2 led to enhanced cell survival in the absence of IL 3 without inducing cell growth data not shown . Two days after infection 32D Bcl2 cells were plated in medium lacking IL 3 to identify IL 3 independent transformants. Utilizing a cDNA library from an AML patient who exhibited AML of FAB subtype M5b a monocytic leukemia with 93 blast cells and normal cytogenetics cDNA was isolated representing a wildtype IL 27Ra TCCR WSX 1 Sprecher C. A. et al. Cloning and characterization of a novel class I cytokine receptor. 1998 May 8 246 1 82 90 gene from multiple independent isolates of IL 3 independent cells. For simplicity this gene and protein will be referred to as IL 27R.

Expression of IL 27R in 32D Bcl2 cells is sufficient to transform these cells to IL 3 independence data not shown . 32D cells were stably transfected with IL 27R or control vector and cultured in the absence of IL 3 starting on day 0. The total number of viable cells was determined by trypan blue exclusion. Interestingly IL 27R also transforms parental 32D cells to IL 3 cytokine independence seen in . Upon IL 27R transformation circles or a control vector squares cultured cells were grown in media without IL 3 starting on day 0. These results suggest that in the context of the expression of an entire library of cDNAs expression of Bcl2 in 32D cells during the initial screen likely sensitized these cells to transformation to IL 3 independence. Cell lysates of the transfected cells lane 2 were immunoblotted with anti IL 27R antibodies and analysis of the blot confirmed expression of IL 27R in these cells seen in . The two protein bands of IL 27R are the result of glycosylation data not shown . This is consistent with the presence of multiple glycosylation sites in the extracellular region of the receptor Sprecher C. A. et al. 1998 May 8 246 1 82 90 .

IL 27R is a type I cytokine receptor that functions as the ligand binding component of the receptor for IL 27 Pflanz S. et al. WSX 1 and glycoprotein 130 constitute a signal transducing receptor for IL 272004 Feb. 15 172 4 2225 31 Pflanz S. et al. IL 27 a heterodimeric cytokine composed of EBI3 and p28 protein induces proliferation of naive CD4 T cells. 2002 June 16 6 779 90 . Signaling induced by IL 27 activates JAK and STAT proteins including JAK1 2 Tyk2 STAT1 2 3 4 and 5 in various cell types Kamiya S. et al. An indispensable role for STAT1 in IL 27 induced T bet expression but not proliferation of naive CD4 T cells. 2004 Sep. 15 173 6 3871 7 Lucas S. et al. IL 27 regulates IL 12 responsiveness of naive CD4 T cells through Stat1 dependent and independent mechanisms. 2003 Dec. 9 100 25 15047 52 . There is clear evidence that JAK STAT proteins are activated in myeloid disorders. STAT1 3 and 5 are frequently activated by leukemogenic oncogenes and are activated in AML Lin T S et al. STAT signaling in the pathogenesis and treatment of leukemias. Oncogene 2000 May 15 19 21 2496 504 Sternberg D. W. Gilliland D. G. The role of signal transducer and activator of transcription factors in leukemogenesis. 2004 Jan. 15 22 2 361 71 . JAK proteins in particular JAK2 are mutationally activated in myeloproliferative disorders Baxter E. J. et al. Acquired mutation of the tyrosine kinase JAK2 in human myeloproliferative disorders. 2005 March 19 25 365 9464 1054 61 James C. et al. A unique clonal JAK2 mutation leading to constitutive signalling causes polycythaemia vera. 2005 Apr. 28 434 7037 1144 8 Kralovics R. et al. A gain of function mutation of JAK2 in myeloproliferative disorders. 2005 Apr. 28 352 17 1779 90 Levine R. L. et al. Activating mutation in the tyrosine kinase JAK2 in polycythemia vera essential thrombocythemia and myeloid metaplasia with myelofibrosis. 2005 April 7 4 387 97 Jones A. V. et al. Widespread occurrence of the JAK2 V617F mutation in chronic myeloproliferative disorders. 2005 Sep. 15 106 6 2162 8 as well as a small fraction of AML Lee J. W. et al. The JAK2 V617F mutation in de novo acute myelogenous leukemias. 2006 Mar. 2 25 9 1434 6 Levine R. L. et al. The JAK2V617F activating mutation occurs in chronic myelomonocytic leukemia and acute myeloid leukemia but not in acute lymphoblastic leukemia or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. 2005 Nov. 15 106 10 3377 9 . The activation state of these proteins was analyzed in 32D cells transformed by IL 27R lanes 2 and 4 and determined that these cells have increased phosphorylated STAT1 STAT5 JAK1 and JAK2 compared to vector control cells as seen in . STAT3 is also activated in 32D cells transformed by IL 27R seen in . Since transformation of 32D cells involves mitogenic signaling as well as inhibition of apoptosis it was determined that ERK1 2 is activated in these cells seen in . These data indicate that IL 27R mediated transformation of 32D cells is associated with activation of JAK STAT and ERK pathways. In addition to STATs ERKs are also commonly activated in AML cells Towatari M. et al. Constitutive activation of mitogen activated protein kinase pathway in acute leukemia cells. 1997 April 11 4 479 84 . Thus transformation by IL 27R results in activation of pathways which are frequently activated in AML. Activation of transforming signals by IL 27R is not associated with the autocrine production of factors that stimulate cell growth or survival data not shown .

In addition a neutralizing antibody to IL 27 did not affect the growth or viability of cells transformed by IL 27R as seen in B and C . IL 27 was incubated in complete growth medium with a control goat IgG antibody a neutralizing polyclonal goat anti IL 27 antibody nAb or a control volume of PBS for 1 h. These IL 27 samples were used to stimulate IL 27R expressing 293T cells for 5 min at a final concentration of 2.5 ng ml IL 27 and 10 mg ml antibody. Cell lysates were prepared and analyzed by immunoblotting for P STAT1 and total STAT. The nAb to IL 27 inhibited IL 27 mediated activation of STAT1. 32D and BaF3 cells were transformed by IL 27R and cultured in the presence of 10 mg ml of the neutralizing IL 27 antibody nAb or a control volume of PBS. Cell growth was measured at 24 and 48 h by MTS assay and relative cell growth is shown normalized to the PBS control at each time point. Viability was determined at 48 h by trypan blue exclusion. The experiment was performed twice with each cell line and a representative experiment is shown. Error bars and indicate standard deviation of triplicate samples. The neutralizing IL 27 antibody does not affect cell growth or viability of IL 27R transformed cells suggesting an autocrine effect of IL 27 is not playing a role in IL 27R mediated transformation.

Since IL 27R was identified as a transforming gene from the leukemic cells of an AML patient this gene was analysed for common expression in AML patients. Bone marrow mononuclear cells were collected from normal and AML patients. Utilizing flow cytometry using an Alexa fluor 647 conjugated anti IL 27R antibody IL 27R was detected on the cell surface of AML cells IL 27R positive cells represented by a dot . Eight out of thirteen AML bone marrow samples tested had 2.5 to ten fold greater number of cells expressing IL 27R ranging from 0.33 to 84.6 than the average observed in normal bone marrow cells ranging from 6.3 to 12.8 seen in and data not shown. Mononuclear cells of bone marrow from normal and AML patients were stained with anti IL 27R extracellular antibody conjugated to Alexa fluor 647. Costaining was performed with CD33 PE and cells were analyzed on a LSRII BD. Biosciences . This suggests IL 27R expression is retained in many AML patients. In all normal and AML samples tested essentially all IL 27R positive cells were CD33 positive suggesting IL 27R is expressed in cells of the myeloid lineage in the bone marrow data not shown.

The role of JAK family kinases in transformation by IL 27R was addressed by culturing 32D IL 27R transformed cells with the pan JAK inhibitor JAK inhibitor I Thompson J. E. et al. Photochemical preparation of a pyridone containing tetracycle a Jak protein kinase inhibitor. 2002 Apr. 22 12 8 1219 23 . Cells transformed with IL 27R were cultured in the presence of 0.1 DMSO or 0.5 M JAK inhibitor I on day 0. The cells were subjected to a trypan blue viability assay indicating that in the presence of JAK inhibitor I the growth of these cells ceases seen in . After 24 hr of JAK inhibitor I treatment the DNA content present in each cell cycle stage was determined and plotted showing JAK inhibitor I induces a G1 as well as a G2 cell cycle arrest and a dramatic decrease in the number of cells in S phase after 24 hr of treatment seen in . Cell viability determined using trypan blue also decreases in the presence of the inhibitor seen in . This is due to the induction of apoptosis as determined by annexin V binding to the cells after 24 hr of treatment with inhibitor as seen in . Transformed 32D cells were cultured in the presence of 0.1 DMSO lane 2 0.5 M lane 3 or 2 M lane 4 JAK inhibitor I. Control 32D cells starved of serum IL 3 in the presence of 0.1 DMSO for three hr is shown in lane 1. Cell lysates were immunoblotted with antibodies that recognize STAT1 STAT3 STAT5 or ERK. JAK inhibitor I not only blocks STAT1 3 and 5 phosphorylation induced by IL 27R but it also prevents ERK1 2 activation seen in . These experiments suggest the kinase activity of JAK family members is required for IL 27R mediated cell growth and inhibition of apoptosis and that JAK activation is required for downstream activation of STATs and ERK1 2.

Within the cytoplasmic region of IL 27R is a Box 1 motif Sprecher C. A. et al. 1998 May 8 246 1 82 90 . This motif is often found in cytokine receptors and functions as an interaction motif with JAK proteins Ihle J. N. Cytokine receptor signalling. 1995 Oct. 19 377 6550 591 4 Tanner J. W. et al. The conserved box 1 motif of cytokine receptors is required for association with JAK kinases. J. Biol. Chem. 1995 Mar. 24 270 12 6523 30 . IL 27R has been shown to interact with JAK1 Takeda A. et al. Cutting edge role of IL 27 WSX 1 signaling for induction of T bet through activation of STAT1 during initial Th1 commitment. 2003 May 15 170 10 4886 90 although JAK2 is also activated following IL 27 stimulation of cells Kamiya S. et al. 2004 Sep. 15 173 6 3871 7 . 32D cells were infected with retrovirus IL 27R or IL 27R containing a mutant Box 1 motif. The cells were treated for drug selection and cell lysates were immunoblotted for IL 27R expression. Mutation of conserved prolines in Box 1 motifs generates a motif that is severely impaired in its ability to bind to JAK proteins Tanner J. W. et al. 1995 Mar. 24 270 12 6523 30 . Cells were infected with empty vector lane 1 wildtype IL 27R lane 2 or IL 27R containing a mutant Box 1 motif lane 3 where residues were mutated within the IL 27R Box 1 motif to alanine seen in . 32D cells stably expressing control vector filled squares wildtype IL 27R WT filled circles or IL 27R Box1mt Box1mt open circles were cultured without IL 3. The total number of viable cells was determined at each time point by trypan blue exclusion. Removal of IL 3 from the growth medium of these cells results in complete cell death of the Box 1 mutant culture in a time course identical to cells expressing a control vector seen in . Thus IL 27R requires its Box 1 motif to transform myeloid cells. Collectively the data suggest IL 27R mediated transformation requires receptor mediated activation of JAK family kinases.

IL 27R requires the gp130 co receptor to signal in response to IL 27 stimulation. BaF3 cells are IL 3 dependent pro B cells that lack gp130 expression Pflanz S. et al. 2004 Feb. 15 172 4 2225 31 Nandurkar H. H. et al. The human IL 11 receptor requires gp130 for signalling demonstration by molecular cloning of the receptor. 1996 Feb. 1 12 3 585 93 . Through gp130 reconstitution studies these cells have been used to show the requirement for gp130 to induce cell signaling in response to IL 27 Pflanz S. et al. 2004 Feb. 15 172 4 2225 31 . To test if gp130 is required for IL 27R mediated transformation of hematopoietic cells BaF3 cells were infected with IL 27R expressing vector and cultured in plated in RPMI 10 FBS in the absence of IL 3. Cell viability was determined using trypan blue. Like 32D cells BaF3 cells are transformed to cytokine independence by IL 27R seen in . This suggests that IL 27R does not require gp130 expression in order to elicit a transforming signal in cells. This also indicates that the transforming activity of IL 27R is not limited to 32D myeloid cells. RT PCR for STAT5 served as a control for cDNA synthesis. RT PCR analyses confirmed the lack of gp130 expression in BaF3 cells seen in . Also gp130 expression was not detected in 32D cells transformed by IL 27R suggesting that gp130 is not required for transformation of these cells and is not upregulated to facilitate IL 27R mediated signaling during transformation seen in . 32D and BaF3 cells expressing a control vector or transformed by IL 27R were incubated in the absence of cytokine Total cell lysates were prepared and analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies that recognize the indicated proteins. Like 32D cells transformed by IL 27R BaF3 cells transformed by IL 27R contain elevated levels of phosphorylated forms of JAK2 STAT5 STAT1 and ERK1 2. Phosphorylated STAT3 is also elevated in BaF3 IL 27R cells but the lower levels of total STAT3 in these cells compared with 32D cells makes this less impressive. Analyses of signaling pathways in BaF3 cells transformed by IL 27R indicate similar JAK STAT and ERK pathways are activated as in 32D cells transformed by IL 27R data not shown.

Finally while IL 27R mediated transformation is gp130 independent these observations still support the paradigm that IL 27 mediated signaling requires gp130 Pflanz S. et al. 2004 Feb. 15 172 4 2225 31 . 32D and BaF3 cells expressing IL 27R were washed of growth factors and incubated in RPMI medium 1640 containing 0.1 BSA for 3 h. Cells were left untreated or stimulated with 100 ng ml IL 27 for 10 min and cell lysates analyzed by immunoblotting for phosphorylated P and total STAT1. IL 27 induced signaling as measured by STAT1 phosphorylation is not observed in IL 27R expressing 32D or BaF3 cells which lack gp130 but is seen in IL 27R expressing 293T cells which express gp130 data not shown. 293T cells were transfected with IL 27R JAK2 V617F and gp130 siRNA as indicated. Two days later cells were stimulated with 100 ng ml IL 27 for the length of time indicated and cell lysates were prepared and analyzed by immunoblotting for P STAT1 total STAT1 and gp130. IL 27 induces activation of STAT1 in 293T cells that express IL 27R and gp130. This activation of STAT1 by IL 27 requires gp130 as gp130 depletion significantly impairs P STAT1 formation. IL 27R JAK2 V617F mediated activation of STAT1 is not enhanced by IL 27. siRNA depletion of gp130 in 293T cells inhibits IL 27 induced phosphorylation of STAT1 data not shown.

Homodimeric type I cytokine receptors have been shown to be required for the full activation of JAK2 V617F Lu X. et al. Expression of a homodimeric type I cytokine receptor is required for JAK2V617F mediated transformation. 2005 Dec. 27 102 52 18962 7 a JAK2 mutant found in a variety of MPDs as well as AML Steensma D. P. et al. The JAK2 V617F activating tyrosine kinase mutation is an infrequent event in both atypical myeloproliferative disorders and myelodysplastic syndromes. 2005 Aug. 15 106 4 1207 9 . It is believed homodimeric cytokine receptors e.g. EpoR provide a scaffold upon which JAK2 V617F proteins can bind and become activated by transphosphorylation Lu X. et al. 2005 Dec. 27 102 52 18962 7 . Such activation of mutant JAK2 is independent of ligand for the receptor. IL 27R is a type I cytokine receptor that normally functions as a heterodimeric partner with gp130 Hunter CA New IL 12 family members IL 23 and IL 27 cytokines with divergent functions. 2005 July 5 7 521 31 . However the ability of IL 27R to transform BaF3 and 32D cells which lack gp130 expression suggests IL 27R does not require gp130 to transform cells. Seen in 293T cells were transfected with control vector lanes 1 and 2 IL 27R WT lanes 3 and 4 IL 27R Box1mt Box1mt lanes 5 and 6 along with wildtype JAK2 WT lanes 1 3 and 5 or JAK2 V617F VF lanes 2 4 and 6 . After transfection cells lysates were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies against JAK STAT or IL 27R proteins. Since the transforming properties of IL 27R are not dependent on its heterodimeric partner gp130 IL 27R functions as homodimeric receptors and activates JAK2 V617F Lu X. et al. Proc. Nat l Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2005 Dec. 27 102 52 18962 7 as well as its downstream target STAT5 in 293T cells seen in . Expression of IL 27R along with wildtype JAK2 did not lead to activation of JAK2 or STAT5. IL 27R containing a mutated JAK binding Box 1 motif as in and B was impaired in activation of JAK2 V617F and STAT5 compared to wildtype IL 27R seen in . Since 293T cells express gp130 activation of JAK2 V617F by IL 27R may require gp130. The transfected 293T cells were further transfected with gp130 siRNA. After transfection cell lysates were analyzed by immunoblotting with antibodies that recognize JAK STAT gp130 or IL 27R. However depletion of gp130 by siRNA had no effect on IL 27R mediated activation of JAK2 V617F and STAT5 demonstrating this effect is gp130 independent seen in . While the inventors could not co immunoprecipitate IL 27R and JAK2 to demonstrate a presumed interaction a complex formation between IL 27R and JAK2 as well as JAK1 was detected in vitro suggesting IL 27R may complex with JAK2 in cells. 32D cells and 293T cells were transfected with empty vector 293T vector JAK2 WT 293T JAK2 WT or JAK2 V617F 293T JAK2 VF and cell lysates incubated with beads containing GST alone or beads containing GST fused to the transmembrane and intracellular region of IL 27R. Bound proteins were eluted with 2 SB and analyzed along with total cell lysates by immunoblotting for JAK1 JAK2 and actin. JAK1 and JAK2 from each cell line complexed with GST IL 27R but not GST alone. The V617F mutation does not alter the in vitro complex formation between JAK2 and IL 27R. Actin immunoblot indicates lack of nonspecific binding of an abundant cellular protein. Together the data suggest that IL 27R functions in an analogous manner as homodimeric type I receptors to activate JAK2 V617F.

Functional genetic screens of genes expressed in the leukemic cells of AML patients were utilized to identify genes that contribute to myeloid cell transformation. This approach uncovered novel cell transforming properties of IL 27R the ligand binding component of the receptor for IL 2. Importantly IL 27R is frequently expressed on the cell surface of a greater number of bone marrow cells of AML patients than of cells of normal bone marrow suggesting it plays a role in leukemogenesis.

IL 27R is a member of the IL 6 IL 12 receptor family Villarino A. V. et al. Understanding the pro and anti inflammatory properties of IL 272004 Jul. 15 173 2 715 20 . A heterodimeric receptor complex of IL 27R 130 is required to activate signaling pathways in response to IL 27 stimulation of cells. This includes activation of JAK1 2 Tyk2 STAT1 2 3 4 and 5. IL 27 regulates various aspects of immune responses including T cell mediated immunity Artis D. et al. The IL 27 receptor WSX 1 is an inhibitor of innate and adaptive elements of type 2 immunity. 2004 Nov. 1 173 9 5626 34 Chen Q. et al. Development of Th1 type immune responses requires the type I cytokine receptor TCCR. 2000 Oct. 19 407 6806 916 20 and can also regulate the activity of B cells mast cells and monocytes Larousserie F. et al. Differential effects of IL 27 on human B cell subsets. 2006 May 15 176 10 5890 7 . Interestingly IL 6 can function as a growth factor for various cancer cells Frassanito M. A. et al. Autocrine interleukin 6 production and highly malignant multiple myeloma relation with resistance to drug induced apoptosis. 2001 Jan. 15 97 2 483 9 Molnar E. L. et al. Biosynthesis of interleukin 6 an autocrine growth factor for melanoma is regulated by melanoma derived histamine. Semin. Cancer Biol. 2000 February 10 1 25 8 including AML blast cells Saily M. et al. Signaling through interleukin 6 receptor supports blast cell proliferation in acute myeloblastic leukemia. 1998 September 61 3 190 6 suggesting signaling by members of this cytokine receptor family can promote oncogenic cell growth. In support of this notion Takeda Takeda A. et al. WSX 1 over expression in CD4 T cells leads to hyperproliferation and cytokine hyperproduction in response to TCR stimulation. 2005 July 17 7 889 97 have observed hyperproliferation of T cells designed to overexpress IL 27R.

This study shows that expression of IL 27R induces IL 3 independent growth of 32D myeloid and BaF3 pro B cells . Since BaF3 cells lack gp130 expression IL 27R mediated transformation is not dependent on gp130. In addition expression of gp130 could not be detected in 32D cells demonstrating IL 27R does not require gp130 to elicit a transforming signal in myeloid cells. 32D cells transformed by IL 27R have constitutively activated JAK STAT family members the JAK binding Box 1 motif of IL 27R is required for its transforming activity and JAK inhibition blocks cell transformation by IL 27R. These data suggest IL 27R mediated activation of JAK family members is critical for its transforming capacity.

JAK family proteins play a major role in myeloid disorders as highlighted by the discovery of the JAK2 V617F point mutation. JAK2 V617F likely contributes to the pathogenesis of various MPDs including polycythemia vera essential thrombocytosis and myelofibrosis. Homodimeric type I cytokine receptors have been shown to be required for JAK2 V617F mediated activation and transformation. Homodimeric receptors including EpoR TpoR and GCSFR support the activation of JAK2 V617F in a ligand independent manner. These receptors likely provide a scaffold upon which mutant JAK2 proteins can interact which is believed to be necessary for the activation of the mutant kinase. While IL 27R is a component of a heterodimeric cytokine receptor with gp130 it is capable of activating JAK2 V617F in cells in a gp130 independent manner . This suggests IL 27R can functionally replace homodimeric cytokine receptors to support the activation of JAK2 V617F.

Recently point mutations in Mpl the gene for the type I cytokine receptor TpoR have been found in JAK2 V617F negative myelofibrosis and essential thrombocythemia patients Pardanani A. D. et al. MPL515 mutations in myeloproliferative and other myeloid disorders a study of 1182 patients. 2006 2006 Nov. 15 108 10 3472 6 Pikman Y. et al. MPLW515L is a novel somatic activating mutation in myelofibrosis with myeloid metaplasia. 2006 July 3 7 e270 . These mutations were identified under the hypothesis that patients who lack a JAK2 mutation may have other mutations that lead to JAK2 activation such as mutations in upstream activators of JAK2 including cytokine receptors. The identification of point mutations in Mpl in myeloid disorders suggests mutations in other type I cytokine receptors may also contribute to diseases of the myeloid system. The data suggests that contribution of heterodimeric cytokine receptors to JAK2 V617F pathogenesis as well as JAK2 V617F negative myeloid disorders should be considered.

This data is the first to suggest a non mutated single chain of a heterodimeric type I cytokine receptor has the ability to transform hematopoietic cells. The data further shows that a single component of a heterodimeric type I cytokine receptor can functionally replace a homodimeric type I receptor as an activator of JAK2 V617F. In light of this the data shows heterodimeric type I cytokine receptors play unappreciated roles in mediating activation of signaling pathways in myeloid disorders and like TpoR such receptors contribute to JAK2 V617F negative MPDs. This contribution occurs through altered expression or mutation of the receptor as seen in patients with MPDs as well as AML.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

While there has been described and illustrated specific embodiments of a wireless test device it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described 

