---

title: Imidazo [1,2-a]pyridine compounds, synthesis thereof, and methods of using same
abstract: Embodiments relate to the field of chemistry and biochemistry, and, more specifically, to imidazopyridine compounds, synthesis thereof, and methods of using same. Disclosed herein are various imidazo[1,2-a]pyhdine compounds and methods of using the novel compounds to treat or prevent tuberculosis in a subject or to inhibit fungal growth on plant species. Other embodiments include methods of synthesizing imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine compounds, such as the disclosed imidazo[1,2-a]pyridine compounds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09309238&OS=09309238&RS=09309238
owner: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
number: 09309238
owner_city: Notre Dame
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101105
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 258 549 filed Nov. 5 2009 entitled IMIDAZO 1 2 a PYRIDINE COMPOUNDS SYNTHESIS THEREOF AND METHODS OF USING SAME the disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant R01 AI 054193 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate to the field of chemistry and biochemistry and more specifically to imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds synthesis thereof and methods of using same.

Worldwide over two billion people are infected with tuberculosis TB and an estimated 14 400 000 people have active cases of TB. Of these active cases 83 are located in Africa South East Asia and the Western Pacific region. The global impact of TB is enormous each year TB kills 1.5 million HIV negative people and 0.2 million HIV positive people. New drug resistant strains emerge each year.

The current treatment for active drug susceptible TB includes a carefully monitored regimen of a cocktail of rifampin isoniazid pyrazinamide and ethambutol for two months followed by an additional four months of rifampin and isoniazid. Multi drug resistant TB infection requires a lengthy course of therapy lasting two years or more with drugs that are expensive and poorly tolerated. Because of their length complexity and expense these regimens represent inadequate therapies for most TB cases. New therapeutics are urgently needed to combat TB infection yet no new drugs have been approved to treat TB in over 40 years.

In addition in a different technical area a large number of fungi are known to grow at the expense of commercially important plants that are essential to human survival. A number of fungicides have been developed for use in protecting both ornamental plants and food crops from pathogenic fungi. While many safe and effective fungicides are currently in use the evolution of pathogenic fungi and the ever increasing pressure to use lower levels of fungicides create the need for new fungicides. Effective antifungal treatments are urgently needed to treat damaging fungal infections in plant species.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous.

As used herein the term alkyl refers to a cyclic branched or straight chain alkyl group containing only carbon and hydrogen and unless otherwise mentioned contains one to twelve carbon atoms. This term may be further exemplified by groups such as methyl ethyl n propyl isopropyl isobutyl t butyl pentyl pivalyl heptyl adamantyl and cyclopentyl. Alkyl groups can either be unsubstituted or substituted with one or more substituents for instance halogen alkyl alkoxy alkylthio trifluoromethyl acyloxy hydroxy mercapto carboxy aryloxy aryloxy aryl arylalkyl heteroaryl amino alkylamino dialkylamino morpholino piperidino pyrrolidin 1 yl piperazin 1 yl or other functionality to form a functionalized alkyl. 

As used herein the term substituted alkyl refers to an alkyl moiety including 1 4 substituents selected from halogen het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl amino cyano nitro OQ SQ S O Q S O Q10 OS O Q C NQ Q C NOQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ C S NQQ N Q C S NQQ C O NQQ C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN S NQC O Q NQC O NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ and SNQQ. Each of the het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from halogen and Q.

As used herein the term cycloalkyl refers to a cyclic alkyl moiety. Unless otherwise stated cycloalkyl moieties include between 3 and 8 carbon atoms.

As used herein the term alkene refers to a hydrocarbon molecule with the general formula CHthat contains one or more double bonds.

As used herein the term alkyne refers to a moiety having the general formula CHcorresponding to carbon chains with a triple carbon carbon bond included.

As used herein the term alcohol refers to any organic compound in which a hydroxyl group OH is bound to a carbon atom of an alkyl or substituted alkyl group. The general formula for simple acyclic alcohols is CHOH.

As used herein the term epoxide refers to any of a class of organic compound cyclic ethers having a three member ring.

As used herein the term ketone refers to an organic compound containing the carbonyl group C O to which other carbon atoms are attached.

As used herein the term ester refers to the product of the reaction between a carboxylic acid and an alcohol.

As used herein the term nitrile refers to any of a class of organic compounds containing the cyano radical CN.

As used herein the term thiol refers to a molecular group that includes a bonded sulfur and hydrogen atom SH .

As used herein the term thioester refers to a compound resulting from the bonding of sulfur with an acyl group with the general formula R S CO R . Thioesters are the product of esterification between a carboxylic acid and a thiol as opposed to an alcohol in regular esters .

As used herein the term sulfide refers to an organic compound containing sulfur bonded to carbon. The term disulfide refers to the structural unit composed of a linked pair of sulfur atoms.

As used herein the term sulfone refers to a chemical compound containing a sulfonyl functional group attached to two carbon atoms. The central sulfur atom is twice double bonded to oxygen and has two further hydrocarbon substituents. The general structural formula is R S O O R where R and R are the organic groups.

As used herein the term sulfoxide refers to a chemical compound containing a sulfinyl functional group attached to two carbon atoms. Sulfoxides can be considered oxidized sulfides.

As used herein the term amine refers to NH NHR or NR. Unless otherwise stated R can be alkyl alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl het or aryl.

As used herein the term urea refers to an organic compound with the chemical formula NH CO or RNHCONHR .

As used herein the term carbamate refers to any of a group of organic compounds sharing a common functional group with the general structure NH CO O . Carbamates are esters of carbamic acid NHCOOH. Since carbamic acid contains nitrogen attached to a carboxyl group it is also an amide. Therefore carbamate esters may have alkyl or aryl groups substituted on the nitrogen or the amide function. For example ethyl carbamate is unsubstituted whereas ethyl N methylcarbamate has a methyl group attached to the nitrogen.

As used herein the term morpholine refers to an organic chemical compound having the chemical formula O CHCH NH. This heterocycle features both amine and ether functional groups. Because of the amine morpholine is a base its conjugate acid is called morpholinium. For example when morpholine is neutralized by hydrochloric acid one obtains the salt morpholinium chloride.

As used herein the term thiomorpholine refers to CHNS and is a heterocyclic compound containing nitrogen and sulfur. It may be considered a thio derivative of morpholine.

As used herein the term piperazine refers to an organic compound that consists of a six member ring containing two opposing nitrogen atoms.

As used herein the term piperidine refers to an organic compound with the molecular formula CH NH. This heterocyclic amine consists of a six member ring containing five methylene units and one nitrogen atom.

As used herein the term acyl refers to any of a group or radical of the form RCO where R is an organic group.

As used herein the term furan refers to any of a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds containing a ring of four carbon atoms and an oxygen atom for instance CHO. As used herein the term nitrofuran refers to a furan ring with a nitro group.

As used herein the term thiophene refers to the heterocyclic compound with the formula CHS. Consisting of a flat five membered ring it is aromatic as indicated by its extensive substitution reactions. Related to thiophene are benzothiophene and dibenzothiophene containing the thiophene ring fused with one and two benzene rings respectively. Compounds analogous to thiophene include furan CHO and pyrrole CHNH .

As used herein the term imidazole refers to an organic compound with the formula CHN. This aromatic heterocyclic is classified as an alkaloid. Imidazole refers to the parent compound whereas imidazoles are a class of heterocycles with similar ring structure but varying substituents. A nitroimidazole is an imidazole derivative that contains a nitro group.

As used herein the term oxazole refers to a five member heterocycle having three carbon atoms one oxygen atom one nitrogen atom and two double bonds the 1 3 isomer is aromatic.

As used herein the tem oxazoline refers to an unsaturated heterocyclic compound containing a five member ring two double bonds one nitrogen and one oxygen atom and any derivative of this compound.

As used herein the term thiazole refers to any of a class of unsaturated heterocyclic compounds containing a ring of three carbon atoms a sulfur and an nitrogen atom for instance the simplest one CHSN.

As used herein the term thiazoline refers to an unsaturated heterocyclic compound containing a five member ring two double bonds one nitrogen and one sulfur atom and any derivative of this compound.

As used herein the term triazole refers to either one of a pair of isomeric chemical compounds with molecular formula CHN having a five member ring of two carbon atoms and three nitrogen atoms.

As used herein the term pyridine refers to any of a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds containing a ring of five carbon atoms and a nitrogen atom for instance the simplest one CHN.

As used herein the term pyrazine refers to a diazine in which the two nitrogen atoms are in the para position.

As used herein the term naphthalene refers to an aromatic white solid hydrocarbon with formula CHand the structure of two fused benzene rings.

As used herein the term diketopiperazine refers to a class of cyclic organic compounds that result from peptide bonds between two amino acids to form a lactam. They are the smallest possible cyclic peptides.

As used herein the term quinoline refers to any of a class of aromatic heterocyclic compounds containing a benzene ring fused with a ring of five carbon atoms and a nitrogen atom for instance the simplest one CHN. Isoquinoline also known as benzo c pyridine or 2 benzanine is a heterocyclic aromatic organic compound. It is a structural isomer of quinoline. Isoquinoline and quinoline are benzopyridines which are composed of a benzene ring fused to a pyridine ring. In a broader sense the term isoquinoline is used to make reference to isoquinoline derivatives.

As used herein the term oxazolidinone refers to a class of heterocyclic organic compounds containing both nitrogen and oxygen in a 5 member ring.

As used herein the term heterocyclic refers to organic compounds containing at least one atom of carbon and at least one element other than carbon such as sulfur oxygen or nitrogen within a ring structure. These structures may comprise either simple aromatic rings or non aromatic rings. Each mono cyclic ring may be aromatic saturated or partially unsaturated. A bi cyclic ring system may include a mono cyclic ring containing one or more heteroatom fused with a cycloalkyl or aryl group. A bi cyclic ring system may also include a mono cyclic ring containing one or more heteroatom fused with another mono cyclic ring system.

Examples of heterocyclics include but are not limited to pyridine thiophene furan pyrazoline pyrimidine 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 2 pyrimidinyl 4 pyrimidinyl 5 pyrimidinyl 3 pyrazinyl 3 pyridazinyl 4 pyridazinyl 4 oxo 2 imidazolyl 1 2 4 oxadiazole 1 3 4 oxadiazole 4 pyridazinyl 3 pyrazinyl 4 oxo 2 imidazolyl 2 imidazolyl 4 imidazolyl 3 isoxazolyl 4 isoxazolyl 5 isoxazolyl 3 pyrazolyl 4 pyrazolyl 5 pyrazolyl 2 oxazolyl 4 oxazolyl 4 oxo 2 oxazolyl 5 oxazolyl 1 2 3 oxathiazole 1 2 3 oxadiazole 1 2 5 oxadiazole 2 thiazolyl 5 thiazolyl 3 isothiazole 4 isothiazole 5 isothiazole 2 furanyl 3 furanyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 2 pyrrolyl 3 pyrrolyl 3 isopyrrolyl 4 isopyrrolyl 5 isopyrrolyl 1 2 3 oxathiazole 1 oxide 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 5 oxo 1 2 4 oxadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 3 yl 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 3 oxo 1 2 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 2 oxo 1 3 4 thiadiazol 5 yl 1 2 4 triazol 3 yl 1 2 4 triazol 5 yl 1 2 3 4 tetrazol 5 yl 5 oxazolyl 3 isothiazolyl 4 isothiazolyl 5 isothiazolyl 1 3 4 oxadiazole 4 oxo 2 thiazolinyl 5 methyl 1 3 4 thiadiazol 2 yl thiazoledione 1 2 3 4 thiatriazole 1 2 4 dithiazolone phthalimide quinolinyl morpholinyl benzimidazolyl benzo d thiazolyl benzo d oxazolyl diazinyl triazinyl quinolinyl quinoxalinyl naphthyridinyl azetidinyl pyrrolidinyl hydantoinyl oxathiolanyl dioxolanyl imidazolidinyl azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptyl 2 methyl 1 4 dioxa 8 azaspiro 4.5 decane 2 3 dimethyl 1 4 dioxa 8 azaspiro 4.5 decane 3 methyl 1 5 dioxa 9 azaspiro 5.5 undecane and 2 4 dimethyl 1 5 dioxa 9 azaspiro 5.5 undecane.

As used herein the term heteroaryl refers to a mono or bicyclic het in which one or more cyclic ring is aromatic.

As used herein the term substituted heteroaryl refers to a heteroaryl moiety substituted with one or more functional groups selected from halogen alkyl hydroxyl amino alkoxy cyano and nitro.

As used herein the term substituted aryl refers to an aryl moiety having 1 3 substituents selected from halogen het alkyl substituted alkyl alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl aryl cyano nitro OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q C NOQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q NQC O Q N Q C S NQQ N Q C S Q NQC O NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ and SNQQ. The het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl alkenyl alkynyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents selected from halogen and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl het cycloalkenyl and aryl. The het cycloalkyl cycloalkenyl and aryl being optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents selected from halo and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from H halogen alkyl aryl cycloalkyl and het. The alkyl aryl cycloalkyl and het being optionally substituted with 1 3 substituents independently selected from halogen nitro cyano S 0 and Q.

Each Qis independently selected from Q OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q SC O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C O NQQ S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN O S NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S Q NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ NO and SNQQ.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl phenyl or naphthyl each optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from F Cl Br I OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ NO C O NQQ C S NQQ CN NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S O NQQ and NQS O Q. The alkyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl being further optionally substituted with O or S.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl cycloalkyl heteroaryl phenyl or naphthyl each optionally substituted with 1 4 substituents independently selected from F Cl Br I OQ SQ S O Q S O Q OS O Q C NQ Q S O N S O Q S O N S Q SC O Q NQQ C O Q C S Q C O OQ OC O Q C S NQQ C O C Q OC O Q CN NQC O Q NQC S Q NQC O NQQ NQC S NQQ S O NQQ NQS O Q NQS O Q NQSQ NO and SNQQ. The alkyl cycloalkyl and cycloalkenyl being further optionally substituted with O or S.

Each Qis independently selected from H alkyl and cycloalkyl. The alkyl and cycloalkyl optionally including 1 3 halogens.

Embodiments of the present disclosure provide novel imidazopyridines for instance imidazo 1 2 a pyridines. Certain embodiments are directed to compounds and methods for the treatment and prevention of tuberculosis TB . Other embodiments are directed to compounds and methods for inhibiting fungal growth on plant species. In still other embodiments methods are provided for the synthesis of the disclosed imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds.

In embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds of this disclosure may be useful in treating or preventing tuberculosis in a subject. The in vitro activity of disclosed compounds may be assessed by standard testing procedures for instance in H37Rv TB screens.

In embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds described herein may be useful for treating for instance ameliorating or preventing multi drug resistant MDR and non MDR TB in a subject. In an embodiment a compound may be administered to a subject locally or systemically. In embodiments an imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound may be administered parenterally for instance subcutaneously intravenously or intramuscularly or it may be administered orally or by inhalation. An imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound may be used alone or in combination with other anti tuberculosis agents. In an embodiment an imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound may be administered in varying concentrations depending upon the infection s susceptibility to the compound being administered the extent of the disease whether the infection is latent or active whether the infection is drug resistant and the general health of the subject.

In an embodiment imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may be incorporated into a pharmaceutical composition. Embodiments of the present disclosure encompass any racemic optically active polymorphic tautomeric or stereoisomeric form or mixture thereof of a compound of the disclosure which possesses the useful properties described herein.

In cases where compounds are sufficiently basic or acidic to form stable nontoxic acid or base salts use of the compounds as pharmaceutically acceptable salts may be appropriate. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable salts within the scope of embodiments herein include organic acid addition salts formed with acids which form a physiological acceptable anion and inorganic salts.

Pharmaceutical compositions in accordance with embodiments of the disclosure may be prepared by combining the disclosed compounds with a solid or liquid pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally with pharmaceutically acceptable adjuvants and excipients employing standard and conventional techniques. Solid form compositions include powders tablets dispersible granules capsules cachets and suppositories. A solid carrier may be at least one substance that may also function as a diluent flavoring agent solubilizer lubricant suspending agent binder tablet disintegrating agent and encapsulating agent. Inert solid carriers include magnesium carbonate magnesium stearate talc sugar lactose pectin dextrin starch gelatin cellulosic materials low melting wax cocoa butter and the like. Liquid form compositions include solutions suspensions and emulsions. For example there may be provided solutions of the compounds disclosed herein dissolved in water and water propylene glycol systems optionally containing suitable conventional coloring agents flavoring agents stabilizers and or thickening agents.

In an embodiment a pharmaceutical composition may be provided employing conventional techniques in unit dosage form containing effective or appropriate amounts of one or more active component. In embodiments the quantity of active component compound in a pharmaceutical composition and unit dosage form thereof may be varied or adjusted widely depending upon the particular application the potency of the particular compound and the desired concentration. In an embodiment the quantity of active component may range from 0.5 to 90 by weight of the composition.

In embodiments in therapeutic use for treating ameliorating preventing or combating TB in subjects the compounds or pharmaceutical compositions thereof may be administered orally parenterally and or by inhalation at a dosage to obtain and maintain a concentration or blood level of active component in the animal undergoing treatment that is therapeutically effective. In an embodiment such a therapeutically effective amount dosage of active component may be in the range of from about 0.1 to about 100 mg kg for instance from about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg of body weight day. It is to be understood that the dosages may vary depending upon the requirements of the patient the severity of the infection the particular mycobacterial species whether the infection is latent or active the drug resistance of the strain the duration of the infection being treated and the particular compound being used. Also it is to be understood that the initial dosage administered may be increased beyond the above upper level in order to rapidly achieve the desired blood level or the initial dosage may be smaller than the optimum and the daily dosage may be progressively increased during the course of treatment depending on the particular situation. If desired the daily dose also may be divided into multiple doses for administration for instance two to four times per day.

In an embodiment an initial imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound was provided and tested as an exemplary member of the new imidazo 1 2 a pyridine class of anti tuberculosis agents disclosed herein. Such compound is identified below as compound ND 8454 and the compound s structure is shown in Table 1. Imidazo 1 2 a pyridine is a simple bicyclic compound with a bridgehead nitrogen atom. This class of molecules is unrepresented within the TB literature and the scaffold is very attractive because of the low cost of starting materials and the ease with which potent 

Many of the existing clinical candidates for TB therapeutics are derivatives of existing scaffolds for instance moxifloxacin and gatifloxacin see Table 1 which results in drugs that are much more prone to emerging resistance. Other clinical candidates are complex compounds that are difficult and costly to manufacture for example anti TB candidates TMC207 PA 824 OPC 67683 and LL 3858 see Table 1 .

In contrast ND 8454 N benzyl 2 7 dimethylimidazo 1 2 a pyridine 3 carboxamide the initial hit based on the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine scaffold has an in vitro activity against H37Rv TB comparable to the current clinical candidates MIC 0.08 g mL or 286 nM and no observed toxicity to VERO or HeLa cells 128 and 50 M respectively .

In accordance with various embodiments Table 2 illustrates the potency of several exemplary compounds against several individual strains of single drug resistant TB.

In accordance with various embodiments Table 3 illustrates the potency of several exemplary compounds against several strains of multi drug resistant MDR TB.

In embodiments the exemplary compounds described above may be synthesized according to the following general procedures. ND 8454 for example can be made in four synthetic steps from readily available inexpensive reagents. To evaluate the potential availability and affordability of making this compound on a kilogram scale the cost to scale up ND 8454 using the following exemplary procedure was evaluated see Scheme 1 below .

In this specific example of synthesis of ND 8454 a solution of 2 amino 4 picoline 10.0 g 91.5 mmol and ethyl 2 chloroacetoacetate 7.93 g 45.8 mmol were dissolved in 92 mL of 1 2 dimethoxyethane DME and heated for 36 h at reflux. The reaction mixture was filtered and solids 2 amino 4 picoline hydrochloride salt was collected and washed with hexanes. The filtrate liquor was concentrated in vacuo and residue was dissolved in CHCland washed with 5 acetic acid solution 2 and brine. The organic phase was collected dried over sodium sulfate NaSO filtered and then concentrated in vacuo. Crude material obtained was purified by silica gel column chromatography with a 20 ethyl acetate CHClsolvent system to give 7.8 g 78 of ethyl 2 7 dimethylimidazo 1 2 a pyridine 3 carboxylate as a tan solid. mp 59 61 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDCl 9.14 d J 7.1 Hz 1H 7.34 s 1H 6.78 dd J 7.1 1.7 Hz 1H 4.40 q J 7.1 7.1 7.1 Hz 2H 2.66 s 3H 2.42 s 3H 1.42 t J 7.1 7.1 Hz 3H . HRMS EI M 1 calcd. for CHNO 219.1155 found 219.1128. Retention time 1.4 minutes mobile phase 60 water acetonitrile .

The ethyl 2 7 dimethylimidazo 1 2 a pyridine 3 carboxylate 6.4 g 29.3 mmol was dissolved in 75 mL of ethanol 95 1 M LiOH 60 mL 60 mmol was added and reaction was heated to reflux for 36 hours. The resulting solution was concentrated to dryness and then made acidic pH 2 3 with the addition of 4 N HCl resulting solids were collected by filtration and rigorously dried to give 4.6 grams 82 of 2 7 dimethylimidazo 1 2 a pyridine 3 carboxylic acid an off white solid. mp 180 183 C. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 9.52 d J 7.1 Hz 1H 7.73 td J 1.8 0.9 0.9 Hz 1H 7.48 dd J 7.1 1.3 Hz 1H 2.81 s 3H 2.63 s 3H . HRMS EI M 1 calcd. for CHNO 191.0815 found 191.0837. Retention time 0.6 0.7 minutes mobile phase 60 water acetonitrile .

The 2 7 dimethylimidazo 1 2 a pyridine 3 carboxylic acid 2.8 grams 14 mmol was partly dissolved in 35 mL anhydrous CHCland oxalyl chloride 3.3 mL 39 mmol was added followed by catalytic 20 L N N dimethylforamide DMF .

The reaction was stirred under argon at room temperature for 4 hours. The clear orange solution was concentrated to dryness and the resulting acid chloride 3.6 grams 14 mmol yellow solid was dissolved in 35 mL anhydrous CHCl. Triethylamine 5.9 mL 41.9 mmol and benzylamine 1.8 mL 16.7 mmol were added slowly. The reaction was heated to 50 C. under argon for 16 hours. The reaction was then concentrated to dryness and the resulting solid was dissolved in ethyl acetate EtOAc and washed with saturated sodium bicarbonate solution 2 and brine washed.

The organics were collected and dried over NaSO the drying agent was filtered off and the organics were concentrated down to an oil which crystallized upon standing. The solid was purified through a silica gel column eluting with a gradient of 1 10 EtOAc CHCl to 10 1 EtOAc CHCl . 2.75 grams of N benzyl 2 7 dimethylimidazo 1 2 a pyridine 3 carboxamide ND 8454 70 was obtained as an off white solid. mp 166 167 C. H NMR 500 MHz CDCl 9.30 d J 7.1 Hz 1H 7.39 7.28 m 5H 7.25 s 1H 6.75 dd J 7.2 1.8 Hz 1H 6.05 bs 1H NH 4.69 d J 5.7 Hz 2H 2.65 s 3H 2.41 s 3H . C NMR 126 MHz CDCl 161.52 146.54 145.36 138.30 128.84 127.67 127.61 127.35 127.31 115.72 115.05 43.42 21.34 16.83. HRMS EI M 1 calcd. for CHNO 280.1444. found 280.1480. Retention time 0.8 1.1 minutes mobile phase 60 water acetonitrile .

In another embodiment imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may be synthesized according to the general procedures shown in Scheme 2 below.

Embodiments of the present disclosure also provide methods for treating or preventing TB infection in a subject using compounds described herein. As used herein the terms tuberculosis and TB refer to mycobacterial infection a common and often deadly infectious disease usually caused by . Tuberculosis usually attacks the lungs as pulmonary TB but can also affect the central nervous system the lymphatic system the circulatory system the genitourinary system the gastrointestinal system bones joints and even the skin. Other mycobacteria such as and also cause tuberculosis but these species are less common in humans.

The classic symptoms of tuberculosis are a chronic cough with blood tinged sputum fever night sweats and weight loss. Infection of other organs causes a wide range of symptoms. In some embodiments a tuberculosis diagnosis may be made by radiology commonly chest X rays a tuberculin skin test and blood tests as well as microscopic examination and microbiological culture of bodily fluids. Tuberculosis treatment is difficult and normally requires long courses of multiple antibiotics and antibiotic resistance is a growing problem.

Approximately one third of the world s population is infected with . However most of these cases will not develop the full blown disease asymptomatic latent infection is most common. About one in ten of these latent infections will eventually progress to active disease which if left untreated kills more than half of its victims. In 2004 mortality and morbidity statistics included 14.6 million chronic active cases 8.9 million new cases and 1.6 million deaths mostly in developing countries. In addition a rising number of people in the developed world are contracting tuberculosis because of compromised immune systems from immunosuppressive drugs substance abuse or AIDS. The distribution of tuberculosis is not uniform worldwide with about 80 of the population in many Asian and African countries testing positive in tuberculin tests while only 5 10 of the US population tests positive. It is estimated that the US has 25 000 new cases of tuberculosis each year 40 of which occur in immigrants from countries where tuberculosis is endemic.

An estimated 75 of active TB cases involve pulmonary TB. Symptoms include chest pain coughing up blood a productive prolonged cough for more than three weeks fever chills night sweats appetite loss weight loss pallor and often a tendency to fatigue very easily. In the other 25 of active cases the infection moves from the lungs causing extrapulmonary tuberculosis. This occurs more commonly in immunosuppressed persons and young children. Extrapulmonary infection sites include the pleura in tuberculosis pleurisy the central nervous system in meningitis the lymphatic system in scrofula of the neck the genitourinary system in urogenital tuberculosis and bones and joints in Pott s disease of the spine. An especially serious form is disseminated TB more commonly known as miliary tuberculosis. Although extrapulmonary TB is not contagious it may co exist with pulmonary TB which is contagious.

The primary cause of TB is an aerobic Gram positive bacterium. In addition the complex includes three other TB causing mycobacteria and is not widespread but in parts of Africa it is a significant cause of tuberculosis. was once a common cause of tuberculosis but the introduction of milk pasteurization has largely eliminated this as a public health problem in developed countries. is mostly seen in immunodeficient people although it is possible that the prevalence of this pathogen has been underestimated.

Other known pathogenic mycobacteria include and . The last two are part of the non tuberculous mycobacteria NTM group. Nontuberculous mycobacteria cause neither TB nor leprosy but they do cause pulmonary diseases resembling TB.

Specific gene polymorphisms in IL12B have been linked to tuberculosis susceptibility. Additionally patients with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of contracting tuberculosis and they have a poorer response to treatment possibly due to poorer drug absorption. Other conditions that increase risk include IV drug abuse recent TB infection or a history of inadequately treated TB chest X ray suggestive of previous TB showing fibrotic lesions and nodules silicosis prolonged corticosteroid therapy and other immunosuppressive therapy head and neck cancers hematologic and reticuloendothelial diseases such as leukemia and Hodgkin s disease end stage kidney disease intestinal bypass or gastrectomy chronic malabsorption syndromes vitamin D deficiency and low body weight. Furthermore some drugs including rheumatoid arthritis drugs that work by blocking tumor necrosis factor alpha raise the risk of activating a latent infection due to the importance of this cytokine in the immune defense against TB. In embodiments a subject having one or more of these risk factors may be a suitable candidate for effective therapies that treat or prevent TB.

As discussed above compounds in accordance with embodiments of the present disclosure are designed to exhibit anti TB activity. Methods are provided in some embodiments for treating or preventing tuberculosis in a subject. Briefly the method includes selecting a subject in need of treatment and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound having the formula 

In embodiments when screened in vitro it was apparent that the imidazo 1 2 a pyridines had advantages over the other anti TB heterocycles evaluated previously. For instance while levels of potency of the ester analogs notably benzyl and ethyl were good in various heterocyclic series oxazolines oxazoles thiazolines thiazoles and imidazo 1 2 a pyridines these esters were metabolically labile. While the corresponding amides were anticipated to be more stable their anti TB activity was dramatically decreased except for the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine benzyl amides NHCHPh which were more potent. In addition the stability of the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine analogs in rat dog and human microsomes were vastly improved 80 remained after a 15 minute incubation . Furthermore unlike the other heterocyclic scaffolds the imidazo 1 2 a pyridines were remarkably metabolically stable in a simulated gastric juice assay 90 remaining after a 15 minute incubation .

In other embodiments imidazo 1 2 a pyridine analogs were generated and optimized using in vitro SAR studies to improve potency metabolism organism selectivity and formulation. Briefly a set of imidazo 1 2 a pyridine analogs were prepared and subjected to metabolism and organism selectivity profiling. shows the SAR of particular imidazo 1 2 a pyridine agents and some trends observed from screening the compounds. See for the structures of the compounds referenced in . The VERO assay is a toxicity assay that measures the viability of African Green Monkey epithelial kidney cells when treated with the compounds being studied. The other assays include three H37Rv TB screens that differ only in the media used GAS for glycerol alanine salts with ferric ammonium citrate GAST for glycerol alanine salts with Tween 80 instead of ferric ammonium citrate and 7H12 which is a non glycerol containing medium. The microsomes were derived from male Sprague Dawley rats and contained drug metabolizing enzymes such as cytochrome P450 flavin monooxygenases and UDP glucuronyl transferases. The simulated gastric juices assay contained pepsins and was run at pH 1.2.

In embodiments compounds ND 8448 ND 8451 and ND 8454 were all screened against a panel of diverse organisms which included four Gram positive strains MRSA VRE two Gram negative strains a yeast and fungi and as well as five cancer cell lines Huvec K 562 HeLa PC 3 and MCF 7 and the VERO cell line to check for mammalian toxicity. Remarkably these three compounds were inactive against all of the control organisms studied.

In an embodiment an evaluation may involve screening of the imidazo 1 2 a pyridines against H37Rv TB in at least two different assay media for instance the GAST glycerol alanine salts with Tween 80 and 7H12 non glycerol containing medium to ensure that potency is not adversely affected by either glycerol or Tween and is not carbon source dependant. Compounds that have MIC s less than 5 M are then screened in the VERO cellular toxicity and LORA TB recovery assay an assay designed to simulate the latent TB state . The most impressive compounds that have outstanding potency MIC128 M in the VERO assay are then evaluated in rat microsomes and simulated gastric juices.

In an embodiment compounds ND 8454 ND 8667 and ND 9361 were all screened against a panel of extreme drug resistant TB strains HRESPOCTh HREPKOTh HRESPO and then cross screened against . As illustrated below in Table 4 all three drugs were effective against the extreme drug resistant XDR strains.

In another embodiment compounds ND 8454 ND 9652 ND 9758 ND 9872 ND 9902 ND 9903 and ND 9965 were screened against several non tubercular mycobacteria NTM . As illustrated below in Table 5 all seven drugs were effective against BCG and and other non tubercular mycobacterial strains to a lesser extent indicating that the imidazo 1 2 a pyridines are selective anti mycobacterial agents.

As discussed above embodiments provide a method for treating or preventing TB. The method includes selecting a subject in need of treatment and administering to the subject a therapeutically effective amount of at least one compound disclosed herein. As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount includes a quantity of a specified compound such as one of the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds disclosed herein for instance compound ND 8454 required to achieve a desired effect in a subject being treated. For instance this may be the amount necessary to treat a mycobacterial infection such as a or infection in a subject or a dose sufficient to prevent advancement or to cause regression of a disease such as TB or that is capable of relieving symptoms caused by a disease pulmonary or extrapulmonary symptoms. In some embodiments a therapeutically effective amount of an imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound is a dose that is sufficient to inhibit the progression from latent TB to active TB or to prevent re activation of a TB infection.

Various dosage ranges and administration schedules may be adopted for therapeutic treatment of TB in animal and human subjects with the anti TB agents disclosed herein. In an embodiment such a therapeutically effective amount of active component may be in the range of about 0.1 to about 100 mg kg or more preferably about 0.1 to about 10 mg kg of body weight day. Such dosages may vary depending upon the requirements of the patient the severity of the disease the duration of the disease whether the infection is latent or active the mycobacterial strain whether the exhibits drug resistance or the particular symptoms for instance pulmonary or extrapulmonary of the TB being treated and the particular compound being used. In some embodiments the anti TB agent may be administered in conjunction with one or more other anti TB agents such as rifampin isoniazid pyrazinamide ethambutol streptomycin ethionamide kanamycin cycloserine thioacetazone p aminosalicylic acid or ciprofloxacin.

In some embodiments the anti TB agent for instance ND 8454 may be administered systemically whereas in other embodiments the anti TB agent may be administered locally. An effective dose of a disclosed anti TB agent may be administered systemically in a variety of ways. For instance systemic administration may be by oral administration or by injection for instance intravenous intramuscular or subcutaneous injection. Local for instance pulmonary administration may include inhalational administration. By way of example one method of administration to the lungs of an individual may be by inhalation through the use of a nebulizer or inhaler. For example the anti TB agent may be formulated in an aerosol or particulate and drawn into the lungs using a standard nebulizer well known to those skilled in the art.

An effective amount of an anti TB compound may be administered in a single dose or in multiple doses for example daily or every four eight or twelve hours during a course of treatment. In one embodiment a therapeutically effective amount of an anti TB compound may be administered as a single pulse dose as a bolus dose or as pulse doses administered over time. In specific non limiting examples pulse doses of an anti TB compound may be administered during the course of a day during the course of a week during the course of a month or over the course of years.

In other embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds disclosed herein are used to inhibit fungal growth on plant species. In embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound may have the formula 

Other embodiments are methods for controlling a fungal infestation. The methods may include for instance the steps of providing at least one imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound as described above and applying the compound to a surface having or adjacent to a fungal infection or infestation. In embodiments the composition may include at least one additional compound selected from the group consisting of insecticides fungicides and herbicides. Also disclosed are methods of controlling a fungal infestation. In embodiments the methods may include the steps of providing at least one imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound as described herein and applying the compound to a surface having or adjacent to a fungal infection or infestation.

In embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds described herein may have a significant fungicidal effect particularly in agricultural applications for instance for use with agricultural crops and horticultural plants. In various embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds described herein may be used to effectively control a variety of undesirable fungi that infect useful plant crops. In specific non limiting examples antifungal activity has been demonstrated for example against the following representative fungi species brown rust of wheat PUCCRT and blotch of wheat SEPTTR .

Referring to exemplary imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds were tested in order to measure their ability to prevent fungal infections. illustrates the structures of the compounds referenced in . In embodiments each exemplary compound s preventative properties were determined by treating a susceptible test plant with the exemplary imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound and then exposing the plant to fungal spores. The antifungal activity of the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds was determined by determining the extent to which the fungal disease was controlled. The compounds were formulated at rates of 200 ppm in 10 vol. acetone plus 90 vol. Triton X water deionized water 99.99 wt 0.01 wt Triton X100 giving a formulated test compound. Formulated test compounds were applied to plants using a turntable sprayer fitted with two opposing air atomization nozzles that delivered approximately 1500 L ha of spray volume.

All test plants were inoculated with spores of the fungus for example PUCCRT or SEPTTR the day after treatment with the putative fungicide. Next the plants were incubated in an environment conducive to disease development. Disease severity was evaluated 7 to 25 days later depending on the speed of disease development.

In a specific non limiting example wheat plants variety Yuma were grown from seed in a soil less peat based potting mixture Metromix until the seedlings had a fully expanded first leaf. Each pot contained 3 8 seedlings. These plants were sprayed until wet with the formulated test compounds. On the following day the leaves were inoculated with an aqueous spore suspension of and the plants were kept in high humidity overnight to permit the spores to germinate and to infect the leaf. The plants were then transferred to a greenhouse until disease developed on untreated control plants. These tests were carried out at a level of 200 ppm see e.g. .

In another specific non limiting example wheat plants variety Yuma were grown from seed in a 50 pasteurized soil 50 soil less mix until the seedlings had a fully expanded first leaf. Each pot contained 3 10 seedlings. These plants were sprayed until wet with the formulated test compound. On the following day the leaves were inoculated with an aqueous spore suspension of and the plants were kept in high humidity one day in a dark dew chamber followed by three days in a lighted dew chamber to permit the spores to germinate and to infect the leaf. The plants were then transferred to a greenhouse until disease developed on untreated control plants. These tests were carried out at a level of 200 ppm see e.g. .

In embodiments disease control was determined by visually estimating the percent disease severity in treated and untreated pots 7 to 24 days after inoculation depending on speed of disease development. Evaluations were typically made 7 or 8 days after inoculation for PUCCRT and 18 to 22 days after inoculation for SEPTTR. Percent disease control DC was calculated by DC 1 Disease severity treated disease severity untreated 100.

In various embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds described herein may be applied in the form of a composition comprising one or more imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds with a phytologically acceptable carrier. The compositions may include for example concentrated formulations that are dispersed in water or another liquid for application or dust or granular formulations that are applied without further treatment. The compositions may be prepared according to procedures which are conventional in the agricultural chemical art.

The dispersions in which the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds are applied may be in some examples aqueous suspensions or emulsions prepared from concentrated formulations of the compounds. Such water soluble water suspendable or emulsifiable formulations are either solids usually known as wettable powers or liquids usually known as emulsifiable concentrates or aqueous suspensions. In embodiments any material to which the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds can be added may be used provided it yields the desired utility without significantly interfering with the fungicidal activity of the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds.

In embodiments wettable powders which may be compacted to form water dispersible granules may include an intimate mixture of the active imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound an inert carrier and one or more surfactants. The concentration of the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound may be for example from about 10 percent weight weight w w to about 90 w w and may be from about 25 to about 75 w w in particular examples. In the preparation of exemplary wettable powder compositions the active ingredients can be compounded with any finely divided solid such as pyrophyllite talc chalk gypsum Fuller s earth bentonite attapulgite starch casein gluten montmorillonite clays diatomaceous earth purified silicate or the like. In such examples the finely divided carrier may be ground or mixed with the toxicant in a volatile organic solvent. Specific non limiting examples of effective surfactants for instance comprising from about 0.5 to about 10 of the wettable powder that can be used in combination with the inventive compounds include sulfonated lignins naphthalenesulfonates alkylbenzenesulfonates alyl sulfates and non ionic surfactants such as ethylene oxide adducts of alkyl phenols.

In various embodiments emulsifiable concentrates of the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds disclosed herein may comprise a convenient concentration such as from about 10 to about 50 w w in a suitable liquid. Briefly one exemplary method for creating these emulsions includes the step of dissolving the compound in an inert carrier for instance either a water miscible solvent or a mixture of water immiscible organic solvents and emulsifiers . In specific embodiments the concentrates may be diluted with water and oil to form spray mixtures in the form of oil in water emulsions. Specific non limiting examples of organic solvents that may be used include aromatics especially the high boiling naphthalenic and olefinic portions of petroleum such as heavy aromatic naphtha and the like. In other embodiments other organic solvents may be used such as terpenic solvents for instance rosin derivatives aliphatic ketones such as cyclohexanone and complex alcohols such as 1 ethoxyethanol.

In some embodiments emulsifiers may be used for instance various non ionic anionic cationic and amphoteric emulsifiers or a blend of two or more emulsifiers. Specific non limiting examples of non ionic emulsifiers useful in preparing the emulsifiable concentrates include the polyalkylene glycol ethers and condensation products of alkyl and aryl phenols aliphatic alcohols aliphatic amines or fatty acids with ethylene oxide propylene oxides such as the ethoxylated alkyl phenols and carboxylic esters solubilised with polyol or polyoxyalkylene. Specific non limiting examples of cationic emulsifiers include quaternary ammonium compounds and fatty amine salts. Specific non limiting examples of nionic emulsifiers include the oil soluble salts e.g. calcium of alkylaryl sulfonic acids oil soluble salts of sulphated polyglycol ethers and appropriate salts of phosphated polyglycol ether.

Specific non limiting examples of organic liquids that may be employed in preparing the emulsifiable concentrates include aromatic liquids such as xylene propyl benzene fractions or mixed naphtlalene fractions mineral oils substituted aromatic organic liquids such as dioctyl phthalate kerosene and dialkyl amides of various fatty acids particularly the dimethyl amides of fatty glycols and glycol derivatives such as the n butyl ether ethyl ether or methyl ether of triethylene glycol. In some embodiments mixtures of two or more organic liquids may be employed in the preparation of the emulsifiable concentrate. Specific non limiting examples organic liquids that may be used include xylene and propyl benzene fractions. In specific non limiting examples surface active dispersing agents may be used in liquid compositions in the amount of from about 0.1 weight wt. to about 20 wt. of the combined weight of the dispersing agent and active compound. In embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compositions may also contain other compatible additives for example plant growth regulators and other biologically active compounds used in agriculture.

According to various embodiments aqueous suspensions may include suspensions of water insoluble imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds dispersed in an aqueous vehicle at a concentration in the range of from about 5 to about 50 w w. In one specific non limiting example a suspension may be prepared by finely grinding the compound and vigorously mixing it into a vehicle including water and surfactants as discussed above. In embodiments inert ingredients such as inorganic salts and synthetic or natural gums may also be added for instance to increase the density and viscosity of the aqueous vehicle. In particular embodiments it is effective to grind and mix the compound at the same time by preparing the aqueous mixture and homogenizing it in an implement such as a sand mill ball mill or piston type homogenizer.

In other embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may be applied as granular compositions which are particularly useful when applying the composition to the soil. Specific non limiting examples of granular compositions may include from about 0.5 w w of to about 10 w w of the compound dispersed in an inert carrier that includes entirely or in large part a coarsely divided attapulgite bentonite diatomite clay or a similar inexpensive substance. Such compositions may be prepared for example by dissolving the compound in a suitable solvent and applying it to a granular carrier which has been preformed to the appropriate particle size for instance in the range of from about 0.5 to about 3 mm. In various embodiments such compositions may also be formulated by making a dough or paste of the carrier and compound and crushing and drying to obtain the desired granular particle.

In other embodiments dusts that include the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may be prepared by intimately mixing the compound in powdered form with a suitable dusty agricultural carrier such as for example kaolin clay ground volcanic rock and the like. In specific non limiting examples such dusts may include from about 1 w w to about 10 w w of the compound.

According to various embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compositions may contain adjuvant surfactants to enhance properties such as deposition wetting and penetration of the compositions onto the target crop and organism. In embodiments these adjuvant surfactants may be employed as a component of the formulation or as part of a tank mix. The amount of adjuvant surfactant may vary in specific non limiting examples from about 0.01 percent to about 1.0 volume volume based on a spray volume of water. In particular embodiments the amount of adjuvant surfactant may be for example from about 0.05 to about 0.5 volume volume. Specific non limiting examples of adjuvant surfactants include ethoxylated nonyl phenols ethoxylated synthetic or natural alcohols salts of the esters of sulphosuccinic acids ethoxylated organosilicones ethoxylated fatty amines and blends of surfactants with mineral or vegetable oils.

In embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compositions may include combinations that include for instance at least 1 of one or more imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds with another agriculturally active ingredient AI . Such additional AI may include for example fungicides insecticides nematocides miticides arthropodicides bactericides herbicidal or combinations thereof that are compatible with the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds in the medium selected for application. Accordingly in such embodiments the other AI is employed as a supplemental AI for the same or for a different use with plants than the inventive compounds. In specific non limiting examples the compounds in combination may generally be present in a ratio of from about 1 10 to about 100 1.

Other embodiments are methods for the control or prevention of fungal infection. These methods may include applying the active imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds to the locus of the fungus or to a locus in which the infestation is to be prevented for example applying it to a cereal or grape plant . In embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may be used for treatment of various plants at fungicidal levels while exhibiting low phytotoxicity. In addition in embodiments the compounds may be used as a protectant or eradicant. In embodiments such compounds may be applied by any of a variety of known techniques either as the compounds or as compositions including the compounds. For example the compounds may be applied to the roots seeds or foliage of plants for the control of various fungi without damaging the commercial value of the plants. In embodiments the materials are applied in the form of any of the generally used formulation types for example as solutions dusts wettable powders flowable concentrates or emulsifiable concentrates.

As described above in embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may have significant fungicidal effects particularly for agricultural use. In particular embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds are effective for use with agricultural crops and horticultural plants or for the prevention or treatment of fungal growth in other materials such as wood paint leather or carpet backing.

In particular embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may effectively control a variety of undesirable fungi which infect useful plant crops. In specific embodiments the imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compounds may have activity against a variety of fungi including for example the following representative fungi species downy mildew of grape PLASVI late blight of tomato PHYTIN apple scab VENTIN brown rust of wheat PUCCRT stripe rust of wheat PUCCST rice blast PYRIOR leaf spot of beet CERCBE powdery mildew of wheat ERYSGT leaf blotch of wheat SEPTTR sheath blight of rice RHIZSO eyespot of wheat PSDCHE brown rot of peach MONIFC and glume blotch of wheat LEPTNO .

In embodiments the amount of imidazo 1 2 a pyridine compound applied for a particular use may depend not only on the specific active material being applied but also on the particular action desired the fungal species to be controlled and the stage of growth thereof as well as the part of the plant or other product to be contacted with the active ingredient.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

