---

title: Method and system for dynamic pricing of web services utilization
abstract: A method and system for dynamic pricing of web services utilization. According to one embodiment, a method may include dynamically predicting utilization of a web services computing resource that is expected to occur during a given interval of time, and dependent upon the dynamically predicted utilization, setting a price associated with utilization of the web services computing resource occurring during the given interval of time. The method may further include providing the price to a customer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08266074&OS=08266074&RS=08266074
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08266074
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100621
---
This invention relates to computing systems and more particularly to management of utilization of computing resources by resource users.

In order to implement various business functions many enterprises employ a substantial degree of computing infrastructure including data storage systems computer systems networking and communications equipment client hardware etc. For example an enterprise may deploy a substantial amount of computing resources to implement databases and applications configured to store and process data relating to inventory and catalogs manufacturing finance accounting customers ordering and or any other business function pertinent to the enterprise.

In many instances computing resources may be provisioned according to the maximum expected resource workload for a given quality of service. For example the ability of the enterprise to receive and process customer orders placed via the internet may depend on computing resources such as internet communication bandwidth into the enterprise and available computing and storage capacity to process orders. The enterprise may wish to assure that delay experienced by customers during ordering is maintained below a certain level even during periods of high customer order volume. Correspondingly the enterprise may provision bandwidth computing and storage capacity associated with the ordering system according to the peak level of expected ordering activity.

However demand for computing resources may be highly variable. For example customer activity may follow cyclical patterns over the course of a given 24 hour period depending on customer demographics and geography. Further customer activity may exhibit seasonal variation or long term trends. Additionally demand may vary due to random or singular events. If computing resources are provisioned according to certain maximum expectations of demand such resources may be relatively idle during periods when demand is less than the maximum. Depending on the overall pattern of demand this may lead to significantly inefficient use of computing resources.

Various embodiments of a method and system for dynamic pricing of web services utilization are disclosed. According to one embodiment a method may include dynamically predicting utilization of a web services computing resource that is expected to occur during a given interval of time and dependent upon the dynamically predicted utilization setting a price associated with utilization of the web services computing resource occurring during the given interval of time. The method may further include providing the price to a customer.

In one specific implementation of the method the web services computing resource may be configured to present a software function to the customer via a web services interface. In another specific implementation of the method the web services computing resource may be configured to present one or more of a data storage resource a processing resource or a network communication resource to the customer via a web services interface.

In still other implementations of the method setting the price may include increasing or decreasing the price in response to determining at a particular time that utilization of the web services computing resource is predicted to be higher or lower respectively during the given interval of time than at the particular time.

While the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments thereof are shown by way of example in the drawings and will herein be described in detail. It should be understood however that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the invention to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the appended claims.

As mentioned above in many enterprises that employ different types of computing resources such resources may be provisioned according to a given level of resource utilization such as a maximum level of customer activity or a function of such a maximum level of activity for example. The cost of provisioning such resources may thus correlate with the maximum level of resource utilization. For example sufficient disks server systems bandwidth etc. may need to be purchased leased or otherwise provisioned to meet expectations for peak storage requirements processing activity network traffic and so forth.

However actual utilization of a given computing resource at any given time may vary substantially relative to peak resource capacity. For example an enterprise s network bandwidth utilization may vary by a factor of 9 between times of maximum and minimum utilization. If resource costs are measured relative to maximum utilization such costs may still be incurred even when utilization is less than maximum. In such circumstances there may be few or no incremental costs associated with utilization levels less than the maximum level. That is the degree to which resource utilization is less than the maximum level may be considered spare underutilized resource capacity that is available to do additional work for minimal additional cost.

As described in greater detail in the following discussion in some embodiments an enterprise may offer various incentives to customers to encourage those customers to utilize computing resources during times when those resources are predicted to be underutilized. For example an enterprise may offer data storage services generic processing services or specialized web services to customers. In some embodiments the enterprise may offer discounts promotions or other incentives to such customers to utilize underutilized resources such as by directly notifying customers in advance of the availability and terms of an incentive offer. In so doing the enterprise may in some circumstances increase its recovery of the costs of provisioning the resources for example by encouraging customers to pay some price for resources that otherwise may have been idle. Even incentives that do not result directly in revenue e.g. offering resource utilization for free during certain periods may result in indirect tangible or intangible benefits such as increased advertising revenue due to increased web site traffic increased visibility in the marketplace increased customer goodwill etc.

In addition to offering incentives based on predicted resource underutilization in some instances an enterprise may dynamically price various computing resources. That is the enterprise may dynamically tie the price to a customer of a resource at a given time to the predicted utilization of that resource at the given time. For example in one embodiment the enterprise may continuously vary the price of a web services computing resource according to its predicted future level of utilization a prediction as to whether utilization is increasing or decreasing overall historical utilization data or other relevant factors. Such dynamic pricing may result in greater efficiency in recovering value for resource utilization by customers for example by balancing resource demand generated by pricing adjustments against expected underutilized resource capacity.

In the following discussion various embodiments of computing resources are first described in detail including an exemplary embodiment of a system configured to provide web services as a computing resource. Resource utilization and utilization dynamics are then discussed followed by several exemplary embodiments of methods and techniques for offering resource utilization incentives to customers as well as dynamic resource pricing. However it is noted that this organization is intended to facilitate exposition and the embodiments described herein are not limited by section headings or the order in which the sections are presented.

Many enterprises employ various types of computing resources with which to conduct enterprise activity. For example an enterprise may provision server systems and network connectivity in order to implement internal processes or applications as well as to implement services or interfaces for customers supplier or other parties external to the enterprise. In some embodiments an enterprise s computing resources may be configured not simply to implement the functions or applications of the enterprise but may also be offered to clients or customers external to the enterprise for usage as determined by the external party. For example in one embodiment a computing resource may include data storage capacity e.g. magnetic disks disk arrays etc. . In one such embodiment part of the storage resource may be configured to store enterprise data while another part may be offered to an external customer to store data of the customer s choosing at the direction of the customer.

One embodiment of a system in which a computing resource may be configured for use by both enterprise clients and external customers is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment a computing resource is presented to one or more enterprise resource clients via a local resource interface . Computing resource is also presented to one or more external resource customers via a web services interface . Enterprise resource clients and external resources customers may be referred to collectively as resource users.

Generally speaking computing resource may include any type of resource that functions in support of a computing task. For example in some embodiments computing resource may include tangible resources such as computer systems e.g. standalone or rack mounted systems storage devices e.g. magnetic optical disk storage tape storage etc. wired or wireless network communication devices e.g. Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN devices and or media input output devices or other types of computing devices.

In other embodiments computing resource may be configured and utilized as an abstract hardware resource rather than a specific tangible resource. For example in various embodiments computing resource may be configured as one or more pools or classes of generic data storage network bandwidth processing functionality etc. or combinations thereof without distinction on the part of resource users as to the specific hardware devices underlying the resources. That is in some embodiments resource users may interact with a computing resource as though it were a virtual device of some particular type e.g. a virtual disk device processor or network device .

Instances of computing resource need not be restricted to tangible or abstract types of hardware resources however. In some embodiments computing resource may be configured to provide more complex arbitrarily defined services to clients and customers. That is instead of being configured to perform a generic storage communication or processing function in some embodiments computing resource may be configured to provide more specialized functions to resource users. Such embodiments of computing resource may be generically referred to as software resources. For example in some embodiments computing resource may include a database service that may evaluate queries submitted by users against a particular stored data set a data transformation service that accepts a particular type of data as input applies a transformation to the input and returns the result or other types of computing services that provide output or take actions according to an algorithm or program as a function of input data or commands. More specific examples of services that may be provided by various embodiments of computing resource may include inventory catalog services e.g. for determining retail inventory availability pricing etc. transaction processing services e.g. for processing orders payments etc. data modeling services e.g. predictive modeling of future product sales modeling pricing etc. and other suitable types of services. In some embodiments access to hardware and or service types of computing resources may be provided through a web services interface as described in greater detail below. Additionally in some embodiments computing resource may be configured to function as an interface or front end to another resource that may not be a computing resource. For example in one embodiment computing resource may provide a scheduling or queuing interface for tasks to be performed e.g. by a human agent.

In some embodiments virtualization of tangible devices into an abstract hardware computing resource or configuration of various other resources as a service computing resource may be performed within resource itself. For example with respect to abstract hardware resources in one embodiment a standalone disk array may include multiple physical disks as well as hardware and software configured to organize and present the physical disks as one or more virtualized devices or volumes to be presented as computing resources . Similarly in one embodiment a computer system including multiple processors may be configured to manage processor scheduling internally and may present itself as a single virtual source of processing cycles e.g. a virtual processor type of computing resource . With respect to service resources in one embodiment a computer system may be configured with appropriate hardware and software to function as an application server e.g. a server configured to perform specific types of functions upon request which functions may be offered as services that may be performed upon the request of users. In some such embodiments the particular services provided by the application server may be treated as computing resources .

In other embodiments virtualization or abstraction of devices into abstract hardware resources or service resources may be controlled or managed by interfaces between resource users and the entities underlying the resources. For example in one embodiment local resource interface and or web services interface may be configured to perform virtualization functions with respect to underlying resources on behalf of resource consumers.

It is noted that in some embodiments computing resource may encompass human as well as machine resources. For example in some embodiments computing resource may include human task performers such as employees or contract workers who may receive work to perform via local resource interface and or web services interface . Such human task performers may for example be assigned to perform tasks that may be difficult to automate or implement via a software algorithm such as image classification complex customer service operations or other suitable tasks.

In various embodiments entities underlying abstracted or virtualized computing resources may or may not themselves be visible as resources to various resource users. In some embodiments different resource users may view resources at different levels of abstraction. For example in one embodiment an application program may be configured to interact with storage through a file system resource that organizes physical details of underlying storage devices transparently to the application while a different program may be configured to bypass a file system and interact directly with underlying storage devices as resources .

In the illustrated embodiment enterprise resource clients are configured to access computing resource via local resource interface also referred to as local interface or simply interface . Interface may generally encompass any suitable interface or collection of interfaces to resource such as an application programming interface API a hardware device interface a standard communication protocol interface e.g. a TCP IP port a custom or proprietary interface etc. Implementation details of interface may vary in various embodiments depending on the types of enterprise resource clients serviced by the interface as well as the resource interfaced to. For example in some embodiments clients may include application programs executing on the same underlying computer system as a service resource which applications may communicate with the resource via an API call local to the computer system. In other embodiments clients may include applications or systems configured to interact with resources via a network in which case interface may encompass for example networking protocols as well as API calls specific to the resource .

Interface may serve as a relatively passive conduit for data and control information passing between clients and resource although as described above in some embodiments interface may also manage various aspects of configuration virtualization etc. of a resource . More generally in some embodiments the path of interaction between a given client and resource may involve the interaction of numerous different systems devices and layers of abstraction. In some such embodiments interface may encompass all aspects of such a path.

In the illustrated embodiment external resource customers may access computing resource via web services interface also referred to as WS interface or simply interface . In some embodiments WS interface may be distinct from local interface which may allow external customers access to resource under different usage policies interfacing conventions etc. from those applied to enterprise clients . However in some embodiments both internal enterprise clients and external resource customers may access computing resource through a web services interface similar to interface . A computing resource that may be accessed via a web services interface may also be referred to as a web services resource . In such embodiments access to certain resources may be governed by similar web services interfacing conventions regardless of the nature of the resource user. However in some such embodiments user specific policies may be used to differentiate types of resources a user may access levels and frequency of permissible usage or other types of resource controls based on the type of user e.g. internal or external the specific identity of the user or other relevant factors.

Generally speaking a web services interface such as interface may encompass a variety of standardized APIs configured to allow different software programs to communicate e.g. to request services and respond to such requests in an autonomous typically platform independent manner. For example an enterprise may choose to expose certain enterprise data e.g. catalog data inventory data customer data or other types of data and or certain enterprise functions e.g. query functions electronic commerce functions generic data storage or computational functions etc. to external customers or in some embodiments internal clients via a web services interface. Applications could then access the exposed data and or functions via the web services interface even though the accessing application may be configured to execute on an entirely different platform e.g. a different operating system or system architecture than the platform hosting the exposed data or functions.

In some embodiments web services interface may encompass the use of particular protocols to publish available web services to potential users to describe the interfaces of web services sufficiently to allow users to invoke web services properly to allow users to select and differentiate among web services for a particular transaction and to provide a format for exchanging web services data in a flexible and platform independent manner. Specifically in one embodiment a provider of a web services resource may register the service via interface using a version of the Universal Discovery Description and Integration UDDI protocol which may function as a general directory through which potential resource users may locate web services of interest. The web services provider may also publish specific details regarding how a well formed web services request from a user should be formatted e.g. what specific parameters are required or allowed the data type or format to be used for a given parameter etc. . For example such interface details may be published e.g. within a UDDI directory entry using a version of the Web Services Description Language WSDL .

In many embodiments web services request and response data is exchanged through interface through the use of messages or documents formatted as platform independent structured data such as a document formatted in compliance with a version of eXtensible Markup Language XML . For example in one embodiment a request to a web services resource to provide current pricing information for a given inventory item may be embodied in an XML document including fields identifying the item of interest the type of data requested e.g. pricing data and possibly other fields in which each field is delimited by an XML tag describing the type of data the field represents. The response to such a request from web services resource may include an XML document containing the requested data. In some embodiments web services related documents may be transmitted between applications making requests and targeted web services using a web based data transfer protocol such as a version of the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP for example.

Different types of web services requests and responses may yield XML documents that bear little content in common which may complicate the handling and interpretation of such documents. For example in different versions of a free form XML document specifying a web services request the actual web services resource that is requested may appear at different places within different document versions which may require a recipient of the document to buffer or parse a good deal of document data before understanding what the document is for. Consequently in some embodiments the XML documents containing web services request response data may encapsulated within additional XML data used to define a messaging framework e.g. a generic format for exchanging documents or messages having arbitrary content. For example in one embodiment web services requests or responses may be XML documents formatted according to a version of the Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP which in various versions may define distinct document sections such as an envelope e.g. which may include a specification of the document type the intended recipient web service etc. as well as a message body that may include arbitrary XML message data e.g. the particular details of the web services request . However in some embodiments web services may be implemented using different protocols and standards for publishing services and formatting and exchanging messages.

A more detailed embodiment of an enterprise computing system illustrative of the system of is shown in . In the illustrated embodiment resources local to the enterprise include an arbitrary number of server systems each coupled to an enterprise intranet . Server system is configured to host a web service although other systems may also be configured to host web services. Enterprise clients not shown in are configured to access server systems and in some embodiments web service via intranet .

Server systems interface with resources external to the enterprise via web services gateway which is in turn coupled to internet . An arbitrary number of customer systems are coupled to internet and configured to generate web services traffic some of which may target web services hosted by enterprise server systems such as web service . In particular customer system hosts a requesting application that may be configured to generate web services requests and to receive responses although other systems may also be configured to host applications. It is noted that the system topology shown in is only one example of a possible system configuration and that numerous variations and extensions of such a system are possible and contemplated.

In various embodiments server systems may include any suitable systems that may be configured to host web services or other types of computing resources . For example in one embodiment a given server system may include a standalone or rack mountable computer system including one or several processors e.g. processors compatible with the x86 SPARC Power PowerPC or other suitable instruction set architectures system memory networking and or other peripheral support. Further in various embodiments server systems may be configured to execute a variety of operating systems e.g. versions of Microsoft Windows Sun Solaris Linux Unix or other suitable operating systems as well as applications configured for operation on a particular processor architecture and operating system. In some embodiments server systems may be referred to as application servers. Generally speaking the number and specific configuration of server systems may vary depending on the needs of an enterprise and its customers and may range from a small number of high performance systems e.g. expensive custom server systems to a large number of generic systems e.g. a cluster or grid of commodity systems or any suitable combination thereof. Intranet through which server systems are interconnected may generally encompass any suitable type of networking technology such as wired or wireless Ethernet token ring optical fiber or other types of local wide area metropolitan area networking technology LAN WAN MAN .

Depending on the context in which computing resources are defined for resource users either server systems web services or both may be illustrative of computing resource of . For example in some embodiments server systems may be made available to resource users as generic processing or storage computing resources while in other embodiments server systems may implement web services transparently to resource users such that web services may be the only computing resources visible to resource users.

In some embodiments enterprise side resources may include other devices or entities not shown in . For example in some embodiments the enterprise may include additional systems coupled to intranet and configured to function as client systems to server systems e.g. by submitting enterprise internal requests for web services or other computing resources to server systems . Also in some embodiments the enterprise may include storage devices distinct from server systems that may be coupled to intranet such as via network attached storage NAS storage area networks SAN or other suitable storage interfacing technologies.

Customer systems may generally include any type of system capable of generating web services traffic such as web services requests. For example in some embodiments customer systems may be configured as server systems similar to server systems such as when customer systems are configured as enterprise servers within another enterprise e.g. in embodiments in which the system of is configured to process business to business transactions . In other embodiments customer systems may be standalone systems e.g. desktop or laptop machines handheld devices cellular phones thin client systems or any other type of system capable of hosting a requesting application and interacting with other systems via internet . In some embodiments customer systems may communicate with internet indirectly such as via internet service providers internal gateway proxy systems or other intermediate devices or entities. Generally speaking requesting application may include any type of application capable of generating web services requests and receiving responses. In some embodiments application may include a web browser or other type of HTTP aware interface although it is contemplated that any type of application e.g. custom proprietary applications office applications etc. may be so configured. Customer systems and or applications may generally be illustrative of external resource customers as shown in .

In the illustrated embodiment web services traffic may enter and exit the enterprise via web services gateway which may in various embodiments include one or more routers servers or other devices configurable to separate web services traffic from other types of internet traffic for processing. In some embodiments web services gateway may be configured to perform additional functions such as routing specific web services requests to corresponding server systems according to request type load balancing concerns or other applicable routing factors. Segregating web services traffic from other types of traffic via web services gateway may in some embodiments facilitate the application of different classes of policies to different types of computing resource utilization. For example as described in greater detail below different policies regarding resource utilization resource pricing or other terms of service may be applied to external customers vs. resource users internal to an enterprise or to web services utilization vs. utilization of other computing resources . However in some embodiments gateway may be omitted. In such embodiments the functionality of gateway may be incorporated into one or more server systems in addition to the other tasks performed by those systems. Alternatively each server system may be configured to directly receive web services and other types of traffic from internet without such traffic being filtered or redirected by an intermediate device. When present gateway may be illustrative of a portion of the functionality provided by web services interface of . However in various implementations as described above aspects of web services interface may be distributed between client systems or applications configured to make web services requests e.g. customer systems applications and host systems configured to implement services that evaluate and respond to such requests e.g. server systems web services .

In the illustrated embodiment web services gateway is configured to host utilization prediction logic . In various embodiments utilization prediction logic may be software or hardware configured to implement any of the methods and techniques for predicting and pricing utilization of computing resources e.g. web services described below in conjunction with the descriptions of . In some embodiments utilization prediction logic may be configured to perform such methods and techniques on behalf of multiple resources within an enterprise while in other embodiments individual instances of utilization prediction logic may be implemented for each resource of interest. For example in some embodiments each of server systems may host one or more instances of utilization prediction logic corresponding to the web service s hosted by the respective server .

Computing resources are generally finite resources and a given configuration of a particular computing resource generally exhibits an upper limit on the degree to which that resource may be utilized by a user which limit may also be referred to as resource capacity although for many different types of resources the upper limit may be readily altered by adjusting the configuration to add or remove resource capacity. For example a storage or communication resource may have a certain limit on the quantity of data that can be stored or transmitted over any given time. More sophisticated resources such as e.g. web services resources may have more complex capacity limits that may be a function of the capacities of underlying resources. For example utilization of web services resources may be constrained by limits on available computing power e.g. number of transactions or instructions per second executable by server systems data storage e.g. number of bytes of capacity available for storing data associated with the web services transaction and or communications bandwidth e.g. number of bytes or transactions per second that may be transmitted to from server systems .

Generally speaking the total utilization of a given computing resource may be measured and expressed in units appropriate to the resource type. For example utilization of a storage resource may be measured in terms of a quantity of data stored e.g. bytes megabytes MB gigabytes GB etc. per unit of time e.g. second day month etc. . Similarly communication bandwidth utilization may be measured in terms of a quantity of data transmitted per unit of time e.g. megabits per second . Processing resource utilization may be measured as an aggregate number of units of processing effort e.g. central processing unit CPU cycles transactions etc. utilized or as a rate of processing effort utilization per unit of time e.g. CPU cycles or transactions per second .

In some embodiments measures of resource utilization may be normalized to account for variations in different resource implementations. For example a CPU cycle may represent a different level of processing effort for two different processor implementations such that one processor completes half as much processing work of a given task in a given cycle as another processor. Consequently in some embodiments where different types of processing resources are provided utilization of such resources may be expressed as normalized processing effort equivalents. For more complex or abstract computing resources such as a web services resource as described above resource utilization may be measured in more abstract units such as number of operations or transactions requested or completed per unit of time e.g. number of web services requests per second . As different types of web services requests may require different amounts of effort to process similar to processing resource utilization described above in some embodiments web services resource utilization may be expressed in terms normalized to required processing effort of various requests as opposed to the raw number of requests made.

In various embodiments it is noted that resource utilization may be expressed either in absolute terms as just described or as a fraction of a total resource capacity. For example for a communication resource configured for a total capacity of 100 megabits second its utilization at a particular point in time may be expressed as e.g. 75 megabits second or 75 of total capacity.

A particular computing resource may be provisioned according to a given level or a given expected level of resource utilization of the particular resource . In some embodiments the given level of resource utilization may correspond to some function of a capacity of resource . For example in some embodiments the capacity of a given resource e.g. a server resource may be fixed or not readily expandable such that the utilization of given resource is effectively limited or constrained by its capacity. In some such embodiments the given level of resource utilization for which the particular resource is provisioned may correspond approximately to the total capacity of the particular resource . That is the given level of resource utilization may correspond to a maximum utilization of the particular resource as determined by its total capacity. In other embodiments additional resource capacity over and above the capacity needed to support the given utilization may be provided e.g. as buffer or reserve capacity in case of unexpected increases in resource demand. For example if a maximum expected daily utilization of a storage resource is 100 GB in some embodiments the storage resource may be provisioned to store a total of say 120 GB thus providing 20 GB of capacity in excess of the maximum expected utilization. In such an embodiment the given level of resource utilization may correspond to a function of the maximum utilization of the resource such as 83 of the maximum capacity constrained utilization.

In other embodiments a given resource may be provisioned according to a given level of utilization based on factors other than capacity of given resource . For example provisioning a given resource may include arranging for a third party to provide the given resource under specific terms of service. Generally speaking terms of service may characterize the conditions and obligations under which the third party is to provide the given resource and the costs constraints or obligations incurred by the customer in utilizing the given resource . Terms of service may generally include cost measurement and payment models rate structures quality of service guarantees or any other aspect of the relationship between the resource provider and the customer. In such an embodiment the terms of service may prescribe that a customer incur a cost for the given level of resource utilization irrespective of the underlying capacity of the given resource . For example a customer may be charged for actual utilization of a resource such as the bandwidth of traffic over a network communication resource . In such embodiments resource utilization may not be effectively constrained by resource capacity but rather by the terms of service under which the resource is provisioned. For example an arbitrary degree of additional utilization in excess of the given provisioned level may be possible but at an additional cost such as a monetary cost decreased quality of service increased latency or other suitable cost factors.

In some embodiments the total cost to an enterprise of provisioning a given computing resource may depend directly or indirectly upon the given utilization of the given resource . That is the total implemented resource capacity e.g. quantity of storage number of servers number of employees or task performers web services processing capacity etc. may be that which is sufficient to accommodate the given utilization either alone or with a margin for reserve capacity. Further in such embodiments the total implemented resource capacity may determine resource cost.

In other embodiments the total cost of provisioning a computing resource may depend upon historical utilization of the resource . That is instead of paying for a fixed amount of capacity of a particular computing resource an enterprise may provision the particular resource according to a particular capacity and then pay for the particular resource according to actual usage of the resource capacity. For example an enterprise may provision a communication link e.g. a high bandwidth digital communication channel such as an OC 48 or OC 192 link a T1 or T3 link etc. having a certain total capacity. The enterprise may then pay a third party for actual usage of the communication link e.g. according to the maximum level of actual utilization of the link or a certain fraction or other function of the maximum level over a given period of time. For example in one embodiment the cost of the link during a 24 hour period may be determined according to 95 of the maximum link utilization e.g. as measured during intervals of seconds minutes hours etc. during that 24 hour period. Numerous other utilization based cost models of computing resource are possible and contemplated.

Regardless of whether costs of provisioning a computing resource are determined according to total capacity or peak actual utilization of total capacity in some instances computing resource may be underutilized at various points in time. That is computing resource may be utilized at a level that is less than the given utilization level that determines resource cost. One example of this situation is illustrated in the graph of . In the illustrated example a computing resource may be provisioned according to a given level of expected or actual utilization as described above. The given expected or actual utilization may be less than the total capacity of resource as shown although in some embodiments this may not be the case.

As shown in utilization of a computing resource varies widely over time. In embodiments where resource cost depends on a given expected or actual resource utilization as described above that cost may be incurred even during times when utilization falls below the given level. Consequently when actual utilization falls below the given utilization excess or underutilized resource capacity exists that may be devoted to performing additional work without impacting resource cost. That is under such conditions actual utilization may be increased to the given level without incurring incremental resource costs. However by the time actual utilization of a computing resource is definitively determined the utilization has typically already occurred and thus the opportunity to increase utilization to take advantage of underutilized capacity may have passed. One exemplary period of resource underutilization is illustrated by the shaded area shown in . However numerous different patterns of resource utilization and underutilization are possible and contemplated. For example such patterns need not be cyclical or symmetrical.

As described above with respect to in some embodiments an enterprise may provision resources for utilization both by internal resource clients and external customers . In one embodiment of a method as illustrated in the enterprise may offer incentives to customers to utilize a computing resource during times when the resource is predicted to be underutilized. In some embodiments the method of or a suitable variation may be implemented as program instructions stored by a computer accessible medium and executable for example by computing resource itself one or more of server systems web services gateway a dedicated resource management computer system not shown or another suitable device as described in greater detail below in conjunction with the description of . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where computing resource is provisioned according to a given level of resource utilization. For example as described above in one embodiment a certain amount of resource capacity such as storage processing web services request or other resource capacity may be provisioned and the cost of such provisioning may be determined according to the provisioned capacity. Alternatively in some embodiments the cost of resource provisioning may be determined according to actual resource utilization as in the bandwidth utilization example described previously.

The utilization of the provisioned computing resource during a given interval of time is then dynamically predicted block . As suggested above the likelihood of increasing utilization of underutilized resource capacity during a particular interval of time may be enhanced to the extent that underutilization is detected in advance of the particular interval which may enable additional work to be scheduled during that interval as described below. Such detection in advance may entail making a prediction which may be performed by e.g. a predictive model configured to receive inputs and to predict a variable dependent upon those inputs.

In some instances resource utilization during a given interval of time may be predicted according to static invariant inputs such as the type of the resource being predicted the identity of the interval etc. For example in one embodiment utilization of a communication resource may be statically predicted according to the interval of interest e.g. may be statically predicted to be 15 during the hour 1 00 1 59 a.m. 67 during the hour 10 00 10 59 a.m. etc. . By contrast a dynamic predictive model of resource utilization may take into account similar static variables as a static prediction but may also depend on actual historical behavior of some inputs to the prediction. For example in one embodiment a dynamic prediction of utilization of a communication resource during the interval of 10 00 10 59 a.m. may include a static baseline prediction e.g. 67 that may be adjusted up or down depending on historical utilization of the communication resource during the preceding hour or several hours the same hour on a preceding day or other historical data of interest. In other embodiments a prediction may be determined entirely dynamically e.g. as a function of a previous prediction or historical observation without beginning from a static baseline assumption. It is contemplated that in some embodiments dynamic predictions of resource utilization for different intervals of time may differ perhaps substantially depending on the current and historical state of variables relevant to the different intervals at the time the predictions occur.

While a dynamic prediction of utilization may take into account historical behavior of certain variables in one embodiment a dynamic prediction of utilization may take into account primarily the current state of such variables. For example according to one such dynamic prediction future utilization during a time interval of interest may be predicted to be some function of current utilization e.g. the same as current utilization measured at the time the prediction is made. In some embodiments such a dynamic prediction may be updated in real time or near real time as data on current utilization changes. Thus in some embodiments the offering of an incentive to utilize the resource as described below may be based on some measure of current utilization. More particularly in some embodiments the prediction may be simply that the current utilization is likely to continue for some given period of time into the future. The period of time may be selected so as to be sufficiently brief that the prediction is reasonably likely to remain valid throughout the duration of the selected period. The incentive for example a reduction in price may likewise be selected to be such that the utilization that results in response to the incentive is expected to not exceed the utilization thus predicted.

It is noted that in some embodiments dynamic predictive models may incorporate historical behavior of variables other than the variable e.g. utilization being predicted. For example utilization of a resource may be correlated with pricing of the resource such that a dynamic utilization prediction may take historical resource pricing information into account. Depending on the complexity of the predictive model employed a number of variables seemingly tangential to the variable being predicted may be reflected in the dynamic prediction model. For example a sale or marketing promotion relating to items being sold by an enterprise may correlate with increased utilization of a communication resource e.g. as increased numbers of customers visit a web site to make purchases . By extension variables taken into account in dynamically predicting resource utilization need not be purely historical but may also reflect future predictions or plans regarding other variables. For example previously scheduled work resource maintenance planned business activities e.g. promotions liquidations acquisitions product line manufacturing adjustments etc. or other suitable prospective variables or combinations thereof may be accounted for by various embodiments of a dynamic predictive model.

Thus in various embodiments dynamically predicting utilization of a computing resource may include examining historical behavior of that computing resource and or other relevant historical variables. In other embodiments dynamically predicting utilization of a computing resource may include examining other predictions or future plans regarding relevant variables in addition to or instead of historical data. It is noted that although in some embodiments the output of a dynamic prediction of utilization may include a concrete metric regarding predicted utilization such as e.g. an absolute quantity or percentage of utilization in other embodiments this need not be the case. Rather in some embodiments the output of a dynamic prediction of utilization may include a range of values a confidence interval utilization trend information relative to the time of the prediction e.g. a general indication that utilization is expected to increase decrease or other representations of possible future states of utilization.

It is further noted that in some embodiments a prediction regarding any variable that contributes to utilization may be regarded as a prediction of utilization. For example in one embodiment historical sales data may bear a sufficient relationship to utilization of a computational resource that a prediction regarding such sales data appropriately scaled or transformed may function as an acceptable proxy for predicted utilization. In such an embodiment prediction of sales data may constitute a prediction of utilization. Also in such embodiments it is noted that dynamic prediction of utilization may be implicit in the dynamic prediction of other variables. That is in some embodiments some action such as offering an incentive as described below may be taken on the basis of dynamically predicting variables indicative of utilization without directly computing a value range or other indication of utilization. For example in an embodiment where utilization U may be dynamically predicted as a function of a set of variables U f A B C . . . and where some action A may be taken as a function of dynamically predicted utilization A g U then it may be possible to directly determine action A directly from the input variables A h A B C . . . g f A B C . . . . In such an embodiment a dynamic prediction of utilization may not be directly produced as a discrete result but may be implicit in the process leading to the determination of action A.

It is noted that the time interval for which dynamic prediction of resource utilization may be performed may vary in scope in various embodiments. For example in one embodiment utilization may be predicted for intervals of seconds or minutes in duration while in another embodiment predicted intervals may be measured in hours days or another suitable duration. Additionally the difference between the time utilization is predicted for a given interval and the time the given interval actually begins may vary in various embodiments. For example in one embodiment a dynamic predictive model may be configured to predict resource utilization for an interval beginning at the current time while in other embodiments prediction may occur for intervals that begin minutes hours days etc. into the future. In some embodiments dynamically predicting resource utilization for relatively short intervals relatively close to the present time may enable a finer degree of control over how additional work may be scheduled to use capacity that is predicted to be underutilized.

After utilization of the provisioned computing resource is dynamically predicted for a given interval of time it is determined whether the predicted utilization will be less than the given level of utilization for which the resource was provisioned as that given level may be determined e.g. by total capacity maximum expected utilization with provision for reserve capacity maximum historical utilization such as a previous 24 hour peak utilization etc. block . If the predicted utilization is not less than the given level of utilization or in some embodiments if the difference between predicted and given utilization does not exceed a certain threshold value no further action is taken block .

If the predicted utilization is less than the given level of utilization by at least the threshold value if a threshold value is implemented an incentive is offered to a customer such as external customers to utilize provisioned computing resource during at least a portion of the given interval of time corresponding to the prediction block . Many different models of offering an incentive to a customer to utilize potentially underutilized resources are possible and contemplated and several such models are described below in conjunction with the descriptions of . However it is noted that a customer s utilization of a resource that is predicted to be otherwise underutilized during a given interval of time may result in little to no incremental cost to the enterprise as the resource cost may be determined by the given level of utilization for which the resource was provisioned.

In one embodiment the incentive offered to a customer to utilize a computing resource may be a direct financial incentive related to a cost normally charged for the use of computing resource . For example in one embodiment offering an incentive for resource utilization that is desired to occur during a given interval of time may include offering a discount e.g. a percentage or fixed reduction on the rate ordinarily charged for utilization during the given interval. Thus for example web services requests may ordinarily be charged a flat rate 0.5 cents per request and an incentive to utilize a web services resource may include applying a 50 discount to the usual flat rate during the incentive interval resulting in a rate of 0.25 cents per request. It is noted that any mention herein of specific prices costs rates capacities measures of utilization discounts etc. is strictly exemplary and that any suitable quantities may be used in place of those mentioned without limitation.

However in some embodiments offering incentives may involve other methods of increasing the scope or volume of a resource available to a customer beyond simple rate discounting depending upon the method for which a customer is charged for utilization of resource the pricing model . For example according to one resource pricing model a customer may be allowed a specific level of access to a given resource for a given cost e.g. 1 web services request per second 100 kilobits second of network bandwidth 2 GB of storage per day etc. . Offering a utilization incentive within such a pricing model may include increasing the level of resource access while keeping the cost the same e.g. allowing an arbitrary or even unlimited number of web services requests per second etc. . Similarly according to one pricing model a customer may be allowed fixed or unlimited access to a certain subset of resources for a given cost but no access to other resources . Offering an incentive in this scenario may include expanding the scope of resources available to the customer. For example in one embodiment both delayed and real time financial data may be available through a web services resource for different costs. For a customer who subscribes to delayed data a utilization incentive may include an offer of access to real time data for little or no additional cost during the interval of interest.

It is noted that in some embodiments incentives related to level and scope of access to resources may be applicable even for resources for which no cost is charged to a customer. For example an enterprise may allow a certain level or scope of resource access to customers without charge as a promotional or marketing strategy as a goodwill gesture etc. In one such embodiment offering incentives may variously expand the ways in which customers may access and use such resources during the incentive interval even if such utilization remains without charge.

Numerous other types of incentive structures are possible and contemplated. For example in various embodiments offering an incentive to a customer may include offering a rebate to be paid to the customer at a later date offering a credit against future usage offering credit goods or services sourced from a third party e.g. a promotional partner bundling of goods or services ordinarily offered separately or any other suitable model of incentive. Additionally in some embodiments incentives may be offered under various customer terms or conditions such as prepayment for utilization volume or quantity requirements on the amount of utilization to be used etc.

For example in one embodiment a discount incentive may be offered to a customer to promote utilization of a computing resource under the condition that the customer agrees to purchase a certain amount of resource utilization during the time interval of interest irrespective of whether the customer actually utilizes the purchased utilization. For instance if requests to a web services resource are ordinarily priced at a rate of 0.5 cents per request a customer may be offered the opportunity to perform up to 100 web services requests during a particular ten minute interval of predicted web services underutilization for a cost of 20 cents. If the customer actually performs the full number of requests allowed under the incentive the customer may realize a discount of 60 relative to the ordinary rate. In some such incentive structures circumstances may exist in which the customer may pay more for resource utilization than if the customer had not agreed to the terms of the incentive. Referring to the example just described if the customer makes fewer than 40 web services requests during the specified ten minute interval the effective cost per request may be greater than the ordinary 0.5 cent rate. Thus utilization incentives offered to customers may in some embodiments involve risk on the part of the customer such as the risk of failing to financially break even relative to the costs of declining the incentive if incentive conditions are not met.

Incentives need not be structured as discounts credits or other monetary terms. For example in some embodiments an enterprise might offer a number of levels of quality of service to which a customer may subscribe under a corresponding fee or rate structure according to specific terms of service. In such embodiments an incentive may offer such a customer access to an improved level or quality of service for the same rate structure. For example a subscriber to a silver level of service that is associated with one set of service parameters e.g. bandwidth transaction speed transaction volume support level or any other appropriate parameters may be temporarily offered as an incentive access to a gold level of service associated with an improved set of service parameters.

As described above in one embodiment the offering of an incentive to utilize a particular resource is dependent upon predicted underutilization of that resource during a particular time interval. In some instances a customer that accepts the incentive offer and begins utilizing the resource during the particular time interval may not complete utilizing the resource by the end of the particular time interval or the end of a time boundary specific to the incentive offer. For example the customer may purchase a certain quantity e.g. 10 seconds of processing time of a web services resource to be used during a specified time interval but a particular web services request submitted by the customer may overrun the allotted quantity of processing time or the end of the incentive time interval. In various embodiments such incentive boundary conditions may be handled in a variety of ways. For example in one embodiment a customer s utilization of a resource may simply be terminated when an incentive time interval expires when a customer has exceeded the terms of the incentive etc. In another embodiment a customer may be allowed to continue utilizing resource but under modified terms. For example the customer may immediately be charged a maximum rate for any resource utilization that extends beyond the terms or time interval of the incentive. Alternatively the customer may be charged a rate that progressively increases over time culminating in a maximum rate.

It is noted that in some instances a customer s continued utilization of a resource beyond the time horizon of the prediction that initially led to the incentive offer may result in undesirable resource utilization patterns. For example a resource may be predicted to be underutilized during two adjacent time intervals A and B. Correspondingly incentives may be offered to and accepted by two different customers to respectively increase resource utilization during intervals A and B. However if the first customer s utilization overruns the end of interval A and the second customer s utilization begins at the beginning of interval B the resource may become overutilized which may degrade resource performance or result in service failure. Consequently in some embodiments strict policies regarding the boundaries of incentive intervals and related terms and conditions e.g. the termination or cost escalation policies described above may be employed to provide a disincentive to customers from exceeding those boundaries.

One embodiment of a particular method of offering an incentive to a customer to utilize a computing resource during a given interval of time is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block in which one or more customers e.g. via requesting applications subscribe to an incentive notification service associated with a computing resource . For example in subscribing to such a notification service a customer may indicate a desire to receive notification of any incentives offered with respect to computing resource or only those incentives meeting certain criteria specified by the customer. In various embodiments an incentive notification service may be implemented by computing resource itself by an interface to the resource such as web services interface or by another system or entity within an enterprise e.g. one or more of server systems or web services gateway . In some embodiments the notification service may be implemented alongside the implementation of the resource utilization prediction method of . An incentive notification service may be implemented as a web service in some embodiments while in other embodiments a custom or proprietary messaging API may be used to implement the notification service.

Subsequently an opportunity to offer an incentive for resource utilization is detected block . For example as described above with respect to predicted utilization of computing resource may be less than a given level of utilization during a particular interval of time.

In response to detecting the incentive opportunity one of the customers subscribed to the incentive notification service is notified of the incentive block . For example a web services message or another type of message may be generated and conveyed to a particular customer system indicating the details of the incentive. In some embodiments if a customer has specified certain notification criteria the customer may only be notified if the generated incentive satisfies those criteria.

The notified customer then either accepts or declines the offered incentive block . If the customer accepts the offered portion of resource utilization is allocated to the customer and the method completes block . If the customer declines and other subscribed customers remain to be notified the remaining customers are notified in turn blocks . In some embodiments multiple incentive offers may be made concurrently and thus notification of remaining customers may not be dependent upon a previously notified customer declining the offer. If no subscribed customer accepts the offered incentive the method may complete without taking further action block . In some embodiments other methods of offering incentives to customers may be employed if no subscribed customer accepts the offered incentive or before any offer to a subscribed customer is made.

In some embodiments once an opportunity to offer an incentive for resource utilization is detected e.g. in response to predicting resource underutilization the types of incentives offered and the particular customers to which incentives are offered may be chosen to optimize other business goals. That is while a primary business goal may be to increase utilization under certain circumstances through incentives a secondary business goal may be to increase utilization subject to optimizing some other constraint s . For example if a certain degree of excess resource capacity is predicted an enterprise may seek to minimize the overhead in managing the utilization of the excess capacity by attempting to find a single customer willing to utilize the entirety of the excess during the time interval of interest. That is it may be more efficient for the enterprise to deal with offering incentives to a small number of customers rather than a large number.

However in some instances committing a quantity of resource capacity to a single customer under an incentive may be disadvantageous. For example if a single customer commits to utilizing excess capacity during an incentive interval but continues utilizing the resource after the interval ends there may be insufficient resource capacity to meet demand following the interval when demand may rise. Thus if there is a risk of resource oversubscription due to one or a small number of customers monopolizing a resource an enterprise may choose to offer incentives to a larger number of customers to hold a certain amount of excess capacity in reserve for contingencies or to implement a pricing model that discourages oversubscription. In general the enterprise may take other suitable actions to optimize or satisfy constraints on how utilization improvement may be accomplished through incentives.

Additionally once an opportunity to offer an incentive for resource utilization is detected it is contemplated that in some embodiments the specific incentive offered may depend upon the customer to whom the incentive is offered. For example customers who subscribe to a higher level of quality of service customers who conduct large volumes of business longstanding customers or other categories of customers may be offered incentives that may be more preferential than incentives offered to other classes of customers. In some embodiments if fewer than all customers within an eligible class or group are offered an incentive the customers to be offered the incentive may be selected according to a suitable selection algorithm. For example selection may occur randomly on the basis of recent customer activity in a round robin fashion or according to another algorithm. If an incentive offer is rejected by a customer another customer may be selected to receive the same incentive offer or a different offer may be made to another customer. In some embodiments an incentive offer may include an indication of an expiration date or time or may expire after a default or implicit amount of time passes. An expired incentive offer may be deemed to have been rejected by a customer.

In the embodiment described above an incentive is offered to each of several subscribed customers in turn. However in some embodiments such an offer may be made by broadcasting a notification to all subscribed customers or even all customers regardless of their subscription status and allocating the resource to the first customer s to respond with acceptance of the offer. In some embodiments the number of customers to which an incentive offer is broadcast may be dependent upon a prediction of the degree to which the offers will be accepted.

In some embodiments the offering of an incentive to utilize a computing resource may be implicit in an arrangement made with a customer in advance rather than dependent upon explicit notification and acceptance of the offer as shown in . An exemplary embodiment of a method of such implicit incentives is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where a customer submits a task job request or other type of work to be performed by a computing resource if specified incentive conditions rules or constraints are met. For example in one embodiment a customer e.g. via a requesting application may convey a request to a web services resource to perform a particular task. The request may include incentive constraints e.g. specifying that the request should only be processed during times when web services processing rates are beneath a threshold value or another suitable expression of a constraint. In one embodiment when work is initially submitted it is not immediately processed but rather kept dormant until incentive constraints may be evaluated as described below.

An opportunity to offer an incentive for utilization of the computing resource is then detected block . For example as described above with respect to predicted utilization of computing resource may be less than a given level of utilization during a particular interval of time.

In response to detecting the incentive opportunity it is determined whether the incentive satisfies the constraints previously specified by the customer block . If not the customer s requested task is kept dormant block . If so the customer s requested task is processed block . In some embodiments processing may continue for a specified period of time e.g. the interval for which resource was predicted to be underutilized or as long as the incentive constraints continue to be satisfied. Also in some embodiments multiple customers may submit requests with respective incentive constraints. In such embodiments each such customer s request may be evaluated serially or concurrently when an incentive opportunity is detected to determine whether the incentive satisfies the constraints of a particular customer.

In some embodiments a customer may specify more complex constraints for determining when work should be performed. For example a customer may specify an incentive threshold for a given job as described above as well as a deadline before which the job must be started or completed at any cost. In such an example if the incentive threshold conditions are satisfied prior to the deadline the job may be performed according to the incentive. Otherwise the job may be performed according to the deadline constraint. Other combinations of constraints are possible and contemplated. For example a customer may specify one set of incentive constraints that apply during one time period and another during a second time period.

In some embodiments rather than offering incentives for utilization of a computing resource specifically in response to predicting underutilization of the resource incentives may be incorporated within a general dynamic pricing model for the resource . Rather than assuming default pricing conditions and modeling incentives as deviations from those conditions in one embodiment such a dynamic model may more or less continuously predict utilization of resource and set or adjust pricing according to the prediction. Customers may then opportunistically determine whether or not to utilize resource according to whether the current price of the resource during the time interval of interest meets their requirements.

One embodiment of such a method of dynamic resource pricing is illustrated in . Referring collectively to operation begins in block where expected utilization of a computing resource is dynamically predicted for a given future interval of time. In some embodiments dynamic prediction of resource utilization may be similar to that described above in conjunction with the description of . In one particular embodiment dynamic resource utilization prediction may take into account feedback from the status of previous predictions such as the comparison of a previous prediction against actual utilization for a given interval.

The price of computing resource is then set or adjusted according to the predicted utilization block . For example if utilization is predicted to increase for a given future time interval the corresponding price for utilization during the given future time interval may be raised. Correspondingly if future utilization is predicted to decrease the corresponding price may be decreased. In some embodiments setting a resource price dependent upon a predicted utilization may include adjusting e.g. incrementally the price as a function of a previous price while in other embodiments a resource price may be set arbitrarily dependent upon predicted utilization.

The price of computing resource is then provided to customers block . For example the resource price for a given future interval of time may be made available to customers through a web service e.g. as a request for quote. Actual resource utilization during the predicted time interval is then measured block and fed back into the predictive step block . In various embodiments the length of the time intervals for which utilization is predicted the distance into the future for which predictions are made and the increment if any by which resource pricing is adjusted may all be dynamically variable parameters of the pricing algorithm. Additionally in some embodiments the dynamic pricing algorithm may be combined with and reflect the effects of various specific incentive offers such as those described above and shown in .

Although the embodiment of is described in terms of price of computing resource in various embodiments any parameter associated with offering utilization of computing resource may be set or adjusted in a similar fashion. For example offer parameters that may be set dependent upon dynamically predicted utilization may include the amount or degree of utilization permitted according to the offer a quality of service associated with the offer a duration for which the offer may be valid or a granularity with which units of utilization may be measured as well as other desired parameters.

It is noted that in some embodiments the methods and techniques described above may allow an enterprise to provision computing resources for its own internal requirements e.g. the computing needs of enterprise resource clients and to effectively make use of computing resources during times when those resources are underutilized by offering utilization incentives to external customers. That is in such embodiments the utilization prediction and incentive algorithms may be configured to give priority to internal resource clients . However in some embodiments internal resource clients may compete evenly with external resource customers for utilization of resources in a dynamic open market. It is further contemplated that the methods and techniques described above may be used solely within an enterprise without offering resources to external customers. For example in a large enterprise the cost of resources may be allocated to individual business units using incentives and or dynamic pricing as described above in order to encourage level resource utilization across the enterprise.

In some embodiments any of the methods or techniques described above may be implemented as program instructions and data capable of being stored or conveyed via a computer accessible medium. Such methods or techniques may include for example and without limitation the various methods of offering resource utilization incentives to customers illustrated in as well as the method of dynamic resource utilization pricing illustrated in . Such program instructions may be executed to perform a particular computational function such as receiving and processing resource utilization requests e.g. web services requests performing utilization predictions determining resource utilization status determining incentives to be offered operating system functionality application functionality and or any other suitable functions. As noted above in some embodiments such program instructions may be implemented as utilization prediction logic that may be executable on e.g. web services gateway and or servers .

One exemplary embodiment of a computer system including computer accessible media is illustrated in . In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface . Computer system may be illustrative of one embodiment of server systems web services gateway or customer systems although the specific configuration of computer system may vary for different embodiments of these systems. In one embodiment computer system may also correspond to computing resource itself.

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be a general purpose or embedded processor implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store instructions and data accessible by process . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions and data implementing desired functions such as those described above are shown stored within system memory as code .

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces. In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices attached to a network such as other computer systems for example. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

In some embodiments system memory may be one embodiment of a computer accessible medium configured to store program instructions and data as described above. However in other embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include storage media or memory media such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or CD DVD coupled to computer system via I O interface . A computer accessible medium may also include any volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR SDRAM RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc that may be included in some embodiments of computer system as system memory or another type of memory. Further a computer accessible medium may be accessible via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link such as may be implemented via network interface .

Although the embodiments above have been described in considerable detail numerous variations and modifications will become apparent to those skilled in the art once the above disclosure is fully appreciated. It is intended that the following claims be interpreted to embrace all such variations and modifications.

