---

title: Heterodyne photomixer spectrometer with receiver photomixer driven at different frequency than source photomixer
abstract: A heterodyne photomixer spectrometer comprises a receiver photomixer that is driven at a different frequency than the source photomixer, thereby maintaining the coherent nature of the detection, eliminating etalon effects, and providing not only the amplitude but also the phase of the received signal. The heterodyne technique can be applied where the source and receiver elements are components of a waveguide thereby forming an on-chip heterodyne spectrometer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08482739&OS=08482739&RS=08482739
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08482739
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100928
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 257 486 filed Nov. 3 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with Government support under contract no. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to spectroscopy and in particular to a heterodyne photomixer spectrometer that can be used for terahertz spectroscopy.

Spectroscopy in the terahertz THz frequency range has the potential to provide highly specific identification of molecular species in gas sensing applications. To take full advantage of what THz spectroscopy can offer resolution on the order of megahertz MHz combined with the ability to tune by at least 1 THz is needed. One of the best ways currently to generate widely tunable THz radiation with the requisite resolution is to illuminate an electrically biased photomixer with two visible or near IR lasers that operate at slightly different and tunable frequencies and generate a THz signal at the difference frequency. This has the advantage of using commercially available laser systems and operates at room temperature. Unfortunately existing photomixers generate relatively small amounts of power typically less than 1 microwatt .

The simplest way to detect a swept frequency source is to use a broadband direct detector that is sensitive only to the power incident on it. Unfortunately in the THz frequency range direct detectors operating at room temperature are not very sensitive. Cryogenic cooling can increase the sensitivity but limit the usefulness. Even with higher sensitivity direct detection is still a problem with a broadband detector since the power of the background radiation of objects at room temperature integrated over the frequency bandwidth of the detector can easily exceed the low power from the sources. Using an optical filter to limit the bandwidth is not beneficial unless the filter transmission is incredibly narrow and can be tuned to always peak at the THz frequency. At the moment such a filter does not exist.

One technique that has been used to increase the signal to noise employed and is used in existing commercial systems is to employ coherent homodyne detection. In this case a second unbiased photomixer illuminated by the same two lasers will produce a finite DC current when also illuminated by the THz beam generated by the other photomixer. The direct current generated by other frequencies averages to zero at least for frequencies that are further away from the desired frequency by more than the inverse of the measurement time . Since both detectors are illuminated by the same two laser sources the detector spectral response is always centered on the source frequency. In this way detection of the background radiation at other frequencies is significantly reduced while sensitivity and speed are enhanced.

However homodyne detection has a different problem. The detecting element does not respond to the intensity of the emitted beam but the electric field instead. Because of this the magnitude of the current depends on the relative phase of the THz signal reaching the detector and the phase of the beat frequency of the two visible lasers incident on the detector. This phase depends on the distance measured in wavelengths separating the source and detector. Therefore as the frequency is tuned the detector signal will vary even if the output power the physical separation between the source and detector and the transmission through the intervening media are constant. While this can of course be calibrated out the signal to noise will vary with frequency and at certain frequencies spectra will not be obtained. To compensate for this data from multiple scans can be collected where each scan uses a different source detector separation. However this increases the measurement time and requires stable targets. In addition by detecting a response at DC frequencies 1 f type flicker noise adds significant noise.

Therefore a need remains for a heterodyne photomixer spectrometer that enables room temperature high resolution and high speed detection of both amplitude and phase in a small package.

The present invention is directed to a heterodyne photomixer spectrometer comprising a first laser beam that is focused onto a source photomixer a second laser beam that is focused onto a receiver photomixer and that is at a stable difference frequency from the first laser beam and a third laser beam that is focused on both the source and the receiver photomixers and is swept in frequency wherein the light output from the source photomixer is directed onto a sample and the light transmitted through the sample is detected by the receiver photomixer. The frequency different between the two photomixers is chosen so that standard electronics can pull out the amplitude. While a spectrum analyzer can be used to measure the amplitude and phase since always remains fixed a simple electronic filter with a peak transmission centered at can also be used to measure the amplitude simplifying the electronics required. Because the receiver photomixer is driven at a different frequency than the source photomixer the coherent nature of the detection is maintained and both the amplitude and the phase of the received signal can be detected without having to change the path length and take multiple scans. The heterodyne technique can be applied where the source and receiver elements are components of a waveguide thereby forming an on chip heterodyne spectrometer.

The heterodyne technique can be applied where the source and receiver elements are components of a waveguide thereby forming an on chip heterodyne spectrometer. The on chip heterodyne spectrometer is directly analogous to the free space heterodyne photomixer spectrometer described above in terms of signal generation and detection. However the propagating waves in the on chip spectrometer are confined to a waveguiding structure such as a coplanar waveguide coplanar transmission line or microstrip rather than propagating in free space.

The present invention has been described as a heterodyne photomixer spectrometer. It will be understood that the above description is merely illustrative of the applications of the principles of the present invention the scope of which is to be determined by the claims viewed in light of the specification. Other variants and modifications of the invention will be apparent to those of skill in the art.

