---

title: Communication interface for non-communication applications
abstract: Software applications are enabled with multimodal communication capabilities and features associated with enhanced communication systems through a communication application programming interface (API). Applications for document processing, scheduling, audio/video data processing, and/or business operations can exchange communication system data and parameters bi-directionally with components of an enhanced communication system, initiate communication sessions through the application's user interface, and preserve post-communication updates.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08490119&OS=08490119&RS=08490119
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08490119
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
Modern communication systems such as unified communications UC systems combine various modes of communication e.g. instant messaging voice calls video communications etc. and provide ancillary services like presence recording interactive contact lists etc. With the ever easier to establish single or multimodal conversations and sharing capabilities physical distances between co workers partners and colleagues are eliminated through virtual connections.

Another set of tools that makes life easier and increases efficiency includes a wide variety of applications that enables users to create edit share word processing documents spreadsheets calendars presentations analyses reports audio files video files and comparable ones. The data e.g. documents created by such applications are typically part of the context of discussions and exchanges between users of enhanced communication services. To include such contextual data in communication sessions however users typically have to activate a communication application a relevant application or data sharing component and then exchange the information. Moreover a number of potential capabilities of the communication applications or other applications are not exploited since communication applications and other applications are typically unrelated programs.

This summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This summary is not intended to exclusively identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Embodiments are directed to enabling software applications with multimodal communication capabilities and features associated with enhanced communication systems. According to some embodiments a communication application programming interface API may be provided for applications such as document processing scheduling audio video data processing business applications and comparable ones such that communication system data and parameters can be bi directionally exchanged communication sessions initiated through an application user interface and post communication updates preserved through the application.

These and other features and advantages will be apparent from a reading of the following detailed description and a review of the associated drawings. It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are explanatory and do not restrict aspects as claimed.

As briefly described above non communication software applications may be enabled with multimodal communication capabilities and features associated with enhanced communication systems through a communication application programming interface API . Applications for document processing scheduling audio video data processing and or business operations can exchange communication system data and parameters bi directionally with components of an enhanced communication system initiate communication sessions through the application s user interface and preserve post communication updates. In the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustrations specific embodiments or examples. These aspects may be combined other aspects may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

While the embodiments will be described in the general context of program modules that execute in conjunction with an application program that runs on an operating system on a computing device those skilled in the art will recognize that aspects may also be implemented in combination with other program modules.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that embodiments may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and comparable computing devices. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Embodiments may be implemented as a computer implemented process method a computing system or as an article of manufacture such as a computer program product or computer readable media. The computer program product may be a computer storage medium readable by a computer system and encoding a computer program that comprises instructions for causing a computer or computing system to perform example process es . The computer readable storage medium can for example be implemented via one or more of a volatile computer memory a non volatile memory a hard drive a flash drive a floppy disk or a compact disk and comparable media.

Throughout this specification the term platform may be a combination of software and hardware components for managing enhanced communication systems. Examples of platforms include but are not limited to a hosted service executed over a plurality of servers an application executed on a single server and comparable systems. The term server generally refers to a computing device executing one or more software programs typically in a networked environment. However a server may also be implemented as a virtual server software programs executed on one or more computing devices viewed as a server on the network. More detail on these technologies and example operations is provided below.

A unified communication UC system is an example of enhanced communication systems with a wide range of capabilities and services that can be provided to subscribers. A unified communication system is a real time communications system facilitating email exchange instant messaging presence audio video conferencing web conferencing and similar functionalities.

In a UC system such as the one shown in diagram users may communicate via a variety of end devices and which are client devices of the UC system. Each client device may be capable of executing one or more communication applications for voice communication video communication instant messaging application sharing data sharing and the like. In addition to their advanced functionality the end devices may also facilitate traditional phone calls through an external connection such as through Private Branch Exchange PBX to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or cellular communications through a cellular network.

The communication system shown in diagram may include a number of servers performing different tasks. For example communication server may manage conversations between users over one or more networks . Separately from the communication system users and may have locally installed applications and for a variety of tasks such as document processing analysis calendaring scheduling audio or video data processing graphic processing and similar ones. In some cases application and may be client applications of a hosted service executed by server . In such scenarios data e.g. documents images audio video files etc. may be shared between users and provided to the individual users from server e.g. documents .

In a system according to embodiments applications may be enabled with multimodal communication capabilities and features associated with the enhanced communication systems through a communication API. Applications may exchange communication system data and parameters e.g. rich presence information bi directionally with components of the enhanced communication system facilitate communication sessions in one or more modalities e.g. start a conversation in one or more modalities join a conference share data applications through the application s user interface and preserve post communication updates e.g. changes to shared documents data conversation history etc. .

While the example system in has been described with specific components such as communication servers application servers and similar devices embodiments are not limited to these components or system configurations and can be implemented with other system configuration employing fewer or additional components. A communication interface for non communication applications may be implemented in a distributed manner among the components of the system depending on component capabilities and system configuration. Furthermore embodiments are not limited to unified communication systems. The approaches discussed here may be applied to any multimodal communication system using the principles described herein.

Presentation application user interface may display a presentation and provide controls for editing various aspects of the presentation . The presentation application may be locally installed or a hosted application accessed through a thin client e.g. a browser . Thus presentation application user interface may be the user interface of the locally installed application or a web page customized for providing the features of a hosted presentation application. According to some embodiments an embedded communication user interface may be provided through a communication API. Communication user interface may also be a docked user interface i.e. a separate user interface attached to the presentation application user interface .

The presentation application may communicate with servers and clients of communication system facilitating single or multimodal communications and receiving data associated with communication system features. For example contact information associated with an organization may be retrieved by the presentation application to enable a user initiate communication sessions with other users in the organization. The same data may also be utilized for inherent functions of the presentation application such as creating an organization chart etc.

According to an example scenario a user may initiate a multimodal communication session involving audio communications video communications and application sharing through the communication user interface . Upon establishment of the communication session new user interfaces and may be provided for the respective modalities either as separate user interfaces or in an embedded format. For example presentation may be displayed in application sharing user interface for collaboration during the communication session. Changes may be made to the presentation during the communication session. The updated presentation may be saved and or displayed in the presentation application user interface upon completion of the communication session. Additional data such as conversation history and any other information created or modified during the communication session may also be preserved by the presentation application.

As diagram shows communication client is a root entry point for the application. Contact manager conversation manager and device manager are management objects that can be accessed through the root object and manage other object groups. Contact manager may manage individual contact objects contact group objects and related classes including search objects and subscription objects for presence . Contact and group information may be obtained through instances of those classes.

Conversation manager object manages conversations . The application using the API may create conversations start or accept different modalities add or remove participants and start audio and or video by accessing the instances of audio channel and video channel classes under conversation manager . Device manager manages registered audio and video devices and through which multimodal communications may be facilitated.

From the root object communication client a self class may be exposed to manage the permissions granted for other contacts to access a user s published information. Users may also be enabled to publish their contact information to the communication system or edit their phones under the self class . The communication API may also provide extensibility classes for callers to make simple API calls to start conversations automation for docking undocking a conversation window and for registering application packages that can be used for extensibility.

The object model for the communication API illustrated in diagram is an example one and does not constitute a limit on embodiments. An API according to embodiments may include additional or fewer objects. For example user s computing device capabilities processing power available memory etc. application s capabilities network capabilities and similar ones may be managed as objects by the API.

As discussed above multimodal communication capabilities and features associated with enhanced communication systems may be integrated into applications for document processing scheduling audio video data processing and or business operations enabling them to exchange communication system data and parameters bi directionally with components of an enhanced communication system initiate communication sessions through the application s user interface and preserve post communication updates.

Client devices may enable access to communication applications executed on remote server s e.g. one of servers as discussed previously. The server s may retrieve or store relevant data from to data store s directly or through database server .

Network s may comprise any topology of servers clients Internet service providers and communication media. A system according to embodiments may have a static or dynamic topology. Network s may include secure networks such as an enterprise network an unsecure network such as a wireless open network or the Internet. Network s may also coordinate communication over other networks such as Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or cellular networks. Furthermore network s may include short range wireless networks such as Bluetooth or similar ones. Network s provide communication between the nodes described herein. By way of example and not limitation network s may include wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Many other configurations of computing devices applications data sources and data distribution systems may be employed to provide communication capabilities to non communication applications. Furthermore the networked environments discussed in are for illustration purposes only. Embodiments are not limited to the example applications modules or processes.

Application may be any application that provides a wide variety of services such as editing documents analysis reporting calendaring scheduling viewing and so on. Communication API may enable application with communication capabilities through an enhanced communication system such that data like presence information can be exchanged communication sessions initiated and facilitated through communication user interface and post communication updates preserved at the application . This basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality. For example the computing device may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable such as for example magnetic disks optical disks or tape. Such additional storage is illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . Computer readable storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer readable storage media may be part of computing device . Computing device may also have input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device and comparable input devices. Output device s such as a display speakers printer and other types of output devices may also be included. These devices are well known in the art and need not be discussed at length here.

Computing device may also contain communication connections that allow the device to communicate with other devices such as over a wireless network in a distributed computing environment a satellite link a cellular link and comparable mechanisms. Other devices may include computer device s that execute communication applications storage servers and comparable devices. Communication connection s is one example of communication media. Communication media can include therein computer readable instructions data structures program modules and includes any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Example embodiments also include methods. These methods can be implemented in any number of ways including the structures described in this document. One such way is by machine operations of devices of the type described in this document.

Another optional way is for one or more of the individual operations of the methods to be performed in conjunction with one or more human operators performing some. These human operators need not be co located with each other but each can be only with a machine that performs a portion of the program.

Process may begin at operation where a rich API is exposed to the application enabling the application to integrate with enhanced communication systems. As discussed previously a root entry point object may be used for a number of manager objects managing different capabilities and functionalities associated with enhanced communication services. At operation the application may be enabled to retrieve data from the communication system such as presence information contact information and comparable ones. The data may be used in communication functionality as well as for inherent purposes of the application. For example if the application is a scheduling application it may use the received presence data to set up schedules.

At operation data associated with the application and or user may be published to the communication system by the application. At operation a request may be received from a user to initiate a communication session through a communication portion of the application user interface enabled by the communication API. At operation the application may facilitate the communication session enabling exchange of data associated with the application s inherent functions. At operation any updated application data may be preserved by the application upon completion of the communication session. For example if the communication session involves sharing of a presentation and changes are made during the communication session the updated presentation may be saved by the application.

The operations included in process are for illustration purposes. Enhanced communication capabilities in a non communication application according to embodiments may be implemented by similar processes with fewer or additional steps as well as in different order of operations using the principles described herein.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the embodiments. Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims and embodiments.

