---

title: System and method for managing delivery of public services
abstract: Systems and methods of managing public services provided by a utility are described. The method includes determining a presence of one or more users at a particular location based on a current status of one or more communication devices. The method further includes predicting consumption of the public service responsive to the determining step.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08504668&OS=08504668&RS=08504668
owner: Gridglo Corp.
number: 08504668
owner_city: Delray Beach
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100201
---
The present invention relates to the delivery of public services and more specifically to systems and methods for managing the delivery of public services.

The delivery of electrical energy is typically achieved providing a power grid including one or all of the following elements electricity generation electric power transmission and electricity distribution elements. Electricity may be generated using generating stations such as a coal fire power plant a nuclear power plant etc. and transmitted over transmission lines. The transmission lines may transmit the power long distances such as across state lines or across international boundaries until it reaches its wholesale customer which may be a company that owns a local distribution network. The local distribution network can include substations feeder circuits and distribution transformers to deliver power to consumers.

In general a local power company will manage operation and maintenance of the local distribution network. Therefore the local power company will manage demand faults maintenance and upgrades related to the local distribution network. However the management of the local distribution is often inefficient and costly. For example the local power company can manage demand based on historical usage trends but will still have to move quickly to obtain and distribute additional electrical power when demand rises due to unforeseen or unexpected events. Further the local power company may be able to detect global faults and other problems along the main branches of the local distribution network but still generally relies on consumers and field workers to identify localized outages or issues with the local distribution network.

One proposed solution for monitoring the operational status of one or more portions of a power grid is the use of so called smart grid technologies. To provide a smart grid it is generally necessary for a power companies to install several additional hardware components at various points of the local distribution network. For example intelligent meters sometimes called smart meters are a type of advanced meter that identifies consumption in more detail than conventional meters. Additionally intelligent or smart appliances can also be provided to communicate usage information for individual appliances. These devices are generally configured to communicate usage and other information via some network back to the local utility for monitoring and billing purposes tele metering and for building forecast models for energy consumption.

Embodiments of the present invention describe systems and methods for managing delivery of public services. In a first embodiment of the invention a method of managing a public service provided by a utility is provided. The method includes the step of determining a presence of one or more users at a particular location based on a current status of one or more communication devices. The method further includes the step of predicting consumption of the public service responsive to the determining step.

In a second embodiment of the invention a system for managing a public service provided by a utility is provided. The system includes an estimation registration E R system. The E R system includes a storage element for receiving a current status of one or more communications devices. The E R system also includes a processing element configured for determining a presence of one or more users at a particular location based on the current status of the communications devices and predicting consumption of the public service responsive to determining the prescence of the users at the particular location.

The present invention is described with reference to the attached figures wherein like reference numerals are used throughout the figures to designate similar or equivalent elements. The figures are not drawn to scale and they are provided merely to illustrate the instant invention. Several aspects of the invention are described below with reference to example applications for illustration. It should be understood that numerous specific details relationships and methods are set forth to provide a full understanding of the invention. One having ordinary skill in the relevant art however will readily recognize that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods. In other instances well known structures or operations are not shown in detail to avoid obscuring the invention. The present invention is not limited by the illustrated ordering of acts or events as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts or events. Furthermore not all illustrated acts or events are required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention.

As described above smart grid techniques have been proposed as one method for monitoring power grids for maintenance and forecasting purposes. However the deployment of smart grid technologies in existing power grids is a costly and time consuming process. Further the adoption of smart appliances by consumers is expected to require a significant period of time for full deployment. As a result conventional power grids and even partially converted power grids will generally suffer from a lack of usage data leading to inaccurate power consumption forecasting and ultimately increased difficult in managing the operation and maintenance of local distribution networks. A similar problem arises in managing the operation and maintenance of other types of public services.

As used herein the term public services refers to services consumed by the public provided a public utility via a physical infrastructure. Such services can include electricity natural gas water and sewage to name a few. However the various embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and public services can encompass any other type of services that can be delivered via a physical infrastructure. The term public utility as used herein refers to a governmental and or private organization providing the one or more public services and maintaining and or managing the physical infrastructure for the public services.

In general the presence of an additional person at a location causes an incremental increase in the use of public utilities at a location. For example as the number of persons in a home is increased the amount of hot water being used for washing and bathing may be increased. Therefore this results in an increase in the consumption of two public services water and the electricity to heat the water. Further based on the type of location and the types of persons at a location usage can also vary. For example the type and amount of public services used at a home by a person is different than the type and amount of public services used by that same person at a different location such as a workplace. In another example persons of a particular age group or profession may engage in activities that utilize a greater amount of public services than another person of a different age group or profession at the same location.

Although usage of a public service at a location could be modeled based on the activities and persons typically present at a location such modeling is ultimately inaccurate because such models fail to account for changes in the number of persons at a location. Further because persons may engage in different types of activities at a location usage of public services can also vary according to the different activities. As a result it is generally difficult for public utilities to accurately model and estimate usage.

Accordingly to provide a more accurate estimation of usage of public services that captures changes in number of persons and or the behavior of such persons at a location embodiments of the invention provide for estimating use of public services based on tracking the status of users communications devices. Such status information can include a location of the communications device and a current activity of the communications device. Activities of a communications device can encompass both network and non network activities. Network activities of the communications device can include activities in which the communications device is exchanging signals over a network connection. For example network activities can include exchanging signals for voice and or data communications. Non network activities of the communications device can include activities in which the communications device is performing actions locally. For example accessing locally stored data such as documents photos video music or games.

As used herein the term communications device includes any apparatus capable of exchanging data over a communications network by either wireless or wireline means. For example communications devices can encompass landline telephones mobile or cellular telephones portable and non portable computing devices connected to a data network networked video game consoles and set top box devices to name a few. However the various embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and any other communications devices can be used in the various embodiments of the invention.

In the various embodiments tracking a status of communications devices can advantageously provide a means for improving estimation of energy usage for several reasons. First some types of communications devices are generally associated with a single person. For example a mobile phone is generally used primarily by the person registered with the mobile phone. As a result the location of such a communications device is generally a good indicator of the location of the associated person. Second by monitoring the current activities of the communications device a further confirmation of the user s location can be provided. For example if a mobile phone is currently engaged in a call or other activity it is reasonable to assume that the user is at the location associated with the mobile phone. Therefore since the status of communications devices can be used to ascertain the locations of users with a relatively high degree of confidence this provides the necessary location information needed to estimate individual user impact on the use of public services at a location.

For example when a mobile phone is being used at a location such as a home or office it implies that the associated person is also at the location. Thus it is likely that electrical power is also being currently used at the location in response to the presence of the user. This electrical power may be used for heating or cooling of the location lighting in the location etc. . . . . Accordingly a portion of this electrical power being used can be attributed to the presence of the user. Additionally if this status information is combined with other information regarding the user s behavior at the location with respect to appliances is collected an even more accurate estimate of energy usage of these other appliances at the location can be obtained. For example in the case of a workplace the user may utilize a computer or device. Accordingly if a user s mobile phone is detected as in use at his workplace this implies that it is likely that his computer and associated peripherals are also drawing power. Therefore the estimate of usage attributable to the user can also include the usage associated with these appliances.

Therefore in the various embodiments of invention a system and method for managing delivery of public services is provided. In the system and method communications devices are registered to identify locations and appliances at these locations associated with users of the communications devices. Thereafter the status of the communications devices is determined and is used to determine an estimate the usage of public services by the users at the locations. The usage information can then be used by utilities to manage delivery of services. A system configured for such a purpose is shown in .

Although the various exemplary embodiments will be described herein with respect to management of a power grid or portions thereof the various embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard. Rather the systems and methods described herein are equally applicable to the management of any other types of public services.

As shown in system includes a utility generating and or distributing the public services at least one consumer location using the public services and an infrastructure for delivering the public services to the at least one consumer location . In the case of electrical power utility can include elements for electricity generation electric power transmission and electricity distribution elements for providing electrical power to infrastructure . Utility can also include a utility data hub for modeling electrical demand managing the amount of electrical power provided to infrastructure and performing other computing and data management tasks at utility. Computing systems for modeling electrical demand and managing the amount of electrical power provided to an infrastructure are well known to one or ordinary skill in the art and will not be described herein.

An infrastructure can include one or more physical elements or components for delivering the public services over a local distribution network. In the case of electrical power infrastructure can include transmission lines substations standalone transformer units and any other components necessary for providing electrical power to consumer locations . Each consumer location coupled to infrastructure can also include a plurality of appliances . As used herein the term appliance refers to a device that uses or consumes a public service provided by a public utility. For example in the case of electrical power appliances can include a central heating cooling system household water heating systems household appliances and a pool pumping system as shown in . However the invention is not limited in this regard. For example additional appliances can include washing drying appliances security and surveillance systems office equipment entertainment systems electric vehicles or any other apparatus needing to draw electrical power. Additionally appliances can also include any apparatus that generates electrical power for use at a location . For example appliances can also include solar power cells wind powered turbines and any other electrical power generating devices powered by sources other than infrastructure .

In a conventional smart grid system each of locations would typically have a smart meter and smart appliances each having a data link to utility data hub for directly exchanging usage information and other information with utility data hub . However as described above upgrading multiple locations with smart meters and smart appliances is generally costly and requires a significant amount of time to upgrade an entire local distribution network. Further even when smart appliances are available many consumers would likely continue using existing appliances until a replacement is required. Accordingly even when partial adoption of smart grid technologies occurs utilities will only have a limited view of actual usage. As a result utilities ability to accurately model and mange usage of public services will still be limited. Therefore as an alternate means for generating usage data for use in estimating and modeling usage of public services in a local distribution network the various embodiments of the invention utilize status location of communications devices associated with users and usage profiles for such users as described below.

As shown in the communications devices at the one or more locations are configured to exchange status information over a network with an estimation registration E R system . Network can comprise one or more wireless and or wireline communications links between communications devices and E R system . In some embodiments of the invention one or more communications devices associated with a location can be configured to transmit status information to the estimation registration server over a network connection . In other embodiments of the invention the E R system can be configured to monitor the network status of the communications devices. In other embodiments of the invention the E R system can be configured to poll one or more of the communications devices to determine their status. However the various embodiments of the invention are not limited to any one of the methods described above. Rather any combination of the methods described above can be used in the various embodiments of the invention.

In addition to collecting status information for the communications devices the E R system is also used to register communications devices create usage profiles associated with the communications devices and to provide an estimate usage of public services. A detailed description of the E R system and its operation will be described below in greater detail with respect to . Once the E R system generates estimated usage data the data can then be delivered over a secure network link back to utility and utility data hub . At utility data hub the estimated data can be used to generate and or update usage models or otherwise manage operation of utility and infrastructure .

Although shows a set of communications devices being associated with one of locations the various embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard. In the various embodiments of the invention one or more of communications devices can be portable e.g. a mobile phone and or portable computing device and therefore can be associated with more than one of locations . For example a mobile may be used by a user at a home location and a workplace location. Furthermore more than one of communications devices can be associated with a single user. Thus when status information is received from both devices a more accurate estimate of usage can be obtained.

In the various embodiments of the invention a customer interface device can also be provided and used for interacting with user. For example the customer interface device can be used for entering and accessing registration information for E R system . In another example the customer interface device can be used to view the estimated usage information from E R system and or to view actual usage information from utility . Additionally the customer interface device can also be used to provide non usage information to users. For example utility data hub can forward information regarding programs and services available from the public utility. In another example third party data hub can also be linked to E R system via a network link . Accordingly based on usage information and or registration information in the E R system the customer interface can also be configured to present customers with information regarding goods and services available from third parties.

In networks and are shown as separate networks. However the various embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard. In some embodiments two or more of these networks can be the same. Further each of networks and can comprise one or more other communications networks. For example each of communications devices shown in may communicate with E R system via a different network connection. Thus a mobile phone may connect over one or more types of wireless network while a desktop computer or video game console may connect over a wireline network.

Although shows customer interface device as a separate component the various embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard. Rather the customer interface device can be one of communications devices . Further although E R system is shown as being separate from utility the functions of E R system can also be performed within utility . Finally although utility E R system and third party systems are shown as single components each of these may be implemented in a distributed fashion over a network.

As described above with respect to registration of communications devices estimation of usage data and delivery of usage data is primarily managed by E R system . One exemplary configuration for E R system is shown in . is a schematic diagram of an exemplary configuration for E R system in in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As shown in E R system includes at least a registration engine a usage estimate engine and a reporting engine .

As described above in order for E R system to provide a more accurate estimate usage of public services at a location due to the presence of a user registration information is provided to the E R system . The registration information identifies a communications device users associated with the communications devices locations associated with the users and appliances associated with the user at the various locations. In the exemplary configuration shown in registration tasks are performed by the registration engine .

The registration information can be provided to registration engine in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments of the invention the registration information can be input for a user via a network interface generated by the registration engine . For example this network interface can be provided for the user at customer interface or one of communications device in . The registration information can be input either anonymously or as a registered user.

Further the network interface provided by the registration engine can be configured for operating based on manual inputs automated inputs or any combination thereof. In the case of manual inputs the registration engine can be configured to provide a user with forms surveys questionnaires and or voting programs for manually entering registration information. Additionally means for entering registration information via optical capture methods can be provided to facilitate the manual input process. For example optical recognition methods e.g. optical character recognition and barcode scanning can be used to enter appliance information attached to the appliances and or information from invoices or bills from the public utility.

In the case of automated input the registration engine can be configured to automatically interface with systems identified by a user at a location. For example the registration engine can be configured to access existing smart appliances and or communications devices operating at a location. In another example the registration engine can access a utility data hub or other databases to retrieve additional user information. This can include demographic information and past usage of public services. This additional information can also include past network activity such as voice communications record activities on social networking sites multimedia activities website searches and website purchases to name a few. However the various embodiments of the invention can also include any other type of additional user information. For example in some embodiments of the invention some portions of the registration information can be provided by third parties having access to one or more portions of the registration information provided by the users. In such embodiments the third parties can examine and supplement the registration information with additional registration information that will improve accuracy during estimation of usage of public services.

The various embodiments of the invention are also not solely limited to network interface based methods for providing registration information. In some embodiments of the invention registration information can be entered from hardcopy forms manually or via optical recognition methods. In other embodiments of the invention an end user can interact with a customer service representative to enter the registration information into registration server .

Once the registration information is collected by registration engine a usage estimate engine can be used to estimate usage of public services based on the registration information. For example registration information such as location user demographics appliance information and user behavioral data can be combined with other variables such as weather time of day and season of the year to provide an accurate estimate of real time customer energy consumption. In the various embodiments of the invention the registration information is also used by the usage estimate engine to generate one or more usage profiles for each user. Generation of such profiles will be described below in greater detail with respect to . Accordingly estimation of usage of public services can be simplified by basing the estimation on a correct profile.

After usage is estimated by usage estimate engine a reporting engine can be used to provide the estimated usage data to one or more destinations. For example reporting engine can be used to provide the estimated usage data to the user via a communications device e.g. communications devices or customer interface device . The reporting engine can also provide one or more applications to allow the user to view and interact with real time data to help the end user to understand control and manage current energy consumption. The reporting engine can also be used to provide additional non usage data generated at a third party data hub or a utility data hub. Accordingly the usage data provided to users can be augmented with non usage data. For example the user can be provided with other data such as weather information news and advertisements to name a few. Furthermore the reporting engine can also be used for generating information for other types of users. For example in some embodiments of the invention the reporting engine can also be used for generating information for persons associated with the utility or persons associated third party goods and services.

In some embodiments of the invention an additional interface can be provided for accessing and managing the various components of E R system . As shown in this can be provided via an interface portal . In some embodiments of the invention the interface portal can be an application programming interface API portal. For example interface portal can be a simple object access protocol SOAP based API portal or a representational state transfer REST based API portal. However the various embodiments of the invention are not limited to these particular interface portals. Rather in the various embodiments of the invention the interface portal can be implemented using other types of portals including hardware based portals software based portals or any combination thereof. The interface portal can be used to define how registration information is collected by registration engine how usage is estimated by usage estimate engine and how data is reported to users by reporting engine . Although E R system would be managed by a utility in some embodiments in other embodiments of the invention management of E R system can be performed by third parties. Accordingly in the various embodiments of the invention the interface portal can be used by developers utilities retailers OEMs advertising agencies publishers social networks governments and other service providers to augment their existing services and or provide new and improved applications and content for users.

As described above a large number of communications devices can potentially exchange information with E R system . In many cases the communications devices will be configured to operate using different sets of protocols. Accordingly to facilitate the exchange of information between E R system and such communications devices E R system can also include a gateway . As one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize a gateway typically includes devices such as protocol translators impedance matching devices rate converters fault isolators signal translators and any other devices necessary to provide compatibility between devices communicating using different sets of protocols. In some embodiments the gateway can also operate as a firewall for the E R system . Configuration and operation of gateways is well known to those of ordinary skill in the art and will not be described herein. In some embodiments of the invention communications devices configured for interfacing with gateway can also include additional hardware software or any combination thereof to facilitate communications with gateway . For example communications devices can include a hardware and or software based agent that manages communications with the gateway . Such agents can also be configured to provide additional functionality to enhance exchange of registration information information and usage and non usage information.

In some embodiments of the invention E R system can be configured to limit the dissemination of user data to third parties utilities and any other entities accessing the E R system . For example in some embodiments of the invention communications with users known third parties and a utility can be limited to secure and trusted communication channels. Other communications means such as unsecure messaging services email and social networks can be used to provide only limited information such as alerts and notices for users and other parties. Further E R system can also be configured to limit access to user data over secure channels based on a privacy framework. Thus E R system can be configured to include software and or hardware security safeguards to limit access to registration information and usage information associated with users. Implementation of a privacy framework for disseminating data to multiple types of users is well known in the art and will not be described herein.

Referring now to a flowchart is provided that shows various steps in an exemplary method for managing delivery of public services in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Method begins at step and continues to step . At step registration information for one or more communications devices is obtained. As described above registration information for each communications device in the various embodiments of the invention can include user information location information and appliance information. The registration information can be obtained via manual input or automated input methods as described above.

The user information can specify the identity and other information for the user associated with the communications device. For example the user information can include demographic information for the user. Such demographic information can include sex race age income physical disabilities mobility in terms of travel time to work number of vehicles or type of vehicles educational attainment home ownership or employment status. However the invention is not limited in this regard and user information can also include any other personal information which is known to affect usage of public services by a user. For example since plugging in an electric car will result in addition usage of electric power registration information regarding whether user owns such a car will be obtained during the registration step.

The location information can specify one or more physical locations associated with the communications device and the user. For example a user may utilize a communications device at home at work and other locations as described above. Additionally the location information can specify characteristics of the location which may affect usage of public services. For example location information can include construction details or other location or building details which may affect heating and cooling costs of a building.

The appliance information can specify one or more appliances associated with the user at the various locations identified in the location information. In the various embodiments the appliance information can not only identify appliances commonly used by multiple users at a location but can also be used to identify appliances primarily used by the user when located at a particular location. For example a user may be associated with a particular computer at a workplace as described above. Thus a user s presence at a workplace indicates usage of common appliances such as heating cooling and lighting systems but also the use of particular appliances such as the user s workplace computer. In some embodiments the appliance information can also specify additional information regarding behaviors of the user with respect to the appliances. For example a user may be associated with a particular appliance but may generally use the appliance for only a limited period of time. Alternatively the appliance information may specify that usage of the appliance occurs only when the status information indicates a particular type of activity occurring.

Referring back to once registration information is obtained at step an optional verification process can be performed at step . That is the registration information can be verified by the user. Alternatively the registration information can be compared to information in one or more databases to verify the registration information. For example if the location information fails to match location information stored in governmental databases the user may be asked to confirm or correct the disparities in the data. In another example if a communications device or an appliance is currently registered to a different user the user may be asked to confirm that they are the primary user. For example a family may have several mobile telephones all registered to the same person. However each family member may be the primary user of one of the mobile phones. Thus the verification process would ask users to confirm the primary user of the appliance and or the communications device. In some embodiments if an appliance or communications device is registered with multiple users then both users can be requested at step to identify conditions or other information that would indicate when they are the primary users of the appliance or communications device.

After the registration information is obtained at step and optionally verified at step method can proceed to step . At step one or more usage profiles can be generated for the registered communications device based at least on the registration information. In the various embodiments of the invention the number of usage profiles can principally be based on the number of communications devices and the number of locations associated with the communications devices as specified in the registration information. Thus for each location at least one profile can be generated for each communications device. In the various embodiments the profiles can be generated in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments of the invention a profile can be constructed by starting with a generic profile for a type of user at a type of location. Afterwards based on the user specific information in the registration information the generic profile can be modified. In other embodiments of the invention a profile can be generated based from first principles or based on a set of rules. For example the various portions of the registration information can be scored and or ranked to their relevancy to usage of public services. Thereafter a scoring mechanism can be generated to associate the registration information with usage based on the status information and other information external to the registration information. In some embodiments a combination profile can be generated. That is a profile can be associated with two or more communications devices being used by a user at a single location. However the various embodiments of the invention are not limited to the methods described above. Rather any other methods for generating usage profiles for estimating usage of public services can be used in the various embodiments of the invention.

In some embodiments of the invention the registration information can be combined with data from other sources to generate the profiles. Therefore in such embodiments of the invention additional information may be retrieved to augment any information in the registration information. For example if location information is limited to identifying information for locations an E R system may access one or more databases to obtain additional details regarding the locations. In some embodiments of the invention such information can be saved as part of the registration information for future use. In some embodiments of the invention the additional information can be past usage data obtained from a utility data hub. As a result once the profile is completed the profile can be compared to past usage data to further tune and adjust the user profile.

In some embodiments of the invention a plurality of user profiles may be generated for a single location. For example multiple user profiles can be specified for a single location for different seasons of the year. In another example multiple user profiles can be specified for a single location based on the presence or absence of other users. That is since usage of some public services may not significantly change based on the number of persons e.g. heating and cooling systems a different profile can be provided when the user is alone at a location and when the user and other users are also present at the location. However the various embodiments of the invention are not limited in this regard and multiple profiles for a single location can be generated based on other factors. For example a profile can be generated for each type of communications device associated with the user at a location or for different combinations of active communications devices at a location.

Referring back to once the profiles are generated at step usage estimation can be performed. First at step status information is retrieved from the communications devices registered with the E R system. As described above the status information can include information regarding a current location of the communications devices. Further the status information can also include information regarding current activities of the communications devices as also described above. After the status information is obtained from the registered communications devices at step usage data can be estimated at step . At step the status data can be used to select the correct profile for each user at a location and the selected profile is thereafter used to estimate usage. That is a profile generated at step associated with the status information and or the presence and or activities of other users at a location can be selected for estimating usage. Additionally other information such as weather date time of day etc. . . . can also be used as inputs for the profile or to select a particular profile. After the correct profile and relevant variables are identified for a user the estimated usage of public services by the user can be estimated and delivered to the user the utility or third parties as described above with respect to .

In the various embodiments of the invention the usage estimates generated at step provide only a snapshot of usage during an interval of time. Accordingly in the various embodiments of the invention steps and can be repeated to provide a continuous stream of user usage data. Accordingly new or updated status information obtained at step can be used at step to select a new user profile and generate new usage information. In the various embodiments of the invention the interval of time for repeating steps and can be any period of time e.g. days hours minutes seconds etc. . . . . However a shorter the interval of time allows usage to be estimated more accurately since longer time intervals may fail to timely capture changes in the locations of users or their activities. In the various embodiments of the invention this process can be performed in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments of the invention once a profile is selected the selected profile may be used to continuously generate usage data. The data generation process is then only interrupted when a change in status information is detected. In another example the usage data can be reported to the utility as a rate of use. Afterwards no additional data is reported to the utility until the rate of use changes in response to the change in status information.

In some embodiments of the invention steps can also be repeated in order to update usage profiles. For example a user may need to update the registration information to add and or remove locations or communications devices thus requiring a change in the usage profiles. In another example data obtained from other sources may have also changed and may also require a change in the usage profiles. Accordingly based on these and other changes the profiles can be updated or regenerated as needed. In such embodiments the frequency of updating can vary. For example in some embodiments the profiles can be updated after a particular time interval has elapsed. In other embodiments profiles can be updated if a change is detected in one or more of the profiles. Further a combination of update methods can be used.

As usage data is estimated at step the usage data can then be used at step by a utility or other entity manage delivery of public services. For example in the case of a local power company the usage data can be used to update usage models determine if additional power needs to be provided to one or more portions of the local distribution network and or identify potential issues in the local distribution network or at locations serviced by the local power company. In some embodiments of the invention the utilities and other entities receiving the estimated usage data can also receive one or more portions of the registration information associated with the usage data. Thus these entities can utilize the registration data the estimated usage data and other information to perform further modeling determine usage trends among types or groups of users identify goods and services or perform other types of analyses.

In conjunction with the management of public services in step the estimated usage data can be delivered to users or any other parties at step . Therefore at step usage and optionally non usage information can be delivered to users and other interested parties. As described above the non usage data can include information regarding goods and services associated with the usage data or the registration information. However the invention is not limited in this regard and the non usage data can include other information that may be of interest to the user. Once step is completed method proceeds to step and resumes previous processing including repeating method .

The machine can comprise various types of computing systems and devices including a server computer a client user computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a laptop computer a desktop computer a control system a network router switch or bridge or any other device capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specifies actions to be taken by that device. It is to be understood that a device of the present disclosure also includes any electronic device that provides voice video or data communication. Further while a single computer is illustrated the phrase computer system shall be understood to include any collection of computing devices that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The computer system can include a processor such as a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system can further include a display unit such as a video display e.g. a liquid crystal display or LCD a flat panel a solid state display or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system can include an input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker or remote control and a network interface device .

The disk drive unit can include a computer readable storage medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software code configured to implement one or more of the methodologies procedures or functions described herein. The instructions can also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory the static memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system . The main memory and the processor also can constitute machine readable media.

Dedicated hardware implementations including but not limited to application specific integrated circuits programmable logic arrays and other hardware devices can likewise be constructed to implement the methods described herein. Applications that can include the apparatus and systems of various embodiments broadly include a variety of electronic and computer systems. Some embodiments implement functions in two or more specific interconnected hardware modules or devices with related control and data signals communicated between and through the modules or as portions of an application specific integrated circuit. Thus the exemplary system is applicable to software firmware and hardware implementations.

In accordance with various embodiments of the present disclosure the methods described herein can be stored as software programs in a computer readable storage medium and can be configured for running on a computer processor. Furthermore software implementations can include but are not limited to distributed processing component object distributed processing parallel processing virtual machine processing which can also be constructed to implement the methods described herein.

The present disclosure contemplates a computer readable storage medium containing instructions or that receives and executes instructions from a propagated signal so that a device connected to a network environment can send or receive voice and or video data and that can communicate over the network using the instructions . The instructions can further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the computer readable storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single storage medium the term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium shall also be taken to include any device that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present disclosure.

The term computer readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories such as a memory card or other package that houses one or more read only non volatile memories random access memories or other re writable volatile memories magneto optical or optical medium such as a disk or tape and or a digital file attachment to e mail or other self contained information archive or set of archives considered to be a distribution medium equivalent to a tangible storage medium. Accordingly the disclosure is considered to include any one or more of a computer readable medium or a distribution medium as listed herein and to include recognized equivalents and successor media in which the software implementations herein are stored.

Although the present specification describes components and functions implemented in the embodiments with reference to particular standards and protocols the disclosure is not limited to such standards and protocols. Each of the standards for Internet and other packet switched network transmission e.g. TCP IP UDP IP HTML and HTTP represent examples of the state of the art. Such standards are periodically superseded by faster or more efficient equivalents having essentially the same functions. Accordingly replacement standards and protocols having the same functions are considered equivalents.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Numerous changes to the disclosed embodiments can be made in accordance with the disclosure herein without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described embodiments. Rather the scope of the invention should be defined in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

Although the invention has been illustrated and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art upon the reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. In addition while a particular feature of the invention may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

