---

title: Detecting fraudulent event listings
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing event information and payment information associated with an event listing on an event management system, and calculating a fraud risk score for the event listing based at least in part on the event information and payment information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08666829&OS=08666829&RS=08666829
owner: Eventbrite, Inc.
number: 08666829
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101213
---
The present disclosure generally relates to online event management systems and fraud detection systems.

Many websites allow users to conduct a variety of actions online such as view content write reviews order items purchase tickets etc. These websites often present the user with a plurality of actions to choose from and allow the user to select the type of action he would like to perform. Once the action is selected the website typically redirects the client system of the user to a webpage where the action can be completed. For example some websites allow users to organize events using an online event management system. An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow users to view event listings register for events and purchase tickets for events. Online systems such as online event management systems can typically be accessed using suitable browser clients e.g. Firefox Chrome Internet Explorer .

Some users of an online event management system may attempt to improperly use the system such as by violating the terms of services of the system or by using the system to commit illegal acts. One type of improper use is creating event listings that contain spam or other improper advertisements. For example a user may create an online event listing for a fake event and then use the event listing to display an advertisement for a product e.g. erectile dysfunction drugs nutraceuticals pornography . Another type of improper use is creating event listings in order to make fraudulent financial transactions. For example a user may create an online event listing for a fake event. The user and possibly one or more accomplices may then use stolen credit cards to purchase tickets to the fake event. The user may then request that the system pay out money to the user for the fraudulently purchased tickets. If the online event management system pays out the money before the purchases can be verified such as for example by a credit card processor a credit card issuer or a fraud detection system the system may lose money when the fraudulent purchases are declined by the credit card processor.

In particular embodiments an event management system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event organization and management systems. An event management system may generate store receive and transmit event related data such as for example event listings event details event history details event registration details event organizer details event attendee details ticket purchase details and event displays. An event management system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . In particular embodiments fraud detection system may be a network addressable computing system that can host one or more event fraud detection engines. Fraud detection system may generate store receive and transmit event fraud related information such as for example event related data credit card processor information and fraud risk scores. Fraud detection system may be accessed by the other components of system either directly or via network . Fraud detection system may be an independent system or a subsystem of event management system . In particular embodiments one or more users may use one or more client systems to access send data to and receive data from an event management system . A client system may access an event management system directly via network or via a third party system. A client system may be any suitable computing device such as for example a personal computer a laptop a cellular phone a smart phone or a computing tablet. In particular embodiments one or more users may be an automated system such as for example a computer program an internet bot a computer virus malware another type of automated system or two or more such systems.

Network may be any suitable communications network. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Network may include one or more networks .

Connections may connect client system fraud detection system and event management system to communication network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable connections . In particular embodiments one or more connections include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH connections. In particular embodiments one or more connections each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network another connection or a combination of two or more such connections . Connections need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first connections may differ in one or more respects from one or more second connections .

In particular embodiments an event management system may allow users to organize and manage events. An event may be for example a party a concert a conference a sporting event a fundraiser a networking event or a live performance. Events may occur online such as for example a web based seminar and offline such as for example a live seminar in a lecture hall . An online event management system may allow an event organizer to organize and manage various aspects of an event such as for example managing attendee registrations and selling tickets managing funds from ticket sales promoting the event and managing attendee check in at the event. An online event management system may also allow event attendees to view and manage various aspects of registering for an event such as for example viewing event listings viewing event information viewing event history information registering for events and purchasing tickets for events. As an example and not by way of limitation a first user may use event management system to organize an event. The first user may input event information associated with the event. One or more second users may then use event management system to register for the event. The second users may view an event listing associated with the event and then purchase tickets for the event. Although this disclosure describes particular types of events this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of events. Moreover although this disclosure describes organizing and managing particular aspects of an event this disclosure contemplates organizing and managing any suitable aspects of an event.

In particular embodiments each event that event management system is managing has an associated event listing. An event listing may be accessed and displayed by any suitable client system . An event listing may have an event information associated with the event listing. Event information may include information describing the event date type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer attendees and other suitable event information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of event information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of event information. An event listing may also have a payment information associated with the event listing. Payment information may include the address verification system code for the payments for the event the credit cards used to pay for the event the decline rate for the credit cards the use ratio of the credit cards the locations of payers the IP addresses of the payers the use ratio of the IP addresses the number of prior payouts to the event organizer the amount of prior payouts to the event organizer and other suitable payment information. Although this disclosure describes particular types of payment information this disclosure contemplates any suitable types of payment information.

In particular embodiments each user of event management system may have an event history information associated with the user . Event history information may include event information and payment information associated with one or more events a user has attended or has registered to attend as well as purchase history information associated with the event. Event history information may also include event information and payment information associated with one or more event listings a user has created organized and managed. Although this disclosure describes particular event history information this disclosure contemplates any suitable event history information.

In particular embodiments the event management system may use unique client identifiers to identify a user . As an example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each client system . The event management system may assign each client system with an unique client identifier based on the IP address of the client system tracking cookies on the client system which may be appended to HTTP requests transmitted by the client system the serial number or asset tag of the client system or other suitable identifying information. As another example and not by way of limitation the event management system may assign a unique client identifier to each user which the user must provide to the event management system via a client system . The event management system may assign each user with a username and password that the user can input into client system which then transmits the username and password to the event management system . In particular embodiments the event management system can use the unique client identifier to determine that the user is accessing the system.

In particular embodiments the event management system may maintain an event management account for a user . The event management account may contain a variety of information about the user . As an example and not by way of limitation an event management account may contain personal information such as for example name sex location and interests social network information such as for example friend connections financial information such as for example income and credit history event history information such as for example the type data cost venue performers and geographic location of the events a user has organize registered for or attended and other suitable information related to the user . The event management account may also contain information related to the funds collected by event management system from ticket sales for event listings created by the user and information related to funds paid out to the user . Although this disclosure describes event management accounts containing particular types of information about a user this disclosure contemplates event management accounts containing any suitable information about a user .

In particular embodiments an event management system may use a shopping cart model to facilitate event registration. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may present a user with a plurality of event listings. The user may select one or more of the events to register for. When the user selects an event listing on event management system the event management system metaphorically adds that item to a shopping cart. When the user is done selecting event listings then all the items in the shopping cart may be checked out i.e. ordered when the user provides billing information and possibly shipment information . Billing information may include the user s name address credit card information bank account number PayPal username and other suitable billing or payment information. In some embodiments when a user selects an event listing then that event listing is checked out by automatically prompting the user for the billing and shipment information. The user then may be presented with a registration webpage that prompts the user for the user specific registration information to complete the registration. That webpage may be prefilled with information that was provided by the user when registering for another event or when establishing a user account on event management system . The information may then be validated by event management system and the registration may be completed. At this point the user may be presented with a registration confirmation webpage that displays the details of the event and registration details. Event management system may also charge or withdraw funds from a financial account associated with user based on the billing information provided by the user . Although this disclosure describes particular means for registering for events and purchasing tickets this disclosure contemplates any suitable means for registering for events and purchasing tickets.

In particular embodiments an event management system may facilitate paying out funds to an event organizer. The event management system may collect funds from ticket buyers hold these funds and transfer some or all of the funds to the event organizer. In particular embodiments one or more users may buy one or more tickets on event management system and the system may collect some or all of the funds associated with these ticket sales. As an example and not by way of limitation nine users may purchase tickets to a concert using event management system . If the tickets cost 100 each then event management system would have collected 900 from the users . In particular embodiments event management system may then pay out funds from ticket sales to an event organizer. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may transfer or deposit the funds into a financial account associated with the event organizer. Event management system may pay out some or all of the funds. For example if each 100 ticket includes an 8 service charge event management system may only pay out 92 per ticket to the event organizer. In particular embodiments event management system may pay out funds to the event organizer at particular times. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may pay out funds to an event organizer after each ticket sale. As another example and not by way of limitation event management system may pay out funds in response to a request from the event organizer. The event organizer may request to withdraw all funds from his account. Alternatively the event organize may request to withdraw less than all the funds. For example if event management system has collected 900 from selling tickets the event organizer may request that the system pay out only 700. In particular embodiments event management system may hold funds for a particular time period. Event management system may hold these funds for a time sufficient to allow payments to clear or be verified. Payments may be verified or cleared by a bank a credit card issuer a credit card processor or a fraud detection system . If the funds used to purchase a ticket have not yet cleared event management system may hold the funds and not allow these funds to be paid out. Although this disclosure describes a particular means for paying out funds to an event organizer this disclosure contemplates any suitable means for paying out funds to an event organizer.

In particular embodiments a fraud detection system may evaluate one or more event listings for potential or actual fraud. Fraud detection system may be an independent system or a subsystem of event management system . Fraud detection system may access event listings and associated event information and payment information on event management system and analyze the event listings for improper fraudulent or illegal use. Although this disclosure describes particular methods for evaluating event listings for fraud this disclosure contemplates any suitable methods for evaluating event listings for fraud.

In particular embodiments an event listing may be evaluated for fraud by calculating a fraud risk score for the event listings. A fraud risk score may represent the probability an event listing is fraudulent the percentile rank of the risk of fraud associated with the event listing in relation to other event listings or other suitable scoring representations. As an example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may analyze a set of event listings for fraud and calculate a preliminary fraud value associated with the risk of fraud for each event listing. Fraud detection system may then sort the event listings by preliminary fraud value and calculate a percentile rank associate with each event listing or preliminary fraud value. The percentile ranks may then be used as the fraud risk scores for the event listings. As another example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may analyze a set of event listing and determine the mean or nominal values for particular types of event information and payment information. Fraud detection system may then calculate the deviation of each event listing from these mean or nominal values such that event listings with more or larger deviations may have higher fraud risk scores than event listings with fewer or smaller deviations. For example if the nominal value for an event location is United States then event listings with event locations of Nigeria may have high fraud risk scores than event listings with event locations of United States. As another example if the mean credit card decline rate for ticket purchases is 12 with a standard deviation of 4 then an event listing with a credit card decline rate of 40 may have a high fraud risk score. Although this disclosure describes using particular methods for scoring the risk of fraud associated with an event listing this disclosure contemplates using any suitable methods for scoring the risk of fraud associated with an event listing.

Fraud detection system may calculate a fraud risk score for an event listing based on a variety of factors such as for example event information associated with the event listings payment information associated with the event listing the amount of funds to be paid out to the event organizer other suitable event or payment information or two or more such factors. The following is an example algorithm that fraud detection system could use to calculate a fraud risk score 

Although this disclosure describes calculating a fraud risk score using a particular algorithm this disclosure contemplates calculating a fraud risk score using any suitable algorithm. Moreover although this disclosure describes calculating a fraud risk score using particular variables that represent particular information this disclosure contemplates calculating a fraud risk score using any suitable variables representing any suitable information.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud at particular times. Fraud detection may be in real time or post facto. As an example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud when the event listing is created by an event organizer. As another example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud when the event organizer makes a request to pay out funds. As yet another example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud periodically such as one an hour once a day or another suitable period. Although this disclosure describes evaluation event listings at particular times this disclosure contemplates evaluation event listings at any suitable times.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate a set of event listings for fraud in particular orders. Fraud detection system may evaluate one or more event listings individually in batches in whole or by other suitable amounts.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the event information associated with the event listing. Event information may include information describing the event date type cost organizer promoter geographic location venue performer attendees and other suitable event information. Event information may also include information describing the event organizer such as for example the event organizer s name email contact information location IP address reputation financial information credit score bank account number payment history and other suitable information about the event organizer. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the location of the event. Events in particular locations or countries may be more likely to be fraudulent than events in other locations or countries. The location of an event may be inputted by an event organizer when he creates an event listing on event management system . As an example and not by way of limitation events located in the United States or the European Union may have lower fraud risk scores than events located in various African nations or former Eastern Bloc countries that are known to be fraud risks. As another example and not by way of limitation events located in unknown or imaginary locations may have higher fraud risk scores than events located in known locations. An event listing with a location of Arvandor which is a mythical location may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with a location of Golden Gate Park which is a real location. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the location of the event organizer of the event. Event organizers in particular locations or countries may be more likely to create fraudulent event listings than event organizers in other locations or countries. The location of an event organizer may be determined by querying the event organizer from the event organizer s financial or personal information by examining the IP address of the event organizer when he accesses event management system or by other suitable methods. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer from Romania may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer from the United States. As another example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer in Rikers Island Prison Complex may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who is not in prison. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the reputation of the event organizer. Event organizers who have previously created non fraudulent event listings may be less likely to create fraudulent event listings in the future. Similarly event organizers who have previously created fraudulent event listings may be more likely to create fraudulent event listings. Furthermore new users of event management system may be more likely to create fraudulent event listings than users with a history of using the system. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer who has a history of creating non fraudulent event listings may have a lower fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who has no history of creating event listings. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the payment history of the event organizer. The payment history of an event organizer may include payment information for one or more event listings. The payment history of the event organizer may include the date time amount and other suitable payment information regarding prior pay outs to the organizer. The payment history of the event organizer may also include the charge back rate on any ticket payments that were paid out to the organizer. Event organizers who have previously withdrawn funds may be less likely to create fraudulent event listings than event organizers who are withdrawing funds for the first time. Moreover event organizer who have previously withdrawn funds and had low charge back rates are less likely to create fraudulent event listings. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer who has had funds paid out to him several times previously may have a lower fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who has not yet been paid out any funds. As another example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer who has sold tickets associated with credit card payments and experienced a 0 charge back rate may have a lower fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who withdrew funds once previously and experienced a 50 charge back rate. Although this disclosure describes evaluating an event listing for fraud based on particular event information this disclosure contemplates evaluating an event listing for fraud based on any suitable event information.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the payment information associated with the event listing. Payment information may include the address verification system code for the payments for the event the credit cards used to pay for the event the decline rate for the credit cards the use ratio of the credit cards the locations of payers the IP addresses of the payers the use ratio of the IP addresses the number of prior payouts to the event organizer the amount of prior payouts to the event organizer and other suitable payment information. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the address verification system codes AVS codes returned by the credit card processor for the payments for the event. When a user purchases a ticket online using a credit card a credit card processor may analyze the address information provided by the user and compare it to the address of record for that credit card. The credit card processor may then determine that the address if a full match a partial match or a mismatch. Credit card charges that are full matches are less likely to be fraudulent than charges that are partial matches which are less likely to be fraudulent than charges that are mismatches. Fraud detection system may look at the AVS scores for all tickets purchased for an event listing. Event listings with worse AVS scores i.e. more partial matches and mismatches may have higher fraud risk scores. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an AVS score of 0.84 which is a good score may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with an AVS score of 0.99 which is a poor score . In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the payment or credit card decline rate for the payments for the event. Credit cards that have been stolen are more likely to be declined. Fraud detection system may access all of the credit card transactions associated with an event listing and calculate a credit card decline rate for the event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an 8 decline rate may have a lower fraud risk score than an event listing with a 42 decline rate. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the locations of the payers of the payments for the event. Payers in particular locations or countries may be more likely to make fraudulent payment such as for example by using stolen credit cards than payers in other locations or countries. The location of a payer may be determined by querying the payer from the payer s financial or personal information by examining the IP address of the payer when he accesses event management system or by other suitable methods. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with several payers from Indonesia where credit card fraud may be rampant may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with payers only from the United States. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the credit cards used to pay for the event and the use ratio of the credit cards. Payers who use a credit card multiple times to buy tickets for an event may be more likely to be using a stolen credit card than payers who are only using their credit cards once per event. Fraud detection system may access all the credit card transaction associated with an event listing identify any credit cards that were used multiple time and calculate a credit card use ratio for the event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with a credit card use ratio of 4.1 i.e. each credit card was used an average of 4.1 times to purchase tickets for the event may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with a credit card use ratio of 1.1. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the IP addresses used to make payments for the event and the use ratio of the IP addresses. Payers who are using the same IP address for several ticket orders for an event may be more likely to be using a stolen credit card than payers who place a single ticket order from a single IP address. As an example and not by way of limitation a payer with seven stolen credit cards may access event management system from a client system wherein the client system has a particular IP address associated with it. The payer may then use each stolen credit card once to purchase one ticket for the event. However the IP address associated with each purchase will be same. Consequently multiple transactions coming from the same IP address may be more likely to be fraudulent. Fraud detection system may access all the IP addresses associated with ticket purchases for an event listing identify any IP addresses that were used multiple times and calculate an IP address use ratio for the event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an IP use ratio of 6.0 i.e. each IP address was used an average of 6.0 times to purchase tickets for the event may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with an IP address use ration of 1.2. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the number of prior payouts to the event organizer of the event. An event listing with an event organizer who has previously withdrawn funds may be less likely to be fraudulent than an event listing with an event organizer who has yet to withdraw funds. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer who has had funds paid out to him several times previously may have a lower fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who has not yet been paid out any funds. In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the amount of the prior payouts to the event organizer of the event. An event listing with an event organizer who has previously withdrawn a large amount of funds may be less likely to be fraudulent than an event listing with an event organizer who has withdrawn less funds. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer who has had 10 000 in funds paid out to him may have a lower fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who has not yet has any funds paid out. Although this disclosure describes evaluating an event listing for fraud based on particular payment information this disclosure contemplates evaluating an event listing for fraud based on any suitable payment information.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing for fraud based on the amount of funds to be paid out to an event organizer. The amount of funds to be paid out may also be known as the amount at risk. The amount at risk may be evaluated on an absolute basis or a percentile basis. Event management system may automatically pay out some or all of the funds associated with an event listing at a specific time period. As an example and not by way of limitation event management system may pay out the current balance of funds associated with an event listing on a weekly basis to the event organizer. Alternatively event management system may receive a request to pay out some or all of the funds associated with an event listing to the event organizer. As an example and not by way of limitation the event organizer may transmit a request to withdraw all funds collected from ticket sales for an event. As another example and not by way of limitation the event organizer may transmit a request to withdraw a fraction of the funds collected from tickets sales for the event. An event listing with an event organizer requesting a pay out of a large amount of funds or a large fraction of funds available may be more likely to be fraudulent than an event listing with an event organizer requesting a pay out of less funds or a smaller fraction of funds available. As an example and not by way of limitation an event listing with an event organizer who is requesting to withdraw 100 000 may have a higher fraud risk score than an event listing with an event organizer who is requesting to withdraw 100. Alternatively an event listing with an event organizer requesting a pay out of a large amount of funds or a large fraction of funds available may not necessarily be more likely to be fraudulent however the larger pay out request presents a higher risk to the operator of the event management system . In particular embodiments fraud detection system may evaluate an event listing based on the monetary risk posed by the amount of funds to be paid out to an event organizer. As an example a request for 100 000 from a trusted event organizer may have the same fraud risk score as a request for 1000 from an unknown event organizer.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may approve or deny pay out requests based on the fraud risk score of an event listing. As an example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may receive a request to pay out funds to an event organizer. Fraud detection system may then determine a fraud risk score for that event listing. If the fraud risk score for the event listing is greater than a threshold fraud risk score then fraud detection system may deny the request to pay out funds. For example if the fraud risk score for the event listing is in the 98th percentile or higher fraud detection system may automatically deny the request to pay out funds. However if the fraud risk score for the event is less than a threshold fraud risk score then fraud detection system may approve the request to pay out funds. Event management system may then facilitate the transfer of the requested fund to the event organizer.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may perform a variety of actions to counter improper activities once an event listing has been found fraudulent. As an example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may deactivate the event management account associated with the event organizer who created a fraudulent event listing. As another example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may stop ticket sales for an event associated with a fraudulent event listing.

In particular embodiments fraud detection system may display the results of its evaluation of an event listing for fraud. As an example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may calculate a fraud risk score for a particular event listing and transmit that score to a client system where it can be viewed by a user. As another example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may transmit a fraud risk score to event management system where it can be viewed by a system administrator. As yet another example and not by way of limitation fraud detection system may transmit a fraud risk score to relevant law enforcement authorities. Although this disclosure describes displaying the evaluation of an event listing for fraud on particular systems this disclosure contemplates displaying the evaluation of an event listing for fraud on any suitable system. As an example and not by way of limitation the calculation of a fraud risk score may be displayed on client system fraud detection system event management system another suitable system or two or more such systems.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple data centers or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Furthermore a an or the is intended to mean one or more unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein an A or the A means one or more A unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover this disclosure encompasses any suitable combination of one or more features from any example embodiment with one or more features of any other example embodiment herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Furthermore reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

