---

title: Portable communication device and method of use
abstract: A portable communication device and method of use is provided. In one embodiment, the method of using a handheld mobile telephone includes capturing a plurality of images via an image input device; storing the plurality of images in a memory, receiving a first speech input, identifying command information in said first speech input; retrieving information from memory based, at least in part, on the command information. The method may further include generating a request related to an article of commerce that includes, at least in part, the information retrieved from memory, determining a destination for transmitting the request, and wirelessly transmitting said request through a mobile telephone network to the destination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08204793&OS=08204793&RS=08204793
owner: Wounder GmbH., LLC
number: 08204793
owner_city: Dover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100507
---
This application claims priority to and is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 556 430 filed Nov. 3 2006 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 725 360 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 606 350 filed Jun. 29 2000 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 133 837 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

The present invention generally relates to devices and methods for providing personal communications including handheld mobile telephones.

The present invention relates to a system for providing transmissions relating to broadcast transmissions and methods of customizing and presenting the broadcast content in the form of audio video and text to a viewer i.e. a person . Until recently radio and television were the two most common forms of presenting audio or audio and video to a viewer. However in recent years electronic transmissions over the Internet have become more and more widely used as a medium for presenting information to a viewer.

Television and traditional AM and FM band radio transmissions are unidirectional broadcasts of a one to many point transmission scheme. Most cable television stations and some digital television broadcasting companies include a unidirectional broadcast that can be viewed only by selected recipients. For example viewers who subscribe to certain pay channels such as Showtime or Cinemax are able to view those channels while viewers who do not subscribe to those channels cannot view those channels. In addition viewers who desire to purchase a pay per view movie can telephone the broadcasting service or through some other means indicate their desire to purchase the movie and only those purchasers can view the movie. However besides indicated the desire to purchase the movie or subscribe to a channel viewers have few communications to the broadcaster and have very little control over the received information the format and or perspectives of viewing the information transmitted the time of viewing etc. In addition traditional television and radio broadcasters transmit the same advertisements to all viewers irrespective as to the whether a viewer is likely to be a candidate interested in the advertised product.

The Internet provides a medium of communication that allows more bi directional communication than previously available with traditional television and radio. For example a viewer can select which web page to view from a selection of web pages and can view them in any order. When the broadcaster of the web page has implemented dynamic web pages the viewer can also customize the web page to his or her preferences. For example a web page can be retrieved that displays the viewer s stock portfolio. Since different viewers typically invest in different stocks the web pages for different viewers vary accordingly. Thus dynamic web pages have the capability of producing web pages that differ from viewer to viewer.

Chat rooms have also become increasingly popular as a forum for people of common interest to communicate by typing messages that are visible to other participants in the chat room in real time. However the information accessible to a potential participant of the chat room is usually limited to the participants usernames or screen names and the title of the chat room. Similarly email list servers and newsgroups have become other common methods of communication.

Direct marketing in the form of electronic transmissions such as email or fax is often used to invite participants to receive a broadcast of an auction video presentation a web site or to get people to buy a product or service. Typically the email addresses or fax numbers of a group of people who have a common interest such as horse lovers business opportunity seeks investors etc. are rented or purchased from an email vender. The purchaser or a bulk mail or fax service will then email or fax an offer to all of the email addresses or fax numbers in hopes that at least a small percentage will respond favorably to the advertisement by purchasing the service or product or otherwise responding to the advertisement e.g. by visiting the advertised web site . However if the recipient of the transmission is not interested in the content of the transmission e.g. the advertised product the recipient will typically simply delete the email or discard the fax.

Print advertisements are also used to drive traffic to web sites. Often however the person reading the print ad is not also operating a computer to allow the individual to immediately access the web site if the individual desired to do so. Portable digital voice recorders have been developed that record a persons voice which is stored for later retrieval. The most common use of voice recorders is to alleviate the need to write down information that the user wishes to remember. However the user recording the voice message or someone else must still transcribe the voice message e.g. web address or desire to purchase a product and input that information manually into a web browser.

Many people enjoy gambling even though most people do no live near gambling establishments and people often travel great distances to participate in gambling. One alternative is online gaming which is performed through software. Specifically a computer program generates the order of cards in a virtual deck of cards that the user plays. The virtual cards are typically displayed in graphic form on the user s display. The computer generation of the virtual deck of cards and order of the cards or other gaming device such as dice or roulette is not by many people considered to be trustworthy and fair. In other words many people do not trust virtual gaming in which a computer controls the device of chance e.g. dice cards or roulette and as a result virtual gaming to date has only received limited acceptance in the general public.

The present invention is directed to a handheld communication device and method of use. In one embodiment the method of using a handheld mobile telephone includes capturing a plurality of images via an image input device storing the plurality of images in a memory receiving a first speech input identifying command information in said first speech input retrieving information from memory based at least in part on the command information. The method may further include generating a request related to an article of commerce that includes at least in part the information retrieved from memory determining a destination for transmitting the request and wirelessly transmitting said request through a mobile telephone network to the destination.

Another objective of the present invention is to facilitate the payment of incentives to persons for distributing an electronic transmission to others. For example by keeping track of the recipients to whom participants forward transmissions so that participants can be compensated with promised incentives recipients are thereby provided incentive to forward the transmission to others. Thus by providing an incentive to recipients to forward the electronic transmission containing an advertisement the advertisement can be distributed to a much larger audience than could otherwise be accomplished without additional up front expense.

Another objective of the present invention is to allow a person to store voice controlled commands which are later retrieved by a computer that then exercises the stored commands. In one example a voice recorder having commands stored thereon is placed in a docking station which causes the software on the associated computer to retrieve the stored voice messages convert them to text and carry out the stored commands e.g. buy golf clubs at golf.com . Alternately a handheld scanner may be used to store the text representing the web address for later retrieval and use with a voice command.

Another objective of the present invention is to permit customization of the content and format of the audio and video as desired by the viewer. For example after selecting a sporting event the viewer can select a desired camera perspective or a number of camera perspectives. The viewer may also select the desired audio which might be selected from a choice of different sets of commentators music or an unrelated audio broadcast. In addition the viewer may select an informational transmission containing information for wagering on the event statistics relating to the event or for competing against other viewers of the event. Finally the present invention allows the viewer to store portions or all of the broadcast for later viewing for slow motion instant replay and or for modifying.

Another objective of the present invention is to allow viewers to customize the content of a transmission. In one application of the present invention viewers can receive an entertainment video broadcast e.g. a movie or a live play in digital form for either live viewing or on demand viewing in which the movie is modified from its original form by the viewer. For example a parent might wish to remove or replace the profanity from the audio portion of the movie or violence from the audio and video portions of the transmission so that it is more suitable for younger viewers. Alternately the broadcaster may modify e.g. remove or replace obscene language or violent video the transmission according the requests provided by specific viewers.

Another objective of this invention is to permit the viewer to provide feedback to a broadcaster about the broadcast whether it be a movie commercial educational or other type of broadcast by answering appropriate questions. The questions may be viewed by the viewer at the end of the broadcast or at particular points throughout the broadcast. The broadcaster may also obtain viewer reactions to broadcasts through the use of biofeedback devices that monitor the viewer s physical response e.g. blood pressure skin resistivity heart rate etc. to the broadcast.

Another objective of the present objective is to provide a viewer with a convenient method for selecting a broadcast or portion of a broadcast for viewing. For example a seminar is transmitted to multiple viewers who have purchased the reception of the seminar. The audio and video are transmitted with a text version of the audio or alternately the audio portion is converted to text through the use of voice recognition software. The text portion is indexed to the video or audio either by the broadcaster the creator of the programming or the voice recognition software and provides a number of benefits to the viewer. For example the viewer can later search the broadcast for particular words spoken by the seminar instructor to immediately find and view the portions of the seminar that address a subject of interest. The text version is also available for reading either from a display or in printed form and for use in other documents. Alternately the broadcaster can search for broadcast transmissions according to a viewer s broadcast requests.

Another objective of the present invention allows people to remotely gamble with a real device of chance. In essence the invention allows the viewer to see the game of chance and interact with the gaming employees and other players as if the viewer were actually in a gaming establishment.

Another objective of the present invention is to provide a virtual room for viewers to meet and discuss topics of common interest. For example in one embodiment the viewer s display depicts a virtual room which contains representations of other viewers who are present in the virtual room. Viewers may congregate in groups within the room to discuss subtopics of interest. Once in the room the viewer may gather information about individuals in each group in the virtual room before entering a particular discussion.

Unless the context of its use suggests otherwise throughout this document the term viewing is meant to include seeing the video and hearing the audio of a broadcast where both the video and audio portions of the broadcast are available. Unless evident from the context of its use video throughout this document is meant to refer to the display of moving images as opposed to a still photograph. In general the term broadcaster is used throughout this document to mean the entity operating the broadcast station and who transmits broadcast transmissions through the use of the broadcast station.

As shown in the present invention comprises at least one viewing station and one broadcast station communicatively coupled together. In the preferred embodiment the viewing station is a conventional personal home computer e.g. a PC Windows machine comprised of a monitor microphone speakers central processing unit CPU keyboard mouse and Digital Subscriber Line DSL modem . In alternate embodiments where the application of the present invention permits viewing station may include a subset of these components or other components. For example viewing station could easily include a cable modem or other kind of communication device instead of DSL modem .

The software of the viewing station includes a conventional operating system including a Graphic User Interface GUI . In the preferred embodiment the operating system is Windows 2000 which interfaces with or includes an internet browser Internet Explorer. The software also includes audio video presentation software which in the preferred embodiment includes both RealPlayer and Windows Media Player.

Again the selection of the particular software and the parsing of tasks between software modules is the designer s choice and dependent upon many considerations such as the format of the transmitted broadcast cost compatibility with other components etc. An alternate embodiment of the viewing station might comprise the well known WEB TV provided the processing power required for the application permitted in which a television acts as the monitor and speakers of the viewing station.

The broadcast station can be any station capable of communicating with the viewing station s of the system and that has the necessary processing computing capabilities which will be evident to one skilled in the art. The broadcast station may but does not necessarily originate the broadcast. The broadcast station may receive and rebroadcast transmissions that originated from other broadcast stations or the broadcast station can receive and record broadcasts that are transmitted by other broadcast stations and then retransmit the broadcast at a later time.

In the preferred embodiment the broadcast station is a web server which is a computer that accepts requests for data e.g. web pages over the Internet and responds by transmitting the data. The server also performs various functions e.g. storing data in a database performing calculations depending on the software associated with the various web pages of the web sites that it serves i.e. depending on the application and purpose of the web page . In addition the server of the preferred embodiment includes streaming video capability.

In the preferred embodiment the web server is an Intel microprocessor based computer running Windows NT and Microsoft s Internet Information Server using Hyper Text Transport Protocol HTTP which operates on top of the Transmission Control Protocol TCP .

In the preferred embodiment the web server also includes streaming video software and software for storing compressed audio and video files into a single media file e.g. compressed for delivery over a specific bandwidth such as 56 kilobits per second Kbps on a standard web server. Although the use of streaming video is well known in the art a Web page containing a link i.e. the URL to the media file is placed on the same Web server. When this web page is accessed the client side player i.e. the viewing station software downloads the media file. After a short buffering period the viewing station begins playing the media file. This progressive playback is supported by Microsoft s Advanced Streaming Format.

In the preferred embodiment the media file is copied to a specialized streaming media server such as Microsoft Windows Media Services and a web page with a link to the media file is placed on the web server which may or may not be on the same computer . This embodiment may use the popular HTTP TCP protocols as well as the User Datagram Protocol UDP for faster real time transmission of audio and video data. The data is viewed by using Windows Media Player at the viewing station. Windows Media Server also has Multicast Support to greatly reduce the bandwidth necessary to broadcast to a plurality of viewers. This transmission technique is used in the applications described in which the viewer does not need to process the transmission because the transmission of the Windows Media Server is immediately directed to the viewing station player software . For applications of the present invention in which the viewer needs to process the transmission transmissions formatted for use with RealPlayer or any video audio presentation software that permits storage of the transmission on the viewer s viewing station is used. These various software programs are well known in the art and the details of their operation compatibility with other software viable applications and capabilities are thus omitted here.

The transmission to the viewing station s can be accomplished with software on the server computer or a separate computer which is used in tandem with the server computer to transmit the streaming video to viewing stations. The broadcast station must also include a receiving and transmission device e.g. an Ethernet card . In general the broadcast station includes server software that is capable of selectively communicating receiving and transmitting text HTML video and audio transmissions with a plurality of viewing stations.

Alternately the broadcaster could broadcast rf transmissions e.g. radio optical transmissions satellite transmissions cellular or some combination thereof. The format bandwidth wavelength and other broadcast parameters are parameters selectable by the designer of the system based on the costs compatibility with viewers and benefits of each choice given the application.

The modem of the viewing station is capable of receiving transmissions from the broadcast station and through the appropriate software converts the received data to information that is usable to the viewer. In the preferred embodiment the modem is a DSL modem. However provided the speed of such devices is adequate for the application s broadcast transmission rate a designer could also elect to communicate over a regular K modem a cable modem or an ISDN line. In summary the viewing station is coupled to the broadcast station for bi directional communication receiving and transmitting text HTML video and audio transmissions and includes conventional software for presenting the received transmissions to the viewer.

Direct marketing in the form of electronic transmissions such as email or fax is often used to get participants to an auction video conference a web site or to get people to buy a product or service. Typically the email addresses or fax numbers of a group of people who have a common interest such as horse lovers business opportunity seekers investors etc. are rented or purchased from an email vender. The purchaser or a bulk mail or fax service will then email or fax an offer to all of the email addresses or fax numbers in hopes that at least a small percentage will respond favorably to the advertisement by purchasing the service or product or otherwise responding to the advertisement e.g. by visiting the advertised web site .

One problem with this approach is that many recipients of the advertisement become irritated or enraged by being spammed by the unwanted email or fax . Another option is opt in email address lists which are supposed to include only email addresses of people who have agreed to receive email advertisements. Opt in email address lists however are rather expensive sometimes prohibitively so.

In either case if the recipient of the transmission containing the advertisement is not interested in the service or product hereinafter collectively referred to as product the recipient will typically simply delete the email or discard the fax. The following example uses email as the form of electronic transmission but the present invention would be equally applicable to fax transmissions or even voice transmissions e.g. voice mail as well with appropriate modifications to the processing software that would be clear to one skilled in the art.

By providing an incentive for recipients to forward the electronic transmission the advertisement can be distributed to a much larger audience without additional up front expense. The most widely accepted incentive is a financial incentive. However unless the price of the product is extremely high it would be difficult to provide compensation that is sizeable enough to motivate someone to take action to forward the advertisement. In other words if for example a person is promised 50 for every person to whom they forward the email and who responds to the advertisement their income is limited the number of people to whom they know and forward the email.

By using the principle of multi level marketing however greater financial incentives can be provided. For example if the person is promised 10 for every person to whom they forward the email and who responds to the advertisement and 10 for each person to whom their recipients forward the email and who responds to the advertisement there potential income is much greater. Thus through the principle of multi level marketing a person may forward the transmission to only ten people but might earn thousands of dollars due to the efforts of those to whom the person forwarded the transmission. Although this is not likely to be the case this possibility provides incentive for people to forward the transmission while if their income was limited to their own efforts they might not forward the transmission.

This concept is shown in . For example a person who receives an email containing the advertisement receives 10 for each person to whom they forward the email and who responds to the advertisement a person who responds to the transmission is hereinafter referred to as a respondent . In other words the transmitter receives 10 for each first level respondent . In addition that transmitter receives 9 for each person that responds to an advertisement in an email from one of the recipients to whom the transmitter forwarded the advertisements. In other words the transmitter receives 9 for each second level respondent . Furthermore the transmitter receives 8 for each person that responds to the advertisement in an email forwarded from one of the transmitter s recipients recipients . In other words the transmitter receives 8 for each third level respondent . In this example transmitter forwarded the email to only two people but earned commissions of 46 26 dollars of which is the result of the transmitter s first level recipients and forwarding the email to others. A respondent may or may not also forward the transmission and any recipient may or may not also be a respondent. As an illustration recipient forwarded the transmission but need not have been a respondent but was in the above example . Recipient was a respondent but did not forward the transmission. Recipient was a respondent who did forward the transmission.

The number of levels of respondents for which an incentive is promised and thus the levels deep from which participants receive commissions is at the discretion of the promoter executing the marketing program and the software designer. Thus the goal of this invention is to facilitate the payment of incentives by keeping track of the recipients to whom participants forward the advertisement so that they can be compensated with the promised incentives thereby providing incentive for recipients to forward the transmission to others.

In the following example embodiment the electronic transmissions are emails and the vender is interested in selling an investment newsletter at an annual subscription price of 300. The promoter is paid 50 for each respondent that subscribes to the newsletter of which up to 40 is paid to recipients for forwarding the transmission and advertisement to someone who ultimately subscribes to the newsletter i.e. responds . On behalf of the vender the promoter transmits ten thousand emails to persons known to be interested in investing and who have agreed to accept emails advertising investment products opt in email addresses . The email address of the ten thousand original recipients is stored on the email processing computer of the promoter which is in this example but does not need to be the same computer that transmitted the emails. The email processing computer in this example is a broadcast station as described above.

The email includes two parts. The first part includes the advertisement for the newsletter which provides a description of the newsletter the benefits provided by the newsletter and the web address URL for finding more information about newsletter and where the recipient may purchase the newsletter. In this example this part of the email reads 

 Would you like to increase your investment earnings while reducing your risk If you would like to learn how without risk read on Our Investor s Newsletter is guaranteed with a 100 money back no questions asked guarantee. To learn more or to subscribe go to www.EarnAndInvest.com. 

A second part the next portion of the body of the email includes an incentive for forwarding the email to others. More specifically the second part includes a description of the incentive instructions for participating and the web address where recipients can get more information about the promotion. In this example this part of the email reads 

 Would you like to earn money by simply forwarding emails No sign up no money required Simply forward this email to all of your friends and cc us at Newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com. We ll keep track of everyone you forward this promotion to. You ll get 10 for every person who subscribes to the newsletter and is in the chain of emails in which you forwarded the advertisement and is within four email transmissions of you i.e. four emails deep . When the program is over on July 15 we ll email you to tell you how much you earned so you can give us your name and address to receive your check. For more information about this promotion visit our site at www.thunderboltpromotions.com. 

Thus each of the ten thousand original recipients receives this two part email. Some of these recipients visit the vender s web site to subscribe to the newsletter and therefore become a respondent to the advertisement. Some of these recipients forward the email to others in hopes of receiving the financial incentive. Some of the recipients do both become a respondent and forward the advertisement . The original recipients and future recipients that do forward the email cc the email i.e. transmit a copy of the email to the email address of newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com which is a transmission certification receptor. As discussed below the promoter can then access the transmission certification receptor i.e. access the email server receiving the email sent to newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com to determine the email addresses of the transmitters and recipients of the email carrying the advertisement. In the present embodiment the transmission certification receptor is an email address resident on the email processing computer which acts as the email server as well. However the transmission certification receptor could be an email address on any email server in which the emails are retrievable by the email processing computer.

Each person who subscribes to the advertisement i.e. each respondent is asked to supply the email address at which the respondent received the advertisement. The vender then periodically provides the email addresses of the respondents to the promoter. In the present embodiment the vender gives the promoter the email addresses of all new subscribers respondents on a weekly basis. This information is stored by the promoter on the email processing computer in a database table called RESPONDENTS.

The email processing computer will routinely access the emails that are received at the transmission certification receptor newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com and identify the email address of the sender of the email hereinafter the transmitter and identify all the email addresses of the corresponding recipients hereinafter recipients of the email. In the present embodiment this is done hourly. The emails are processed in the order in which they are received at the transmission certification receptor newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com . In this embodiment the initial processing also parses the subject line to ensure that particular words are present such as the word newsletter in this example. Emails that do not include the proper word or phrase in the subject line are not processed and are deleted or stored for other use as decided by the promoter. Alternately the initial processing could parse the body of the transmission the body of the email in this example to identify particular words or phrases or the time of transmission or reception by others or not parse the body or subject line at all.

The initial processing results in information being stored in the EMAIL table of the database that includes for each email an index number for the email received at newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com the email address of the transmitter of that email and the email addresses of all of the corresponding recipients of that email. Each email that is processed is assigned an incrementally higher index number. Emails with higher index numbers are then known to have been received later than emails with lower index numbers.

As previously discussed the email processing computer in this embodiment includes the same components as the broadcast station described above and may also function as a broadcast station. The processing software in the present embodiment is written in Microsoft Visual Basic that accesses a Microsoft SQL database a relational database . In addition the Visual Basic software uses a Visual Basic Component which in this embodiment is Microsoft MAPI Messaging Application Programming Interface Component to communicate with the email server acting as the transmission certification receptor. The initial processing software retrieves the sender field of the email to identify the email address of the transmitter. Likewise the software retrieves the recipients field of the email to identify the email addresses of the recipients. Similarly if the subject line is being parsed the software retrieves the subject field of the email for parsing. Other information as is deemed necessary by the designer or promoter can be discerned from other fields the body or the trailer of the email as well.

Further details of extracting information from emails both the body of the email addresses and the subject line and other transmissions are well known in the art and are not repeated here. The particular method used to extract the information from the transmissions are left to the designer who will make the election based on the programming language the operating system the transmission system the speed of the CPU costs and other factors.

Periodically and in the present embodiment coinciding with the arrival of the list of respondents from the vender the secondary processing is performed by the email processing computer. The goal of the secondary processing is to identify each of the respondents as a recipient and to identify the transmitters i.e. email addresses of persons who transmitted the email advertisement eventually received by that recipient and who are to be compensated with the promised incentives.

Referring to during the secondary processing the email processing computer retrieves a respondent email address from memory and searches the original recipients to determine if the respondent was one of the original ten thousand recipients . If the respondent is identified as one of the original recipients the RESPONDENTS table of the database is updated to mark that respondent as being completed and identified as an original recipient and processing continues with the next respondent . If the respondent is not identified as an original recipient the computer searches the recipients in the EMAIL table to identify the first email i.e. by email index that was received at the transmission certification receptor newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com and in which the respondent was a recipient. In the present example this is easily done by searching from lower email index numbers to higher index numbers. If there are no recipients that match the respondent then that respondent record in the RESPONDENT table is updated to indicate that no matching recipient was found and the secondary processing continues to the next respondent email address .

If a recipient email address matching the respondent email address is identified the corresponding transmitter the transmitter who forwarded the email to the respondent hereinafter referred to as first transmitter is also identified in the database because the first transmitter is the only transmitter associated with the same email index. The email address of the first transmitter is then stored in a separate table e.g. the COMMISSIONS table in the database along with the commission that the first transmitter is to receive for that respondent. In this case a separate field in the table is used to store the value of the commission 10.

Next the goal of the secondary processing is to identify the email in which the first transmitter is a recipient. First the original recipients are searched to determine if the first transmitter was one of the original ten thousand recipients. If the first transmitter is identified among the original recipients the respondent in the RESPONDENTS table is marked completed and the processing continues with the next respondent . If the first transmitter is not identified among the original recipients the EMAIL table is searched to identify the first email i.e. by email index that was received at newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com and in which the first transmitter was a recipient. In the present example this is easily done by searching from lower email index numbers to higher index numbers. If there are no recipients that match the first transmitter then that respondent record in the RESPONDENT table is updated to indicate that processing has been completed and the processing continues with the next respondent . Theoretically this should not occur as all transmitters of the email should be either an original recipient or should have received the email from another transmitter. However this could occur due to technical problems e.g. the cc of the person forwarding the email to the first transmitter never reaching newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com or the transmitter could have typed in a printed version of the email that the transmitter never received electronically .

If the first transmitter is identified as a recipient the corresponding transmitter the transmitter who forwarded the email to the first transmitter hereinafter referred to as second transmitter is also identified in the database because the second transmitter is the only transmitter associated with the same email index. The email address of the second transmitter is then stored e.g. in the COMMISSIONS table in the database along with the commission that the second transmitter is to receive for that respondent. In this case the value of the commission of 10 is stored in the database and the processing continues with the next respondent .

Although not shown in the figures because the process is substantially the same as the process just described the next goal of the secondary processing is to identify the email in which the second transmitter is a recipient. First the original recipients are searched to determine if the second transmitter was one of the original recipients. If the second transmitter is identified among the original recipients the respondent is marked completed in the RESPONDENTS table and processing continues with the next respondent. If the second transmitter is not identified among the original recipients the EMAIL table is searched to identify the first email i.e. by email index that was received at newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com and which the second transmitter was a recipient. In the present example this is easily done by searching from lower email index numbers to higher index numbers. If there are no recipients that match the second transmitter then that respondent record in the RESPONDENT table is updated to indicate that none were identified and that processing has been completed. The processing then continues with the next respondent.

If the second transmitter is identified as a recipient the corresponding transmitter the transmitter who forwarded the email to the second transmitter hereinafter referred to as third transmitter is also identified in the database because the third transmitter is the only transmitter associated with the same email index. The email address of the third transmitter is then stored e.g. in the COMMISSIONS table in the database along with the commission that the third transmitter is to receive for that respondent. In this case the value of the commission of 10 is stored in the database.

Next the goal of the secondary processing is to identify the email in which the third transmitter is a recipient. First the original recipients are searched to determine if the third transmitter was one of the original recipients. If the third transmitter is identified among the original recipients the respondent is marked completed in the RESPONDENT table and the processing continues with the next respondent. If the third transmitter is not identified among the original recipients the EMAIL table is searched to identify the first email i.e. email index that was received at newsletter thunderboltpromotions.com and in which the third transmitter was a recipient. In the present example this is easily done by searching from lower email index numbers to higher index numbers. If there are no recipients that match the third transmitter then that respondent record in the RESPONDENT table is updated to indicate that none were identified and that processing has been completed for that respondent. The processing then continues with the next respondent.

If the third transmitter is identified as a recipient the corresponding transmitter the transmitter who forwarded the email to the third transmitter hereinafter referred to as fourth transmitter is also identified in the database because the fourth transmitter is the only transmitter associated with the same email index. The email address of the fourth transmitter is then stored e.g. in the COMMISSIONS table in the database along with the commission that the fourth transmitter is to receive for that respondent. In this case the value of the commission of 10 is stored in the database and processing continues with the next respondent.

In the present embodiment the storage of the commission in the COMMISSIONS table is performed by first searching for the identified transmitter first second third and fourth in the COMMISSIONS table. If that transmitter is found in the COMMISSIONS table then the commission field in the table is simply increased by the amount of the currently calculated commission.

In an alternate embodiment the identified transmitter and associated commission are simply appended to the end of the COMMISSIONS table. When secondary processing is complete the table is then sorted on the transmitter field commissions for duplicate transmitter records added and duplicate transmitter records then deleted except for one leaving one record for each transmitter and the calculated total commission earned by that transmitter.

The secondary processing continues for each respondent for as many transmitters that are promised the incentive in this case four transmitters. Although in the present example the secondary processing is performed weekly and coinciding with the receipt of new respondents the secondary processing could be performed once when the promotion is finished. Alternately the secondary processing could be performed monthly or anytime that processing power is available and respondent email addresses are available for processing.

Periodically or alternately when the advertising campaign is complete the email processing computer will perform a transmission notification. In the present embodiment this entails emailing each email address in the COMMISSIONS table to inform them that they have earned a commission. The email explains that the person has earned a commission and refers the person to the promoter s web site where the person may enter his or her name and address so that the promoter may forward the person a check for the commission earned minus any administrative costs . Optionally the transmission notification may include the amount of the commission earned or any other information deemed necessary by the promoter.

In the present embodiment the commission for all identified transmitters first second third and four transmitters is the same 10 . Because the commission is the same for each payable transmitter first second third and fourth transmitters the amount of the commission does not necessarily need to be stored. The transmitter i.e. transmitter s email could be appended to the COMMISSIONS table by itself. Prior to the transmission notification the processing software then counts the number of times each transmitter appears in the table and multiplies this number by the amount of the commission to determine the current earned commission for each transmitter.

The commission could also be a stepped commission. For example first transmitters would receive second transmitters would receive 9 and third transmitters would receive 8 as illustrated in . The commission structure is simply a design choice selected by the software designer and promoter and there are numerous alternative commission structures. The commission structure could be based on the number of recipients that receive the transmission so that in the present example the total commission value 40 is split among the identified transmitters. If there is only one identified transmitter then that transmitter receives the entire 40. If there are two identified transmitters they each receive 20 and so on. Recipients could also be paid e.g. 10 cents for each person to whom they forward they transmission irrespective of whether any recipients respond to the advertisement in addition to or instead of being paid for downline respondents . Thus over a month a recipient would be paid for forwarding a number e.g. ten of different advertisements to others. In this example the processing software determines which recipients have already received the transmission and does not credit the transmitter for recipients that have already received the transmission. Of course the number of transmitters that are identified and paid a commission and the structure of the incentive is also the designer s and or promoter s choice.

As an alternative to the example of the first embodiment the vender s web site automatically provides the respondent information at the end of each day. This automatic supplying of the respondent email addresses automatically initiates the secondary processing by the email processing computer provided initial processing is up to date i.e. there is no back log of emails that need initial processing . Alternately the vender could perform the functions of the promoter itself in which case the email processing server and the vender s web site server are the same computer and secondary processing would take place each time a respondent responds.

In the example of the first disclosed embodiment the email included only one advertisement. In practice however it may be advantageous to include multiple advertisements with the same or optionally different commission structure for each advertisement respondent.

In the first embodiment before storing each recipient the software may optionally search the previously stored recipients to determine if the recipient has already been identified as a recipient and stored during the initial processing of a previous transmission. If the recipient has already been stored as a recipient the recipient is not stored again.

In the case of emails that have been forwarded the body of each email will include the chain of transmitters who have received and then transmitted that email. In a second embodiment the email processing computer performs the initial processing as described above with respect to the first embodiment and also stores each email to be retrievable by the email index number. Once the secondary processing identifies the respondent as a recipient in the EMAIL table the email having the email index of the corresponding recipient is retrieved. The secondary processing then parses that email the body and or trailer to identify the transmitters that forwarded that email which was eventually received by the respondent. Only the most recent transmitters that are due a commission payable transmitters need be identified four in the first example. This embodiment allows the processing to identify the precise chain of emails and transmitters that led to the respondent receiving the transmission.

However sometimes recipients may cut and paste the body of the email into a new blank email to alleviate the need for future recipients to have to scroll down through the non substantive portion of the email the transmitter email addresses recipient email addresses and email trailers . In this embodiment when this occurs processing terminates without identifying all transmitters who are to receive incentives.

In the first embodiment the stored transmitter and recipients of each email is used to reconstruct a chain of transmitters and recipients. However some recipients may receive the transmission from multiple people and may not actually forward transmit to others the first email received but instead forward the fourth email received. In the first embodiment the processing simply assigns the incentive e.g. reward or commission to the first person to transmit the transmission to the recipient even if the recipient actually forwarded a subsequent email.

If necessary as dictated by the application or desired by the promoter the first and second embodiments may be combined to more accurately determine the actual transmitters that forwarded the email that eventually was received by a particular recipient. In such a combination after the email index and email is found containing the respondent as a recipient parsing of the entire email is the first step in identifying the actual transmitters as described in the second embodiment . In those cases where a person had cut and paste the substantive portion of the email into a new email and thus removes the identity of the previous recipients and transmitters from the email transmission the software then resorts to the secondary processing of the first disclosed embodiment of to identify the transmitter who forwarded the email to the recipient i.e. the transmitter of the email that had cut and paste the email content into a new email that was forwarded . The software in this third embodiment resorts to the secondary processing of the first embodiment when a transmitter of a transmission e.g. email cannot be identified as an original recipient.

Once the transmitter is identified as a recipient in an email by searching the recipients the processing retrieves the email received by that transmitter to determine if the actual chain of transmitters can be identified from the email. If the actual chain of transmitters cannot be found in an email the processing looks at the time at which each transmitter forwarded the email to that recipient to thereby eliminate some of the transmitters and to determine which of the remaining transmitters emails was the most likely to have been forwarded by that recipient. For example if transmitter A transmitted the email to recipient B who immediately forwarded the email transmitters who forwarded the email to recipient B after recipient B forwarded the email can be eliminated as being in the actual chain of emails that led to the respondent.

In the above disclosed embodiments the respondent provides the email address at which he or she received the email with the advertisement to the vender. Instead however the respondent could be asked to provide the email address of a person who forwarded the respondent the email with the advertisement. This eliminates the first step in the secondary processing.

In another embodiment the recipients do not forward the email to others. Instead the recipient is instructed to reply to the presently received transmission and to include in the reply the email addresses of all persons that the recipient wishes to receive the transmission e.g. advertisement . The reply is received at the transmission certification receptor. Thus in this fourth embodiment the recipients send only one email which is transmitted to the transmission certification receptor. The content of this email includes all the email addresses of people that this person wishes to receive the transmission. Thus instead of providing incentive for forwarding the transmission this embodiment provides incentive to persons for providing email addresses to the promoter. The promoter then determines the transmitter of each email received at the transmission certification receptor in the method described above and parses the body of the email to identify all of the email addresses provided by that transmitter. The promoter s broadcaster station then transmits an email to all of the email addresses supplied by that recipient with an indication in the email that their email address was provided by that transmitter e.g. Your email was provided to us by john company.com who thought you might find this email interesting. . Alternately the email may not provide any indication as to who provided the promoter with the recipient s email address.

Because all emails are transmitted by the promoter and subsequently replied to this embodiment allows the promoter to determine precisely who which transmitter caused the transmission to be transmitted to each recipient. This embodiment also allows each email address to be checked to determine if the email address has already received the advertisement transmission. The promoter may then elect to not resend the email advertisement to those recipients that have already received it.

Although this invention has been described in the context of transmitting an advertisement it has many other applications such as games of chance competitions as well as others.

Print advertisements are also used to drive traffic to web sites. Often however the person reading the print ad is not also in front of a computer to allow the individual to immediately access the web site if the individual desired to do so. Portable digital voice recorders have been developed that record a person s voice which is stored for later retrieval. The most common use of voice recorders is to alleviate the need to write down information that the user wishes to remember.

In this application of the invention a voice recorder is integrated with a writing implement i.e. ink pen to form a command holder as shown in . One end of the instrument functions as an ink pen while the other end of the command holder functions as a microphone . During use a user on an airplane may see a product in a gift magazine that the user wishes to buy for his father. The command holder allows the user to record the website address of the magazine advertisement and then record a relevant message such as website gifts.com stop buy product number 131323 golf club for dad for father s day. 

The audio input comprising a microphone is located near the first end of the command holder . An audio output comprising a miniature speaker is located near the middle of the command holder . Similarly near the middle of the command holder is an LCD and two finger operable buttons that allows the user to perform various functions such as determining the number of messages stored to delete or overwrite stored voice data.

In operation the user identifies a print advertisement or otherwise learns of a website address that the user wishes to store so that the user may access the web site when convenient to the user. The user actuates the select button until the microphone icon appears in the function area of the LCD . The user then actuates the first button and begins speaking into the microphone . To identify the voice data as a website the user will first says the word website and pauses before speaking the website to be stored. This identifies the subsequent voice data as a web address to the processing software. The user then speaks the web address e.g. gifts.com products pn123242 into the microphone . If the user wishes to record a relevant voice message regarding the website the user then speaks the word stop and then speaks the desired message into the microphone e.g. buy golf clubs for dad . When the user is done speaking into the microphone the user de actuates the first button to terminate recording.

The voice recorder is designed and functions as a conventional recording voice that is adapted to be communicatively coupled with a computer as is discussed below. In general however the speech is processed through a filter amplifier an analog to digital converter and stored in memory e.g. RAM . The command holder also has the capability of recording voice data that is not associated with a web address. To do so the user actuates the select button until the microphone icon appears and records the voice message as just described.

When not recording audio the LCD displays the number of voice recordings stored shown as 3 in . The user may then delete or overwrite previously stored data or listen to stored voice data. To scroll to a particular stored set of data the user actuates the select button until the scroll icon appears in the function area of the display . The user then actuates the first button until the data index e.g. 5 of the stored data of interest is displayed on the LCD . The number one i.e. 1 represents an empty storage location so that the user may record a new message without overwriting a previously stored message. When a new message is stored the data indexes of all the messages including the just stored message are incremented thus leaving data index one empty. When the data storage device is full to capacity the LCD will not display a data index of one thus indicating the storage device is full. Alternately the command holder may be designed so that the highest number is always an empty data index except when the command holder memory is full at which time the LCD displays visual indicia indicating memory is full.

When the user gets to the data index of interest the user may delete the voice message by actuating the select button until the delete icon X appears in the function area of the LCD . The user then actuates the first button to delete the voice data. The user may also overwrite the voice data. To overwrite a voice message the user actuates the select button until the microphone icon is displayed in the function area of the LCD and then proceeds to record a voice message as described above at the data index containing the message to be overwritten. To listen to the voice message the user actuates the select button until the speaker icon is displayed and then actuates the first button . The recorded voice message is then audibly produced at speaker . Thus the user may decide to re record delete or retain voice messages according the methods described.

When the user wishes to access the data stored in the command holder the user places the command holder in a docking station not shown which facilitates the command holder being communicatively and electrically coupled to the user s viewing station . Placing the command holder in the docking station automatically triggers the start execution of the command software application that resides on the viewing station hereinafter command software . The operation of the voice recorder and connection of the voice recorder to a computer through a docking station is well known in the art. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 6 038 199 to Pawlowski et al. which provides an example of implementing a voice recorder and connecting the voice recorder to a computer through a docking station is hereby incorporated by reference.

The command software downloads all of the information from the command holder onto the viewing station memory device e.g. hard drive . The voice data files are processed to determine the text that is stored in memory. The first step is accomplished through conventional voice recognition software which converts spoken words into text e.g. ASCII . Processing of voice through the use of voice recognition software is well known in the art and the details thereof are not therefore repeated here. For example ViaVoice Gold a commercially available voice recognition software package by IBM includes a speech navigator for Internet Explorer 4.0 as well as VoiceCenter a Windows voice commander that launches applications and opens documents according to voice commands. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 5 615 296 to Stanford et al. which provides an example of implementing speech recognition is hereby incorporated by reference.

The output of the voice recognition software is a text version of the spoken words. Next the command software parses the converted text to identify the word website and the word stop. The text between the words website and stop are then identified to be a web page address and is stored in memory as such. Words stored in the same data index that follow the word stop if any are stored as a voice message indexed to the identified web page address.

The command software automatically downloads and processes all of the voice data files and displays each web page address as a separate row as text in a column in the main menu on the viewing station display. For those data indexes that also include voice data a the first seven words of the voice message are displayed as text and a sound icon is displayed next the text on the main menu. The first seven words of the voice message provide the user with a reminder as to the content of the entire voice message.

By using the viewing stations pointing device e.g. the mouse the user can click on the web address text meaning actuate the appropriate actuator of the pointing device while the cursor of the pointing device is displayed over the web address which will cause the command software to open the default web browser to access transmit a request for the web page that was stored and converted to the displayed text. Likewise the user can click on the sound icon which will cause the command software to audibly produce the voice data that was recorded at that data index.

In the present embodiment the voice data is converted to text. However in some circumstances e.g. when there is no stored website address the voice data need not be converted to text but is simply stored on the viewing station as voice data to be retrieved by the user. For example if the command holder had a number of memory locations that were preselected for storage of web pages the remaining storage locations would be known to be only voice and converting the data stored in those memory locations to text would not be necessary. In this alternate embodiment the first seven words of the voice message are not displayed on the main menu.

The command software also has the capability to go a step further at the option of the user by converting the entire voice message to text and parsing the text for particular words. For example after speaking the web address and the word stop the user then speaks buy card corporate American express delivery home shipping normal. The command software parses this text opens the default web browser to access the web address that was stored and converted to the displayed text e.g. www.gifts.com products pn123242 . This web address is the web page that a person would access to purchase a particular product but could be any information provided by a vender to allow the user to purchase a particular product . After the word stop the software identifies the word buy which is recognized by the software to be the previously stored command to place an order. The next words are card American Express which identify which of the previously stored credit files containing the appropriate credit card information such as credit card number associated expiration date billing address and card name to be used to make the purchase.

Portions of web pages that request information from user s are often referred to as forms. The beginning of a form in HTML can be recognized by the use of the form command e.g. . As is well known to those skilled in the art the text in quotes after the word action indicates where the form i.e. the viewer s viewing station will send the requested information. Information that is being transmitted to the processing web page i.e. the web page that receives the form data is transmitted along with the request for the web page. For example the viewing station might transmit http www.emails.com scripts mailform.pl clients email john company.com which passes the information john company.com as the variable clients email to the processing web page http www.emails.com scripts mailform.pl .

Most web forms are written in HTML and typically use the same HTML command the input command e.g. to prompt the viewer for data Likewise the forms often use the same or similar variable labels for each requested piece of information. For example for the person s name HTML forms often use the label NAME or Last Name First Name and Middle Initial. For the address the forms often use ADDRESS CITY STATE COUNTRY and ZIPCODE. The command software processes the web page and parses the web page for all the predetermined stored labels that are used in common purchase forms. In other words the command software looks for the input command on the web page and then determines the variable label to which the user s input would be assigned e.g. name user would indicate the variable is user to determine what information is to be supplied.

The command software then transmits the appropriate information for each variable label to the web page server or broadcast station thus emulating the user filling out the form and clicking on the Submit button. In instances in which the command software has been taught what information needs to be transmitted to a particular processing page the command software may not need to request the web page containing a form. Instead the command software simply transmits the necessary information to the processing web page.

The command software also parses the words delivery home which instructs the command software to use the user s home address previously stored in memory as the address for delivery. Finally the command software parses the words normal delivery which instructs the command software to request normal or standard delivery of the purchased item s .

Until an industry standard develops the command software may have to be trained to interact with websites that have elaborate or unusual forms and or which the user accesses frequently. For example if a user often purchases books through Amazon.com the user may wish to train the command software to interface with the Amazon.com web site. To train the command software the user accesses the website of Amazon.com and selects a product for purchase. Next the user puts the command software in watch mode and provides user input indicating that the following information should be stored with a buy book command. The user then completes the forms to purchase the book and takes the command software out of the watch mode. The command software thus stores the number and address of the web page forms the labels representing data that is requested by the web pages the type of information that is supplied by the user by comparing the information provided by the user e.g. a credit card number with the categories of user related stored information and any other relevant necessary information. Subsequently when the command software receives the buy book command the software will complete the Amazon.com form s with a much greater likelihood of providing the correct information. The watch mode is especially applicable for use with websites that are frequently accessed such as for trading stock making hotel restaurant or travel reservations reserving golf tee times and buying music electronics or books. Instead of actually accessing the forms the software may provided the web site is designed appropriately simply send the required variable labels and associated information to the processing web page s that receives purchase information e.g. http www.golf.com purchase.cfm product callowaydriver . . . 

Most user data is stored in the memory of the viewing station in categories that correspond to categories of data requested by web page forms. For example the various credit card numbers of the user s credit cards are stored in the credit card category. Credit card expiration dates are similarly stored in the credit card expiration category. This method of storing the user s data allows the command software to determine by identifying the category of data supplied by the user during watch mode which category of information a particular variable label on a web page should be supplied with. Thus the command software does not limit the user to providing the particular data that was supplied during the watch mode.

The user may also or optionally instead of access the command software through the use of a cellular or standard telephone. The user simply calls his home at which time his viewing station or home computer is programmed to answer telephone calls and act as an answering machine. Those skilled in the art are familiar with setting up a computer to act as an answering machine to store and retrieve voice messages and software for doing so is commercially available.

After the home computer answers the telephone call and begins producing the outgoing message e.g. thanks for calling I m not home right now . . . the user presses two predetermined keys e.g. 1 and 2 on the key pad of the telephone. The home computer receives and recognizes the predetermined tones resulting from the user pressing the two keys stops producing the outgoing message and awaits a command. The user then speaks the message to the computer which as described above is website gifts.com products pn123242 stop buy card corporate American Express delivery home shipping normal. The user may then hang up or press another predetermined key e.g. 3 to have the command software process the website address and command at which time the command software will audibly produce the converted web page address and command to the user. If the user wishes to place another command the user presses still another predetermined key e.g. 4 and begins speaking the next message e.g. a web page address and command .

Upon receiving the telephone call the command software stores the entire spoken message in memory for processing. If the user presses the second predetermined key the software begins processing immediately. As previously discussed the voice message is converted to text through the use of voice recognition software which is well known in the art. The command software then performs the parsing as described above to parse out the web page address and the command. By using appropriate voice synthesis software the command software then audibly produces meaning transmits over the telephone connection for audible reception by the user the word website followed by the web page address converted from the stored voice data e.g. gifts.com products pn123242 . The command holder then audibly produces the word command followed by the interpreted command i.e. the command converted from the stored voice data in this example buy card corporate American Express delivery home shipping normal. 

If the user determines that the command software has correctly interpreted the command the user may hang up or presses another predetermined key e.g. 5 to indicate that the voice message has been correctly interpreted.

In addition to providing information to make purchases the telephone may also be used to receive information. For example the user may ask the command software to read emails or get the next days forecast. The user may put the command software in watch mode and input information into the command software that the user inputs are for retrieving email i.e. for the email command . After the user opens all of the emails the user then takes the command software out of the watch mode. The command software then stores all of the user inputs e.g. usernames passwords mailboxes etc. used by the user to access the emails.

When the command software accesses the emails as a result of the email command the software audibly produces for audible reception by the user the subject line of the email and the transmitter of the email followed by the body of the email. The user can press predetermined keys on the telephone to delete save reply to or forward followed by speaking the email address of the recipients the email.

Likewise the watch mode can be used to teach the command software to access a particular web page retrieve certain information and audibly produce that information to the user. For example during watch mode for retrieval of a forecast the user accesses a particular website and highlights a particular phrase such as tomorrow s forecast and provides input instructing the command software to store that phrase as the web page trigger. The user next highlights the next phrase s and provides user input instructing the command software to store the highlighted phrase as the site content text to be retrieved and produced to the user when the user provides the forecast command.

Thus when the user states forecast the command software retrieves the current web page at the stored web address parses the text to identify the web page trigger tomorrow s forecast retrieves the site content text the text adjacent to the web page trigger until reaching HTML codes and audibly produces the retrieved phrase to the user. If necessary the user may also highlight and store an end content trigger so that the command software audibly produces all content between the two triggers. In these fashions the user may create and teach the command software as many commands as desired.

The command software also responds to input from the microphone of the computer which saves the user time in manually connecting to the internet if necessary meaning starting the ISP software and logging in accessing a particular web page s filling in web forms finding information on particular web pages and or opening emails.

In another embodiment of the present invention a scanner is integrated with a writing implement i.e. ink pen to form a command holder. One end of the instrument functions as an ink pen while the other end of the command holder functions as a scanner. Instead of scanning codes however the scanner is adapted to scan and record printed text. In addition the command holder also includes a microphone to allow the user to store voice data relating to the website that is scanned and stored.

In this embodiment the first end of the command holder includes the print scanner that scans the text image representing the URL or web address e.g. www.EarnAndInvest.com . In the present embodiment the image of the web address is scanned and stored as digital data but not converted to text until the image is downloaded to the host computer. An audio input comprising a microphone is located near the middle of the command holder as well as an audio output comprising a miniature speaker . Similarly near the middle of the command holder is an LCD and two finger operable buttons that allows the user to perform various functions with the command holder such as allowing the user to determine the number of web addresses stored to store data and to delete or overwrite stored voice data or web address data.

In operation the user will identify a print advertisement that the user wishes to store so that the user may access the web address when convenient to the user. The user actuates the select button until the scan icon is displayed on the LCD in the function area . The user then places the first end of the command holder at the left edge of the web address and actuates the first button to turn the scanner on. The scanner in this embodiment is adapted to scan one line of text. The user moves the command holder from left to right over the web address at a substantially constant speed. When the scanner has been moved to the right edge of the text the user de actuates the first button to turn the scanner off. In the present embodiment the first end of the command holder also includes a scan wheel that stores the speed at which the command holder is moved across the text. In other words the speed at which the scan wheel rolls across the print ad is recorded in the command holder to allow the processing software to compensate for variations in the speed of movement of the command holder by the user. In this embodiment the wheel is always placed and rolls along the top edge of the text so that the scanned image is always oriented in the same direction.

The scanning of the text activates the LCD display which prompts the user to enter voice data at the same data index in memory by displaying the microphone icon in the function area . If the user does not wish to enter any voice data the user simply actuates the select button until the microphone icon disappears. If the user does wish to enter voice data the user actuates the first button and begins speaking into the microphone . Generally and as is well known in the art the speech storage is accomplished with a filter amplifier analog to digital converter and stored in memory e.g. RAM . The stored speech is indexed to be associated with the recently scanned text i.e. stored at the same data index . The command holder also has the capability of recording voice data that is not associated with a web address. To do so the user actuates the select button until the microphone icon appears in the function area of the LCD . Then the user records the voice message as previously described.

When not scanning or recording audio the LCD displays a number representing the total of 1 the number of scanned images with or without associated voice recordings and 2 the number of voice recordings that do not have an associated stored image. The user may then delete or overwrite previously stored data or listen to stored voice data. To scroll to a particular stored set of data the user actuates the select button until the scroll icon appears in the function area of the LCD. The user then actuates the first button until the data index e.g. 5 of the stored data of interest is displayed on the LCD . As the user scrolls through the stored data two icons may be displayed on the LCD . The sound icon shaped like a human hear is displayed to indicate that the stored data includes voice data and the image icon shaped like an eye is displayed to indicate that the stored data includes image data. Both or either may be displayed as dictated by the type of data that is stored at that data index. If neither icon appears the data index is empty. Until the data storage device is full to capacity the LCD will always display at least one data index for which neither the sound or image icon is displayed. This data index is normally at the end of all the data indexes containing data and therefore having the highest data index but might be a data index for which the user has deleted all data. To record new data the user scrolls to a data index for which neither icon is displayed before recording.

When the user gets to the data index of interest the user may delete the voice message and image by actuating the select button until the delete icon X appears in the function area of the LCD . The user then actuates the first button to delete the image and voice data. The user may also overwrite either the image data or voice data or both. To overwrite the image data the user actuates the select button until the scan icon is displayed in the function area of the LCD and then proceeds to scan an image as described above. Likewise to overwrite a voice message the user actuates the select button until the microphone icon is displayed in the function area of the LCD and then proceeds to record a voice message as described above. To listen to the voice message the user actuates the select button until the speaker icon is displayed in the function area of the LCD and then actuates the first button . The recorded voice message is then audibly produced at the speaker . Thus the user may then decide to re record delete or retain the voice message according the methods described. Listening to the voice message of course is only possible for data indexes in which the sound icon is displayed indicating that the data index includes voice data.

When the user wishes to access the data stored in the command holder the user places the command holder in a docking station which is communicatively and electrically coupled to the user s viewing station . Placing the command holder in the docking station automatically triggers the start execution of the command software application that resides on the viewing station hereinafter command software .

The command software downloads all of the stored information from the command holder onto the viewing station memory device e.g. hard drive . The image files are processed to convert them to text that is stored in memory. Generally this is accomplished by normalizing the digital information representing the scanned text according to the stored wheel speed. For portions of the image in which the recorded wheel speed is below a predetermined speed the digital image is compressed laterally proportionally. In other words the further the wheel speed is below the predetermined speed the more the digital image is compressed. For portions of the image in which the recorded wheel speed is above a predetermined speed which may be higher than the first predetermined speed the digital image is stretched laterally proportionally. The stretching of the digital image need only be performed when the wheel speed is so high that the digital image will be unrecognizable by the optical character recognition software. Thus this wheel speed and the need to stretch the digital image are dependent on various factors including the quality of the scanned image the sampling rate of the scanner the lateral size and spacing of the text being scanned and other factors.

Once the image is normalized it is processed by character recognition software which is used to convert the image to a text. Character recognition software is well known in the art and the details thereof are not repeated here. The output of the character recognition software is text e.g. the web page address that corresponds to the scanned image.

The command software automatically downloads and processes all of the scanned images and displays them as text e.g. web addresses in the main menu. For those data indexes that include both image and voice data a sound icon is displayed next to the text. For those data indexes that include only voice data a sound icon is displayed next to a blank text area on the main menu.

By using the viewing station s pointing device e.g. the mouse the user can click on the text which will cause the command software to open the default web browser to access the web page represented by the text that was scanned in and converted to the displayed text . Likewise the user can click on the sound icon which will cause the command software to audibly produce the voice data that was recorded at that data index on the viewing station s speaker .

Although the command holder in these examples is disclosed as integrated with an ink pen the command holder could be integrated with a pager a telephone a cellular phone personal communication device a digital personal assistant a handheld computer e.g. Palm VII or could be designed as a stand alone device. With respect to handheld devices the processing power of the handheld computer would allow the device to immediately convert the scanned image and or voice message to text thereby providing additional confidence to the user that the correct data was stored. In addition if the handheld computer includes a wireless or wired connection to the internet the handheld computer could at the user s discretion immediately access the website and perform the commands providing an audible and or visual output at the conclusion of the commands e.g. providing confirmation of a stock trade or purchase . Furthermore because handheld computers include some form of user input the user could optionally provide user input by clicking on an icon to instruct the command software to execute a command previously learned in watch mode to convey information about the web site or to use the stylus to input the web page address and select the credit card and command from pull down menus . In addition with the use of the stylus and internet connection the handheld device prompts the user for additional information when the software processes a web form that includes form labels that are unknown to the command software.

In an alternate embodiment the command holder includes removable memory that is adapted to dock with the docking station to allow the computer to retrieve the stored data. The removable memory allows for additional storage should the first memory module become full and allows multiple users each with their own memory module to use the same command holder. In the present embodiment the scanner is moved across the printed text to scan the text. In an alternate embodiment the scanner is elongated to allow the scanning of the entire line of printed text without movement of the command holder which would alleviate the need for the wheel.

Although the two examples of the command holder include using a voice recorder and scanner to store information any suitable method of obtaining and storing information might be used such as swiping a magnetic card containing web address and purchase information.

In the next application of the present invention through the viewer s viewing station the viewer accesses a web site hosted on a broadcast station . After accessing the web site the viewer has a selection of categories of broadcasts. For example the viewer may select from categories of sports education news finance health entertainment and art. After accessing a particular category in a conventional fashion such as by clicking on the hyper link a new web page is presented to the viewer and the viewer may select from a set of subcategories within the selected category. The term clicking on an image refers to the well known actuation of the appropriate actuator e.g. left mouse button of the pointing device e.g. mouse while the cursor of the pointing device is displayed over the image e.g. hyperlink to be clicked. However any suitable method of providing user input for the selections may be used including keyboard inputs voice inputs or others. For example when the viewer selects sports the viewer may then select from the subcategories of football hockey baseball and basketball. If the viewer selected the entertainment category the viewer could then select one of the categories of science fiction drama horror and documentary. After selecting a subcategory the viewer may then select a particular broadcast from a selection of broadcasts. For example when the viewer selects the football subcategory under the sports category the viewer may then select a particular football game broadcast e.g. Redskins vs. Cowboys . Likewise if the viewer selects the science fiction subcategory under the entertainment category the viewer could then select a particular movie broadcast e.g. Star Wars . The selection of certain broadcasts products responses and selections throughout this application of the invention is accomplished by the viewer clicking on the portion of the display representing the desired broadcast product response or selection.

The present embodiment will be further described in the context of the viewer selecting a particular football game. However as will be recognized to one skilled in the art the principles and concepts described are applicable to a wide range of applications.

After the user selects a particular football game the viewing station sends a request to receive that particular football game transmission. The broadcaster receives the request and provided the viewer is authorized to receive the broadcast commences transmission of the football game as well as additional information that allows the viewer to customize the viewer s viewing of the football game. For example the transmission includes options that the viewer can select that include a plurality of different selectable camera perspectives camera transmissions . Professional football games are normally continuously filmed videoed from numerous cameras strategically positioned around the football game so that regardless of the location of play on the playing field at least some of the cameras are positioned to obtain video that is suitable for broadcasting. Typically a director will select which camera of the many cameras covering the game is broadcast to viewers and the selection changes often and repeatedly throughout the game.

In the present embodiment the viewer can select to receive any number and combination of available camera transmissions that the transmission rate will support . For example the viewer may select an endzone camera transmission and an aerial camera transmission direct overhead perspective therefore simultaneously viewing two camera transmissions. As the focus of play moved away from the endzone the viewer may select other more appropriate camera transmissions. In addition the viewer may also select the director s selection of camera transmissions.

In addition to camera transmission the viewer may also select particular audio transmission s . For example the viewer may select one of a number of different sets of commentator transmissions with the option of also selecting or alternatively selecting a music audio transmission and or a football playing field transmission to hear player discussions hits referee discussions etc. 

In addition to requesting particular camera transmissions and audio transmissions the viewer can also select to receive various informational transmissions. For example the viewer can select to receive statistical information for display. This might include the number of passes completed by a quarterback the number of passes attempted and the number of interceptions and touchdowns thrown by the quarterback. The particular statistical information e.g. quarterback statistics running back statistics defense statistics offense statistics can be selected by the viewer for display until new statistics are requested. The viewer can also select a director s statistical informational transmission that will change so as to stay pertinent to events of the football game. For example when a football team elects to attempt a field goal the statistics transmitted and displayed would relate to field goals e.g. total attempts attempts made etc. . When a team elects to punt the punter s statistics are transmitted e.g. average hang time average length etc. as well as the punt returner s statistics e.g. average return longest return etc. . Unlike television in which the director s selected statistics are often displayed the present invention allows the viewer to select which statistics to view to view statistics continuously or to suppress some or all of them.

Other information may also be transmitted in the informational transmission s . For example in jurisdictions where it is appropriate the viewer may request a wagering transmission that allows the viewer to see the point spread of the football game being viewed or odds spreads and or scores for other sporting events. In addition the wagering transmission allows the viewer to immediately place wagers on the football game other sporting events or events in the football game. For example the viewer may elect to place a one hundred dollar wager that the field goal kicker will make an upcoming field goal by clicking on the appropriate portion of the display displaying the wagering transmission data. After the field goal attempt the transmission displays the viewer s wagering account balance amount won or lost for the field goal bet and the amount won or lost cumulatively for the game and day. Similarly a viewer may participate in an armchair quarterback contest in which the viewer competes against other viewers in attempting to guess the next offensive play or the result of the next play e.g. touch down or first down . The viewer s success on the most recent play the viewer s score and relatively score in comparison to other viewers scores is transmitted to the viewer s viewing station for display. In this embodiment the informational transmission is transmitted as standard HTML code that is frequently updated by the broadcast station. Alternately the informational transmissions could be sent in audio format instead of for display with appropriate selections e.g. available wagers being transmitted as HTML for display.

With respect to any selection of camera transmissions audio transmissions and information transmissions the software through activation by the viewer will save the selected configuration of transmissions as a broadcast profile. Thus when the viewer views a football game the viewer may save the selection of video perspectives audio transmissions and information transmissions as a broadcast profile for football. At the next occasion in which the viewer is watching a football game the user can select that broadcast profile which causes the viewing station software to transmit the requests for the desired transmissions to the broadcaster.

In the preferred embodiment viewers can receive a broadcast transmission in digital form for either live viewing or on demand viewing in which the broadcast is modified from its original form. The broadcast in this example is a movie but the present invention is suitable for use with any transmission that a viewer wishes modify such as television shows comic presentations sporting events and news broadcasts.

For example a parent might wish to remove objectionable language e.g. profanity from the audio portion of a movie. In the first example of this application a text e.g. ASCII version of the audio portion which is indexed to the audio portion is transmitted with normal audio and video portions of the movie. The viewer can then replace the profanity in the movie with less offensive words more suitable for younger viewers. More specifically by activation by the viewer the viewer s station s software searches for language that is deemed by the viewer to be offensive and replaces the language with less offensive language.

For example the software includes a list of offensive words such as the word damn. Once the software finds this word in the text file the software replaces the word damn in the audio portion of the broadcast with the word darn. This is accomplished by finding the spoken word or phrase in the audio transmission and measuring certain characteristics of the word that was spoken to construct a replacement word having similar characteristics. For example once the software finds the word damn in the text the software then analyzes the corresponding portion of the audio to measure the volume amplitude pitch frequency duration and other well known voice characteristics necessary for the software to construct the replacement word so that it provides the same or similar theatrical impact and without impacting the surrounding audio. In addition background noise music voices or other audio may be retained by the software as deemed necessary for the application by the designer. The software includes a list of offensive words or phrases that the viewer may select from or add to by providing appropriate viewer input to the viewing station. For example some viewers may not find the word damn offensive but find only sexually explicit terms offensive. Other viewers may find only racially derogatory terms offensive. The software thus allows viewers to censor broadcasts to their own tastes.

The software also allows viewers to select and store a plurality of different viewer profiles. For example parents may elect to remove all offensive language sexually explicit language and non sexually explicit language from movies for viewing by their children. This set of undesirable language can be stored as one viewer profile. The parents may also remove all offensive non sexually explicit language but not the sexually explicit language from movies for viewing by themselves. This set of undesirable language can be stored as a second viewer profile. Thus by storing the various viewer profiles of the viewers the software allows the viewer to quickly edit the broadcast so that it includes only the language the viewer deems non offensive.

For some broadcast transmissions the broadcaster of the transmission may also transmits replacement audio. The replacement audio includes words spoken by the actual actors and actresses of the movie that are generally less offensive then the word used in the movie. For example the actress may have used the word damn in the movie while the actress or impersonator spoke the word darn as replacement audio. The phrases of the replacement audio transmission are indexed for easy replacement of the corresponding words in the original audio transmission by the software. Alternately the portion of the audio transmission containing the offensive term may be deleted.

The present embodiment also has the capability of modifying the transmission when no text portion or replacement audio is transmitted. The viewing station software includes voice recognition software that finds the objectionable language in the audio. For customization of stored broadcasts e.g. on demand viewing the voice recognition software converts the entire audio to text and then performs a text search for the objectionable language and replaces the objectionable language. For live broadcasts however the software converts each word to text determines if that word is objectionable by comparing the word to the list of objectionable language e.g. from a viewer profile and replaces that word if it is objectionable. For live broadcasts depending on the speed of the CPU of the viewing station the viewing station may need to buffer the received transmission to allow for processing and modification of the audio and video.

In an alternate embodiment the voice recognition software does not convert the words to text. Instead the words are recognized as being objectionable or not without converting them to text. The audio characteristics necessary to recognize each word are compared to the characteristics of the list of objectionable stored words to determine if the word is an objectionable word and is to be replaced. In practice this comparison may include numerous mathematical computations that are well known in the art of voice recognition and will not be repeated here.

The viewer s software also allows removal of objectionable video. Violent scenes are indexed by the originator of the broadcast or creator of the movie and can be removed or swapped with alternative scenes supplied by the broadcaster by the viewer resulting in a movie more suitable for younger viewers. For example the indexing of the violent scenes is such that the viewer may elect to modify a R rated movie to remove the appropriate scenes so that it becomes substantially equivalent to a PG rated movie. Again the viewer may create numerous viewer profiles removing violent and sexual scenes from movies and selecting ratings e.g. G PG or R for modification for younger viewers and only removing violent scenes or selecting different ratings for other viewers.

The viewer may also select topics of interest that are transmitted to a broadcast station. For example a viewer may select investing unidentified flying objects and bigfoot as the viewer s topics of interests. For each topic of interest provided by the viewer additional broadcast information is also provided by the viewer such as the type of broadcast transmission e.g. fiction or nonfiction movie or documentary video and audio or just audio etc. length of the broadcast e.g. less than two hours cost of the broadcast e.g. free or less than five dollars . The available selections of topics of interest and requested broadcast information are design choices based on the types of available broadcast transmissions costs and other factors. For example if a broadcast station offered only free broadcast transmissions the cost of the broadcast transmission would be additional broadcast information that the viewer need not supply.

These viewer broadcast requests the viewer s topic of interests and additional broadcast information are manually input into a web page form transmitted to the broadcast station and the information is stored in memory at the broadcast station. At regular intervals e.g. weekly followed by a notification transmission to the viewer of any matching broadcast transmission s e.g. via email or in response to a request by the viewer the computer of the broadcast station searches the available broadcast transmissions to determine whether there are any broadcast transmissions available that match the viewer s broadcast requests. Because the viewer in this example provided three topics of interest the broadcast station will need to perform three searches. In each of the three searches the first step is to screen out i.e. eliminate as a possible match all broadcast transmissions that do not match the additional broadcast information supplied with the topic of interest. In this example the viewer requested the topic of interest investing and supplied the additional broadcast information of nonfiction. Thus during the search for the topic of interest of investing described below the broadcast station will only search those broadcast transmissions that are nonfiction. In other words the broadcast station only searches qualified broadcast transmissions which are those transmissions that match the additional broadcast information supplied by the viewer for the associated topic of interest.

In the first searching method the broadcast station searches the topic phrases when available that are stored along with each qualified broadcast transmissions. The topic phrases are in the form of a summary of the associated broadcast transmission for some broadcast transmissions and for other broadcast transmissions the topic phrases are simply phrases that reflect the topics that are included in the associated broadcast transmission e.g. investing stocks stock investing investments .

In the second searching method text versions of the audio portion of the qualified broadcast transmissions are searched to determine whether the broadcast transmissions contain audio that includes the topics of interest. In the above example the text versions of the qualified broadcast transmissions are searched to determine whether they contain any of the three phrases investing unidentified flying objects or bigfoot . In some instances the text version of the audio is supplied by the originator of the broadcast station. For those broadcast transmissions for which there is no text version and there are no topic phrases available the broadcast station converts the audio portion of the broadcast transmission to text and stores the text for searching.

When the searching is complete a list of broadcast transmissions matching the viewer s broadcast requests are transmitted to the viewer s viewing station for presentation to the viewer to allow the viewer to request particular broadcast transmissions for viewing.

The viewer may also provide feedback to the broadcaster about the broadcast whether it be a movie commercial educational or other type of broadcast by answering appropriate questions. The questions are transmitted by the broadcast station at appropriate times during the transmission while the broadcast continues at a break in the transmission where feedback is desired or at the end of the broadcast transmission. The question s may take up a portion of the viewer s display be on a separate display be audio only or overlay the viewer s display. Feedback can also be provided through the use of biofeedback devices that monitor the viewer s physical responses to the broadcast such as the viewer s blood pressure skin temperature heart rate and brain activity e.g. EEG . The feedback may be transmitted live to the broadcaster a third party recipient or saved and transmitted later e.g. when the feedback gathering process is complete . As is well known in the art biofeedback monitoring devices that are adapted to function with standard a Windows PC are commercially available and their operation and design therefore is not described here.

As an example of the use of viewer feedback the creator of a movie may wish to get viewers reactions to one of a plurality e.g. three different endings to a movie. The three versions of the movie incorporating the three different endings are broadcast to three different test groups. Based on the biofeedback reaction of the viewers and or answers to questions the creator of the movie may more confidently select the best ending to put in the final version of the movie for release to the general population.

Another application of the present embodiment incorporating the viewer s input being transmitted to the broadcast station allows the viewer to interact with a broadcast transmission e.g. a movie by providing viewer inputs that are used in part to determine the content of portions of the broadcast transmission. For example at a critical juncture in a movie a viewer may provide input that determines whether the hero immediately returns for the girl or slays the villain. The remainder of the movie will be determined in part on the selection of the viewer. The transmission of the movie may require numerous inputs from the viewer which allows the transmission to have many different story plots and outcomes.

In addition to requiring the viewer to select a course of action or otherwise make a selection of some kind some transmissions require the viewer to engage in a game of skill that determines the content of the remaining transmission. For example when the hero enters a room full of villains the hero engages in a shoot out with the villains. The viewer may then be required to click on each villain which is registered as a hit before the hero moves to the next scene of the movie. If the viewer fails to click on all the villains within an allotted time the hero is slain.

When a viewer is viewing a broadcast the viewer s identity is known to the broadcaster either because the viewer has supplied his or her identity when purchasing the broadcast or the viewing station supplies the identity from information e.g. a cookie stored on the viewing station. For example when the viewer logs in to the broadcast station the viewer s identity e.g. the viewer s username name or group of the viewer becomes known by the broadcast station. Knowing the identity of the viewer allows the broadcaster to record various information about the viewer including the interests likes dislikes typical times when the viewer views a broadcast purchasing information of the viewer e.g. credit card related information etc. which is stored by the broadcaster as a customer profile. The initial data of the customer profile may include information resulting from answers by the customer to questions from the broadcaster the type of viewing station demographic information etc. Information is added deleted or modified in the customer profile as new information becomes available to the broadcaster from additional questions purchases made by the viewer viewing times of the purchaser the types of broadcasts selected by the viewer etc.

As is well known to the general public commercials are intermittently broadcast to viewers during a requested transmission e.g. a movie or sitcom . However in the case of television and radio the same commercials are broadcast to all viewers. Once a customer profile has been established however the present embodiment allows the broadcaster to select and transmit commercials containing products that are more likely to be of interest to the viewer. In addition the broadcaster may customize the commercial so that the product has attributes that are likely to be more appealing to the viewer. The viewer is therefore more likely to purchase the product or service and the broadcaster will receive more compensation from each advertiser.

For example if a customer profile indicates viewer A is a male nonsmoker who likes sports cars enjoys playing basketball the broadcaster will broadcast fewer or no commercials to viewer A for cigarettes feminine products or trucks. Instead the broadcaster will transmit commercials containing products that are more likely to be of interest to viewer A such as commercials for sports cars and basketball shoes. Thus the broadcaster station software examines the likes and dislikes of viewers to select commercials containing products for transmission to particular viewers that are more likely to be of interest to the viewer. The bank of commercials are identified in memory e.g. a database by a unique identifier along with the types of viewers that more likely to find the commercial of interest. For example the unique identifier of each cosmetic commercial is stored with information indicating that it is more likely to be interesting to female viewers. Likewise the unique identifier of each commercial containing a basketball shoe is stored with information indicating that it is likely to be interesting to viewers who are sports fans and even more likely to be of interest to viewers who play basketball. The number of different degrees of interest in a commercial that is stored is a design choice that is dependent on the amount of information collected from the viewers the variation of interests of the viewers the number of different products available and other factors.

The customer profile also allows the broadcaster to customize commercials to the viewer s likes dislikes financial qualifications and or other qualifications. For example if the customer profile indicates that the viewer s favorite color is blue the broadcaster can then customize a commercial relating to a sports car to be a commercial with a blue sports car instead of black sports car. Likewise a music CD commercial may be customized to include the music CD of an artist that is liked by the viewer. Similarly a restaurant commercial can be customized to be that of restaurant of the type liked by the viewer seafood and that is local to the viewer and provided with the address of the restaurant. As another example a commercial relating to a timeshare or house of a greater expense may be transmitted to those viewer s known to have a high net worth or income or who are known to be financially qualified to purchase the product.

To accomplish this customizing the broadcaster station software examines the likes dislikes and qualifications of viewers to select commercials for transmission to that viewer that are more likely to be of interest to the viewer and or for which the viewer is qualified to purchase . As discussed above the commercials stored in the bank of commercials of products are identified in memory e.g. a database by a unique identifier along with the types of viewers that more likely to find the commercial of interest. Each commercial relating to a specific product e.g. a car is present in the bank in a multitude of variations of the commercial with each variation having different attributes. Once a commercial s product is selected e.g. a sports car the variations of commercials for that product are compared to the likes dislikes and qualifications in the customer s profile. Using the above example viewer A will receive a sports car commercial depicting a blue sports car while others interested in sports cars may receive the same commercial but with the sports car being a different color.

When a commercial is being viewed by the viewer the viewer may click on a portion of the advertisement to purchase the product. Typically advertisements commercials are an attempt to sell a single product. As a result as described with respect to the command software the viewing station in this embodiment includes memory in which the viewer has previously stored the viewer s purchase information e.g. address name credit card information etc. . Thus by clicking anywhere in window that is displaying the commercial of the product or alternately on a displayed buy icon the viewing station software automatically purchases the product in the commercial in a method such as described with respect to the command software above . Alternately for some products e.g. cars the viewer may click on get information icon transmitted by the broadcaster to have additional information transmitted to the buyer such as the options price delivery time taxes etc. . The additional information is transmitted immediately and presented to the viewer in a separate window on the viewing station. At the viewer s discretion the additional information may alternately be mailed to viewer or emailed to the viewer.

For commercials that advertise a plurality of products portions of the display which correlate to the image of the advertised product may be clicked on by the viewer to purchase the product. In other words images on the broadcasted commercial overlay hyperlinks hot spots that may be actuated by moving the pointing device e.g. mouse cursor to the image and clicking the pointing device. The hyperlink web address is the address of the web page for obtaining product information and or for purchasing the product.

At the option of the viewer the viewing station may store commercials for later retrieval to allow a viewer to think about a product or service before making the decision to purchase. All or only selected commercials may be stored as desired by the viewer.

In addition to purchasing products in commercials the viewer may click on a product in a movie to purchase a product. Because not all objects in a movie may be purchased the viewer is provided an available for purchase indication by the broadcaster. In the present embodiment when the viewer moves the pointing device mouse cursor over an object on the display that is available for purchase the price of the object is displayed. When the viewer moves the pointing device over an object on the display that is not available for purchase no price is displayed. When the viewer clicks on an object that is available for purchase the viewing station places the object in a conventional shopping cart which the user may review and confirm the viewer s desire to purchase the products at the end of the broadcast transmission. Likewise the viewer may request additional information about products that are available for purchase. The viewer may pause the presentation or click on the moving video.

Optionally the viewer may replay the stored transmission and modify the color or other attributes of the product of interest before purchasing the product. In doing so the viewing station software examines the digital information representing the video. Those bits of information representing images that are not modifiable by the viewer are associated with an image selection code e.g. preceded by 00 that indicates the image may not be modified. Those bits of information representing image data that is modifiable by the viewer is associated with an image selection code indicating that the image may be modified e.g. preceded by a 01 . When the viewer selects an image with the pointing device that is identified as being modifiable the software retrieves the selectable attributes e.g. colors that are stored from the broadcast transmission that are associated with that image selection code. Different images or products e.g. cars may have the same or different set of available selectable attributes. After selection of the desired attributes e.g. color of blue a portion of the video may be replayed which provides the selected image with selected attribute s . In this embodiment this is accomplished by replacing the data associated with the previously selected image selection code with data of the selected attribute. The method of modifying the attributes is the designer s choice and is based on the capabilities of the viewing station the format of the broadcast transmission s the number and types of available attributes and many other factors that are recognizable to one skilled in the art. In general however the image to be modified must be discernible or selectable from other images so that data of the selected attribute can replace it. This can be accomplished through the use of associated data codes as described using dedicated portions of memory for selected images or using a discernible format for the data representing modifiable images.

In still another application of the present embodiment a seminar is transmitted to multiple viewers who have purchased the reception of the broadcast. The audio and video transmissions are transmitted with a text version of the audio which may be displayed to the viewer at the viewer s request. The text portion is indexed to the video and audio and provides a number of benefits to the viewer. First the text version is available for reading either from a display or in printed form immediately or may be stored e.g. on a CD or on a DVD with the audio and video for use at a later time. The viewer can later search the text version of the audio for a particular word or words spoken by the seminar instructor. Once the word or words are found the viewer can begin to view the video and or audio and or text portions of the seminar where the desired word or words were found. The search capabilities of the present embodiment include extensive relative word searching. For example the searcher who received a stock seminar could search for the word stock within fifteen words of the word purchase and where the word sell does not appear within twenty five words of either stock or purchase. As is well known in the art conventional word search engines have this and other capabilities and it is the designer s choice based on the application of the invention and the cost benefit trade off what search capabilities are incorporated.

In addition the present embodiment may also receive the broadcast of seminar in which no text version is transmitted and the software utilizes voice recognition as is well known in the art to convert the audio to text. The software then finds the appropriate word s and portion of the seminar transmission and or stores the text for later use.

Once the desired combination of words are found the viewer begins viewing the video and audio and or text at a location in the broadcast that is a predetermined time e.g. 3 seconds before the place in the broadcast where the word or combination of words are found.

The broadcaster may also transmit indexed seminar topic headings embedded in the audio video or text transmission or in a separate transmission. For example topic headings for a stock seminar might be When to Sell When to Buy When to Hold. When transmitted by the broadcaster the viewer may select from a list of topic headings and view the video and or audio and or text the broadcast from the beginning of the topic within which the combination of words are found. In addition the viewer may also search topic headings or may browse a list of topic headings to select and view.

Viewers might initially have restricted or partially restricted e.g. no text transmitted access to the seminar as an introduction to the seminar in hopes of selling the seminar to the viewer. In addition to the above described transmissions the broadcaster may also transmit other information about the seminar. For example the broadcaster may transmit the days and times the seminar is broadcast the number of broadcasts the cost of the seminar information about books or other related products whether the broadcast includes a text portion the methods available for purchasing the seminar the duration of the remaining portion of the free broadcast etc. The viewer may then purchase the seminar while receiving the introduction portion of the broadcast.

Viewers who access a restricted broadcast do so by logging in with the entry and transmission of a conventional password and username. Either or both of the username and password may be stored in the viewer s computer memory e.g. in a cookie so that once the viewer is registered with the broadcaster the software on the viewer s viewing station transmits the username and password and the viewer need not enter the information.

Once logged in the viewer may select the seminar of interest and begin receiving and viewing the broadcast s . The broadcast transmission may include multiple transmissions. For example one transmission includes the instructors face and voice and another transmission includes a transmission of an overhead on which the instructor makes notations and drawings.

When the viewer logs in to the broadcast station the viewer s identity e.g. the viewer s username name or group of the viewer becomes known by the broadcast station. The registration logging in of viewers has benefits to the broadcaster in this application as well. For example the seminar instructor can determine which students are in attendance. This is valuable as some educational institutions have minimum attendance requirements that are imposed on the institution by outside accrediting organizations. The broadcast station is also designed to receive and transmit video from viewer video cams so that instructors through the use of software on the broadcast station may periodically select to receive the transmission of student video cams to ensure that the students are truly attending the seminar as opposed to logging in and leaving their computer . Transmitting and receiving audio and video to multiple viewers over the Internet is well known in the art and the details of the design are left to the designer and therefore not repeated here. In addition U.S. Pat. No. 6 011 782 to DeSimone et al. which provides an example of implementing video conferencing over the Internet is hereby incorporated by reference.

During the seminar the instructor may pose questions to the viewing class which are transmitted as audio or HTML to the students viewing stations. The viewers who believe they know the answer to the question respond by providing the appropriate viewer input clicking an answer button on the GUI . The instructor then selects which viewer from whom to receive an answer or alternatively by default the software may select to receive the answer from the first student viewer who responds. The viewer s answer may be transmitted as text audio and or video to the instructor only or to the instructor and other viewers automatically or some combination thereof at the instructor s discretion . If transmitted to the other viewers the transmitted answer is received by the broadcaster and retransmitted to the other viewers. Alternately if the IP address of other viewers is known to the answering viewer the answer may be transmitted directly to other viewers by the answering viewer s viewing station. By providing the answer to the instructor only first the instructor may screen out bad or offensive answers. In the preferred configuration of this embodiment the video and audio is transmitted to the instructor s broadcast station and if the instructor does not stop the broadcast software within three seconds of receiving the answer the software then automatically transmits the answer to all the students.

The instructor may also request that all the students respond to the question which could most easily be accomplished via a multiple choice question format transmitted as HTML. The instructor may present the question verbally audio textually text or graphically to the students. The question may be transmitted as a separate broadcast or within the same broadcast as an information transmission as described above. The instructor s broadcast station then receives and tallies the viewer responses transmitted from the students viewing stations to provide the instructor with the number and percentage of correct and incorrect answers. The instructor may use this question and answer format to get a general feel for how well the students are grasping the content of the instruction or may use it to test and grade each of the students understanding of the subject matter. In the latter instance the test is transmitted by itself and allows the viewer a predetermined time period to respond to the questions or alternately to each question before presenting the next question . And to reduce the likelihood of collaboration among students all students could be scheduled to receive and take the test at the same time but with the questions in a different order.

Another application of the present embodiment is virtual gambling. Many people enjoy gambling even though most people do no live near gambling establishments and people often travel great distances to participate in gambling. One alternative is online gaming which is performed through software. Specifically a computer program generates the order of cards in a virtual deck of cards that the user plays. The computer generation of the virtual deck of cards or other gaming device such as dice or roulette is not by many people considered to be trustworthy and fair. In other words many people do not trust virtual gaming in which a computer controls the device of chance dice cards or roulette .

As an alternative to this type of virtual gambling the present embodiment allows the viewer to gamble with a real device of chance. In this application a viewer wishes to play blackjack. The viewer logs into the gaming website and establishes credit with the broadcaster. The viewer is then assigned to a virtual chair at a blackjack table that has a minimum bet requirement and maximum allowable bet that are suitable to the viewer. Once assigned to the virtual chair the viewer s viewing station receives transmissions from the broadcast station that allows the viewer to see all the blackjack hands being played at the table. The transmission from a video camera is of a live person acting as a dealer and who deals cards to all the players virtual or live who are playing at that table. The device of chance deck s of cards are thus real cards. In essence the transmission allows the viewer to see all the cards at the table as if the viewer were actually sitting at the table. The viewer expresses his or her decisions relating to the playing of the viewer s hand e.g. stay hit double down split or surrender by clicking on the appropriate hyperlink or button on the viewing station display which was transmitted from the broadcast station to the viewing station as HTML. The viewer s desire relating to play of the hand is then transmitted to the broadcast station and displayed to the dealer who responds accordingly e.g. giving the viewer another card etc. . Likewise the viewer makes wagers by providing input to the viewing station which is transmitted to the broadcast station and to the dealer. Other players may or optionally may not know the amount being wagered by another virtual player. The broadcast station web server is ideally located remotely from the dealer with the dealer operating a local viewing station.

To provide the true feeling of being present the dealer s voice is also transmitted to all viewers as well as the voice of other virtual players. Alternately for this application instead of using the display and pointing device to transmit the viewer s decisions regarding wagering and playing of the hands the viewer may simply speak into the microphone of the viewing station. The speech is transmitted to the broadcast station and received by the dealer who acts accordingly. Transmitting the audio to all players allows friends from different geographical locations to play and interact together as if they were in a real gambling establishment.

This application is especially applicable to games of chance such as craps and roulette. Typically the number of people that may engage in a craps or roulette game is limited by the number of people who can physically gain access to the table to place a bet. In a virtual game as described above however an unlimited number of people may receive a broadcast from a single roulette or craps table i.e. the number is only limited to the number of broadcasts that can be transmitted by the broadcast station .

In another application of the present embodiment a video conference is available for viewers who have the correct username and or password. This embodiment can be configured through hardware and software to have one of any number of configurations depending on the viewer s desire and the application as is well known to those skilled in the art.

After logging into the video conference viewers can receive the audio and or video and if desired the text version of the audio from a single broadcaster or a plurality of broadcasters who are engaged in a conference. In one viewer configuration the viewer simultaneously and continuously receives the video broadcast of all participants or a select subset of the participants. In another viewer configuration the viewer views the broadcasts of each individual participant sequentially as the participants alternatively provide input to the discussion. Alternately the viewer may elect to receive only the video transmissions of selected participants while receiving all or select audio transmissions. Furthermore just as the viewer can elect to receive and view transmissions of particular participants the viewer can also select which participants are to receive the viewer s transmission. The transmission and reception configurations need not be the same i.e. the viewer may transmit to a different set of participants than from whom the viewer is receiving and are selectable by the viewer whose desires will be driven largely by the application content of the broadcast and desires of the viewers. This application is especially useful for online negotiations chat rooms business meetings depositions etc.

To allow for selectable reception and transmission of participants the broadcast station stores a unique identifier corresponding to each participant along with the selections relating to reception and transmission of that participant in memory. An incoming video and audio from a participant viewer is then broadcast by the broadcast station to the addresses of the viewing stations requesting reception of the broadcast and who are also permitted as determined by the broadcasting participant to receive the broadcast.

In another application of the present embodiment a virtual meeting room is provided for viewers to meet and discuss topics of common interest. For example in one embodiment of this application the viewer s display depicts a virtual space a two dimensional representation of a two or preferably three dimensional space which contains representations of other viewers who congregate in different groups in the virtual space which may represent a room or a plurality of connected rooms. The representations of viewers in the preferred embodiment is a live video of the viewer being transmitted from the viewer s video cam. Alternately the representation may be a caricature that is either created or selected by the viewer it represents. The representation may also be scanned in still photograph of the viewer s face or full body. Each group discussion is represented by a group icon that is selected by the originator or moderator of the group.

Each individual in the virtual space is depicted to other virtual participants in the location within the virtual space to which the individual has moved their individual representation. Individuals move their own representation to a new location in the virtual space by clicking and dragging their representation to a new location or by clicking on a group icon within the virtual space which transmits a request for a move of their representation to the broadcast station. Through either method data representing the request for a move of the individual s representation s to the new location is transmitted to the broadcast station which is subsequently transmitted to other participants in the virtual space whose displays are then updated to depict the new location of the individual s representation within the virtual space.

Viewers in the virtual room may congregate in groups within the room to discuss subtopics of interest. For example the room might be an investment discussion room. One group might be discussing stock investing and another commodity investing. Also the room might not have a specific discussion topic and might resemble a free for all discussion as in many chat rooms.

Once in the room the viewer may gather information about individuals in each group in the virtual room before entering the discussion. By moving the pointing device over a group icon the viewer can see group information about such as the title of the group number of participants names or screen names duration of discussion etc. Similarly by moving the pointing device over the representation of an individual characteristics of the represented individual are displayed to the viewer. This participant information includes whatever the represented individual has elected to supply and might include the persons name age sex marital status city of residence profession likes and dislikes etc. By clicking on a group icon the viewer s representation is moved adjacent the group icon and the viewer enters the group discussion and begins to receive the audio which is the audio sent by all the participants of that group. To keep the discussions manageable the groups may be moderated by a moderator and or limited to a set number of transmitting participants such as ten. Once the maximum number of transmitting participants is met no new broadcasting viewers may enter. In other words new viewers may join to listen but may not transmit any of their own audio or video to the group participants.

In addition to receiving the audio viewers may elect to display the video of the viewer that is supplying the audio. The server software of the broadcast station transmitting the virtual room transmits the video in addition to the audio that is presently being transmitted by participants. People often begin speaking at the same time or in their enthusiasm begin talking before the previous speaker is finished speaking. This results in two or more audio broadcasts. When it is desirable to prevent multiple broadcasts the broadcast station software monitors the audio transmissions and does not transmit a video and audio from a new source until a one second time delay has elapsed since the most recent audio transmission has terminated. The video and audio of a different participant is then transmitted as soon thereafter as the different viewer participant begins transmitting. In addition the moderator may act as a director and decide which audio and video is transmitted to the entire group.

In the preferred embodiment a video transmitting the face of each group participant is continually transmitted to all the other group participants and the viewer may elect to not view particular persons by either not selecting or de selecting those persons from a selection list which results in a transmission to the broadcast station or by closing that person s display window once opened.

The virtual room embodiment has many applications which include business conferences dating singles services auctions silent or otherwise charity functions and any social gathering in which many persons would like to attend a function without the difficulties of traveling. For example in a silent auction application the discussion groups have topics that correspond to particular items e.g. a grandfather clock or groups of items e.g. clocks that are being auctioned. The items for auction are represented by an icon which in this example includes a representative photograph title and highest bid. A viewer learns more about the item by moving the pointing device over the icon. The viewer station will then display additional photographs from different perspectives of the item a textual or alternately audio description and the history of bids. The viewer may then make a bid by clicking an appropriate hyperlink transmitted by the broadcast station.

The viewer may also select a number of auction items from a list to monitor. The items that are monitored by the viewer are displayed in a monitoring window which lists the title of the item a photo the highest bid and the highest bidders bid number or other information identifying the highest bidder . This allows the viewer to quickly monitor items of interest to determine if the viewer has been out bid so that the viewer may increase his or her bid.

The infrastructure of the present invention consists of both hardware and software. The details of the infrastructure are left to the designer and will vary depending on the costs and benefits compatibility with existing technology hardware and software the application the particular embodiment and various other factors. Thus a multitude of variations are described and components of any particular embodiment can be readily used with the components of other embodiments as will be readily ascertainable by one skilled in the art. In addition the components providing the same or similar functionality of another disclosed component may be substituted. In fact as technology progresses one skilled in the art would expect that the components disclosed both hardware and software to be replaced with faster smaller cheaper and or better components having enhanced functions and more adaptable to particular applications e.g. portability . Likewise features described in one embodiment might be used with features described in another embodiment and still be within the scope of the invention.

