---

title: Pyrimido-pyrrolo-quinoxalinedione inhibitors of cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein and uses therefor
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08609661&OS=08609661&RS=08609661
owner: The Regents of the University of California
number: 08609661
owner_city: Oakland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100810
---
This application is a U.S. national stage application filed under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Patent Application PCT US2010 045052 accorded an international filing date of Aug. 10 2010 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 232 741 filed Aug. 10 2009 all of which applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. P30 DK72517 R01 HL73856 R37 DK35124 and DK086125 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Therapeutics are needed for treating diseases and disorders related to aberrant cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR mediated ion transport such as polycystic kidney disease increased intestinal fluid secretion and secretory diarrhea. Small molecule compounds are described herein that are potent inhibitors of CFTR activity and that may be used for treating such diseases and disorders.

The cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein CFTR is a cAMP activated chloride Cl channel expressed in epithelial cells in mammalian airways intestine pancreas and testis see e.g. Sheppard et al. 79 S23 45 1999 Gadsby et al. 40 477 83 2006 . Hormones such as a adrenergic agonist or a toxin such as cholera toxin lead to an increase in cAMP activation of cAMP dependent protein kinase and phosphorylation of the CFTR Cl channel which causes the channel to open. An increase in cell Ca can also activate different apical membrane channels. Phosphorylation by protein kinase C can either open or shut Cl channels in the apical membrane. CFTR is predominantly located in epithelia where it provides a pathway for the movement of Cl ions across the apical membrane and a key point at which to regulate the rate of transepithelial salt and water transport.

CFTR chloride channel function is associated with a wide spectrum of disease including cystic fibrosis CF and with some forms of male infertility polycystic kidney disease and secretory diarrhea. Cystic fibrosis is a hereditary lethal disease caused by mutations in CFTR see e.g. Quinton 79 S3 S22 1999 Boucher 23 146 58 2004 . Observations in human patients with CF and mouse models of CF indicate the functional importance of CFTR in intestinal and pancreatic fluid transport as well as in male fertility Grubb et al. 79 S193 S214 1999 Wong P. Y. 4 107 110 1997 . CFTR is also expressed in enterocytes in the intestine and in cyst epithelium in polycystic kidney disease see e.g. O Sullivan et al. 32 976 983 1998 Sullivan et al. 78 1165 91 1998 Strong et al. 93 347 54 1994 Mall et al. 126 32 41 2004 Hanaoka et al. 270 C389 C399 1996 Kunzelmann et al. 82 245 289 2002 Davidow et al. 50 208 18 1996 Li et al. 66 1926 38 2004 Al Awqati 110 1599 1601 2002 Thiagarajah et al. 3 594 99 2003 .

Polycystic kidney disease PKD is characterized by massive enlargement of fluid filled cysts of renal tubular origin that compromise normal renal parenchyma and cause renal failure Arnaout 52 93 123 2001 Gabow 329 332 342 1993 Harris et al. 81 75 85 2004 Wilson 350 151 164 2004 Sweeney et al. 326 671 685 2006 Chapman 18 1399 1407 2007 . Human autosomal dominant PKD ADPKD is caused by mutations in one of two genes PKD1 and PKD2 encoding the interacting proteins polycystin 1 and polycystin 2 respectively Wilson supra Qian et al. 87 979 987 1996 Wu et al. 93 177 188 1998 Watnick et al. Torres et al. 10 363 364 2004 25 143 144 2000 . Cyst growth in PKD involves fluid secretion into the cyst lumen coupled with epithelial cell hyperplasia.

Several CFTR inhibitors have been discovered although many exhibit weak potency and lack CFTR specificity. The oral hypoglycemic agent glibenclamide inhibits CFTR Cl conductance from the intracellular side by an open channel blocking mechanism Sheppard et al. 503 333 346 1997 Zhou et al. 120 647 62 2002 at high micromolar concentrations where it affects other Cl and cation channels Edwards Weston 1993 Rabe et al. 110 1280 81 1995 Schultz et al. 79 S109 S144 1999 . Other non selective anion transport inhibitors including diphenylamine 2 carboxylate DPC 5 nitro 2 3 phenylpropyl amino benzoate NPPB and flufenamic acid also inhibit CFTR by occluding the pore at an intracellular site Dawson et al. 79 S47 S75 1999 McCarty 203 1947 62 2000 .

High affinity CFTR inhibitors also have clinical application in the therapy of secretory diarrheas. Cell culture and animal models indicated that intestinal chloride secretion in enterotoxin mediated secretory diarrheas occurs mainly through CFTR see e.g. Clarke et al. 257 1125 28 1992 Gabriel et al. 266 107 109 1994 Kunzelmann and Mall 82 245 89 2002 Field M. 111 931 43 2003 and Thiagarajah et al. 126 511 519 2003 .

Diarrheal disease in children is a global health concern Approximately four billion cases among children occur annually resulting in at least two million deaths. Travelers diarrhea affects approximately 6 million people per year. Antibiotics are routinely used to treat diarrhea however the antibiotics are ineffective for treating many pathogens and the use of these drugs contributes to development of antibiotic resistance in other pathogens. Oral replacement of fluid loss is also routinely used to treat diarrhea but is primarily palliative. Therapy directed at reducing intestinal fluid secretion anti secretory therapy has the potential to overcome limitations of existing therapies.

A need exists for CFTR inhibitors particularly those that are safe non absorbable highly potent inexpensive and chemically stable.

Briefly provided herein are pyrimido pyrrolo quinoxalinedione PPQ compounds and compositions comprising such compounds that inhibit cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR mediated ion transport and that are useful for treating diseases and disorders associated with aberrantly increased CFTR chloride channel activity. The PPQ compounds which are highly potent CFTR inhibitors and compositions comprising these compounds described herein are useful for treating diseases and disorders treatable by inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport. Methods are provided for inhibiting enlargement of kidney cysts or preventing or inhibiting the formation of cysts and thereby treating polycystic kidney disease. Methods of treating diseases and disorders associated with aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion such as secretory diarrhea and Traveler s diarrhea are also provided.

Thus provided herein is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound having the following structure I 

Further provided herein is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound having the following substructure IA 

Also provided herein is a pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound having the following substructure IB 

Further provided herein is a method for inhibiting cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR mediated ion transport said method comprising contacting a a cell that comprises CFTR and b the composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound of any one of structure I substructures IA and IB and specific structures described above and herein under conditions and for a time sufficient that permit the CFTR and the compound to interact thereby inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport.

Further provided herein is a method for inhibiting cyst formation or inhibiting cyst enlargement said method comprising contacting a a cell that comprises CFTR and b the composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound of any one of structure I substructures IA and IB and specific structures described above and herein under conditions and for a time sufficient that permit CFTR and the compound to interact wherein the compound inhibits CFTR mediated ion transport.

Further provided herein is a method for treating polycystic kidney disease comprising administering to a subject a pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound of any one of structure I substructures IA and IB and specific structures described above and herein. In such method the polycystic kidney disease is autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease or is autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease.

Further provided herein is a method for treating a disease condition or disorder that is treatable by inhibiting cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR mediated ion transport said method comprising administering to a subject the pharmaceutical compositions described herein comprising a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and a compound of any of structure I substructures IA and IB and specific structures described above and herein thereby inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport. In such a method the disease condition or disorder can be selected from polycystic kidney disease aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion and secretory diarrhea. More specifically the secretory diarrhea is a caused by an enteric pathogen b induced by an enterotoxin or c a sequelae of ulcerative colitis irritable bowel syndrome IBS AIDS chemotherapy or an enteropathogenic infection.

Further provided herein is use of the pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound of any one of structure I substructures IA and IB and specific structures described above and herein for treating a disease condition or disorder that is selected from polycystic kidney disease aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion and secretory diarrhea. Also provided herein is a use of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound of any one of structure I substructures IA and IB and specific structures described above and herein for the manufacture of a medicament for treating a disease condition or disorder that is selected from polycystic kidney disease aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion and secretory diarrhea. In still another embodiment a pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient and a compound of any one of structure I substructures IA and IB and specific structures described above and herein is provided for use in treating a disease condition or disorder that is selected from polycystic kidney disease aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion and secretory diarrhea.

As used herein and in the appended claims the singular forms a and and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an agent includes a plurality of such agents and reference to a cell or the cell includes reference to one or more cells and equivalents thereof e.g. plurality of cells known to those skilled in the art and so forth. Similarly reference to a compound or a composition includes a plurality of such compounds or compositions and refers to one or more compounds or compositions respectively unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term about when referring to a number or a numerical range means that the number or numerical range referred to is an approximation within experimental variability or within statistical experimental error and thus the number or numerical range may vary between 1 and 15 of the stated number or numerical range. The term comprising and related terms such as comprise or comprises or having or including is not intended to exclude that in other certain embodiments for example an embodiment of any composition of matter composition method or process or the like described herein may consist of or consist essentially of the described features.

Provided herein are pyrimido pyrrolo quinoxalinedione PPQ compounds that inhibit activity of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR chloride channel. The PPQ compounds described herein are capable of inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport e.g. CFTR mediated Cl transport i.e. inhibiting CFTR conductance . The compounds and compositions comprising the PPQ compounds are therefore useful for administering to a subject who has or who is at risk of developing a disease disorder or condition that is treatable i.e. administration of the compounds and compositions will provide a therapeutic or prophylactic benefit by inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport.

The PPQ compounds described herein are highly potent CFTR inhibitors that are uncharged and thereby membrane potential insensitive. CFTR inhibitors are predicted to slow renal cyst expansion in polycystic kidney disease PKD where fluid accumulation in renal cysts is CFTR dependent see e.g. Hanaoka et al. 2000 11 1179 1187 Brill et al. 1996 93 10206 10211 Torres et al. 2006 2 40 55 O Sullivan et al. 1998 32 976 983 Xu et al. 2006 19 529 534 Cotton et al. 1998 32 1081 1083 Davidow et al. 1996 50 208 218 Li et al. 2004 66 1926 1938 and to reduce intestinal fluid loss in secretory diarrheas see e.g. Thiagarajah et al. 2004 126 511 519 Sonawane et al. 2007 132 1234 1244 Kunzelmann et al. 2002 82 245 289 .

Previously identified CFTR inhibitors include glibenclamide diphenylamine 2 carboxylate DPC and 5 nitro 2 3 phenylpropyl amino benzoate NPPB see however these inhibitors are non selective in their action and have low potency. One study reported strong CFTR inhibition by aminoazaheterocyclic methylglyoxal adducts see e.g. Routaboul et al. 2007 322 1023 1035 though CFTR inhibition was not subsequently confirmed see e.g. Sonawane et al. 2008 325 529 535 . Two classes of improved CFTR inhibitors have been previously identified by high throughput screening see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 235 573 7 414 037 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0064666 Namkung et al. 2009 284 15916 926 Sonawane et al. 2006 20 130 132 Sonawane et al. 2008 16 8187 95 Verkman et al. 2009 8 153 171 . The thiazolidinone CFTR 172 compound see acts from the cytoplasmic side of the plasma membrane to block CFTR chloride conductance with IC 0.3 3 M depending on cell type and membrane potential see e.g. Ma et al. 2002 110 1651 1658 . Patch clamp analysis indicated a voltage independent channel block mechanism in which CFTR 172 stabilizes the channel closed state see e.g. Taddei et al. 2004 558 52 56 CFTR mutagenesis suggested CFTR 172 interaction at arginine 347 located near the cytoplasmic entrance of the CFTR pore see e.g. Caci et al. 2008 413 135 142 . CFTR 172 has low toxicity undergoes renal excretion with minimal metabolism and accumulates in the intestine by enterohepatic recirculation Sonawane et al. 2005 94 134 143 . A second compound class the glycine hydrazides e.g. GlyH 101 see inhibit CFTR with IC 5 M see e.g. Muanprasat et al. 2004 124 125 137 U.S. Pat. No. 7 414 037 . Patch clamp analysis showed inward rectifying chloride current following GlyH 101 application with rapid channel flicking indicating an external pore occlusion mechanism.

The PPQ compounds described herein provide certain advantages compared to thiazolidinone compounds and glycine hydrazide compounds. Inhibition of CFTR activity by the PPQ compounds described herein is voltage independent and thus advantageous to maintain CFTR inhibition potency in interior membrane negative potential cells. Accordingly the PPQ CFTR inhibitors may not be subject to membrane potential dependent cellular partitioning or a decrease in potency such as indicated by an increase in IC . The most potent PPQ compounds inhibited CFTR chloride conductance with IC 90 nM. Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory the PPQ compounds described herein stabilize the CFTR channel closed state which in combination with the neutral charge of the compounds and relatively slow time course of inhibition suggests that the compounds act at a site on the cytoplasmic facing surface of CFTR distinct from its pore. An exemplary PPQ compound prevented cyst expansion and reduced the size of pre formed cysts in a neonatal kidney organ culture model of polycystic kidney disease. The PPQ compounds are therefore useful for administering to patients who have polycystic kidney disease.

The PPQ compounds described herein share a fused tetracyclic core structure more specifically a pyrimido 4 5 3 4 pyrrolo 1 2 a quinoxaline ring system. The numbering system of the fused ring atoms in the PPQ compounds of structure I is shown below 

Thus in one embodiment provided herein is a compound of the following structure I and a pharmaceutical composition comprising a physiologically acceptable excipient i.e. pharmaceutically acceptable or suitable excipient and the compound of structure I 

In certain embodiments Z is an aryl and is an optionally substituted phenyl. In a more specific embodiment phenyl is substituted with at least one of alkyl halo alkoxy nitro or hydroxyl. In other certain embodiments Z is a heteroaryl selected from optionally substituted furanyl optionally substituted thienyl and optionally substituted 1 3 benzodioxolyl. In a more particular embodiment Z is furanyl optionally substituted with alkyl. In another particular embodiment Z is thienyl optionally substituted with alkyl. In another particular embodiment Z is 1 3 benzodioxol 5 yl.

In a more specific embodiment Z is a heteroaryl selected from optionally substituted furanyl and optionally substituted thienyl and the compound of structure I can be represented by the following subgenus structure IA 

In certain embodiments in which X is O i.e. Z is furanyl R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl halo or alkoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or alkyl and Ris hydrogen or alkyl. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is alkyl. In more particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In certain embodiments in which X is O i.e. Z is furanyl R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen Calkyl halo or Calkoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or Calkyl and Ris hydrogen or Calkyl. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is Calkyl. In more particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In more specific embodiments in which X is O i.e. Z is furanyl R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen methyl chloro fluoro or methoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or methyl and Ris hydrogen or methyl. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In other certain embodiments in which X is S i.e. Z is thienyl R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl halo or alkoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or alkyl and Ris hydrogen or alkyl. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is alkyl. In more particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In certain embodiments in which X is S i.e. Z is thienyl R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen Calkyl halo or Calkoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or Calkyl and Ris hydrogen or Calkyl. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is Calkyl. In more particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In more specific embodiments in which X is S i.e. Z is thienyl R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen methyl chloro fluoro or methoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or methyl and Ris hydrogen or methyl. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In another specific embodiment Z is an optionally substituted phenyl and the compound of structure I can be represented by the following subgenus structure IB 

In certain embodiments R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl halo or alkoxy Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or alkyl and R R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl alkenyl halo alkoxy nitro or hydroxy. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is alkyl. In more particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In certain embodiments R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen Calkyl halo or Calkoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or Calkyl and R R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen Calkyl halo Calkoxy nitro or hydroxy. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is Calkyl. In more particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In more specific embodiments R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen methyl chloro fluoro or methoxy and Rand Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen or methyl and R R R and Rare each the same or different and independently hydrogen methyl chloro fluoro methoxy nitro or hydroxy. In particular embodiments Rand Rare the same and each is hydrogen or each is methyl.

In a further embodiment a compound of structure I is provided wherein Z is an optionally substituted 1 3 benzodioxolyl each Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl halo or alkoxy and each Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen or alkyl.

In other certain embodiments a compound of structure I is provided in which Z is an optionally substituted 1 3 benzodioxolyl each Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen Calkyl halo or Calkoxy and each Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen or Calkyl. In particular embodiments m is 1 and Ris Calkyl.

In more specific embodiments a compound of structure I is provided in which Z is an optionally substituted 1 3 benzodioxolyl each Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen methyl chloro fluoro or methoxy and each Ris the same or different and independently hydrogen or methyl. In particular embodiments m is 1 n is 0 and Ris methyl. In other embodiments m is 0 and n is 0.

The above described PPQ compounds and compositions comprising the compounds are capable of inhibiting i.e. slowing retarding decreasing reducing CFTR mediated ion transport i.e. inhibiting in a statistically significant clinically significant and or biologically significant manner for example inhibiting CFTR mediated chloride ion i.e. Cl transport. In other embodiments provided herein the PPQ compounds and compositions comprising the PPQ compounds described above and herein may be used in methods for treating a disease condition or disorder that is treatable by inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport. Exemplary diseases conditions and disorders include but are not limited to polycystic kidney disease PKD including autosomal dominant PDK and autosomal recessive PKD aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion and secretory diarrhea. In particular embodiments the PPQ compounds and compositions comprising the PPQ compounds may be used in methods for inhibiting i.e. preventing delaying slowing cyst formation i.e. reducing the likelihood of occurrence of one or more cysts forming and or inhibiting cyst enlargement or expansion i.e. slowing reducing preventing retarding reversing decreasing cyst enlargement or expansion particularly inhibiting cyst formation or inhibiting cyst enlargement in one or both kidneys of a human or non human animal. Inhibiting cyst enlargement or expansion may thus reduce or decrease the volume of one or more fluid filled cysts. Each of these methods and uses is described in greater detail herein.

Certain chemical groups named herein are preceded by a shorthand notation indicating the total number of carbon atoms that are to be found in the indicated chemical group. For example Calkyl describes an alkyl group as defined below having a total of 1 to 6 carbon atoms. The total number of carbons in the shorthand notation does not include carbons that may exist in substituents of the group described. In addition to the foregoing as used herein unless specified to the contrary the following terms have the meaning indicated.

 Alkyl means a straight chain or branched noncyclic or cyclic unsaturated or saturated aliphatic hydrocarbon containing from 1 to 12 carbon atoms while the terms lower alkyl and Calkyl have the same meaning as alkyl but contain from 1 to 6 carbon atoms. Representative saturated straight chain alkyls include methyl ethyl n propyl n butyl n pentyl n hexyl and the like while saturated branched alkyls include isopropyl sec butyl isobutyl tert butyl isopentyl and the like. Representative saturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl CHcyclopropyl CHcyclobutyl CHcyclopentyl CHcyclohexyl and the like unsaturated cyclic alkyls include cyclopentenyl and cyclohexenyl and the like. Cyclic alkyls also referred to as homocyclic rings include di and poly homocyclic rings such as decalin and adamantyl. Unsaturated alkyls contain at least one double or triple bond between adjacent carbon atoms referred to as an alkenyl or alkynyl respectively . Representative straight chain and branched alkenyls include ethylenyl propylenyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl and the like representative straight chain and branched alkynyls include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl and the like. Unless otherwise specified it is understood that within the context of the current disclosure the term alkyl can be optionally substituted i.e. optionally substituted alkyl encompasses unsubstituted alkyl and substituted alkyl as defined herein.

As used herein the term substituted in the context of alkyl alkenyl aryl heteroaryl and alkoxy means that at least one hydrogen atom of the alky aryl and heteroaryl moiety is replaced with a substituent. In the instance of an oxo substituent O two hydrogen atoms are replaced. A substituent as used within the context of this disclosure includes oxo halogen hydroxy cyano nitro amino alkylamino dialkylamino alkyl alkoxy thioalkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl heteroalkyl aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocyclealkyl substituted heterocyclealkyl NRR NRC O OR NRC O NRR NRC O OR NRS O R OR C O R C O OR C O NRR OCHC O NRR OC O NRR SH SR SOR S O NRR S O R SRC O NRR OS O Rand S O OR wherein Rand Rare the same or different and independently hydrogen alkyl haloalkyl substituted alkyl alkoxy aryl substituted aryl arylalkyl substituted arylalkyl heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl heteroarylalkyl substituted heteroarylalkyl heterocycle substituted heterocycle heterocyclealkyl or substituted heterocyclealkyl.

Representative substituents include but are not limited to alkoxy i.e. alkyl O e.g. methoxy ethoxy propoxy butoxy pentoxy aryloxy e.g. phenoxy chlorophenoxy tolyloxy methoxyphenoxy benzyloxy alkyloxycarbonylphenoxy alkyloxycarbonyloxy acyloxyphenoxy acyloxy e.g. propionyloxy benzoyloxy acetoxy carbamoyloxy carboxy mercapto alkylthio acylthio arylthio e.g. phenylthio chlorophenylthio alkylphenylthio alkoxyphenylthio benzylthio alkyloxycarbonyl phenylthio amino e.g. amino mono and di Calkanylamino methylphenylamino methylbenzylamino Calkanylamido acylamino carbamamido ureido guanidino nitro and cyano . Moreover any substituent may have from 1 5 further substituents attached thereto.

 Alkenyl refers to a straight or branched hydrocarbon chain radical group consisting solely of carbon and hydrogen atoms containing at least one double bond and having from two to twelve carbon atoms. In certain embodiments an alkenyl may comprise two to eight carbon atoms. In other embodiments an alkenyl may comprise two to four carbon atoms. The alkenyl is connected to the rest of the molecule by a single bond for example ethenyl i.e. vinyl prop 1 enyl i.e. allyl but 1 enyl pent 1 enyl penta 1 4 dienyl and the like. Unless otherwise specified it is understood that within the context of the current disclosure the term alkenyl can be optionally substituted i.e. optionally substituted alkenyl encompasses unsubstituted alkyl and substituted alkenyl as defined herein.

 Aryl refers to aromatic monocyclic or multicyclic hydrocarbon ring system consisting only of hydrogen and carbon and containing from six to eighteen carbon atoms where the ring system may be partially or fully saturated. Aryl groups include but are not limited to groups such as fluorenyl phenyl and naphthyl. Unless otherwise specified it is understood that within the context of the current disclosure the term aryl can be optionally substituted i.e. optionally substituted aryl encompasses unsubstituted aryl and substituted aryl e.g. substituted phenyl as defined herein.

 Heteroaryl means an aromatic heterocycle ring of 5 to 10 members and having at least one heteroatom selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and containing at least 1 carbon atom including monocyclic bicyclic and tricyclic ring systems. A fused heteroaryl e.g. a bicyclic heteroaryl contains at least one aromatic ring which may be a benzo ring e.g. benzofuranyl 1 3 benzodioxolyl or indolyl . Representative heteroaryls are furanyl benzofuranyl thienyl benzothienyl 1 3 benzodioxolyl pyrrolyl indolyl isoindolyl azaindolyl pyridyl quinolinyl isoquinolinyl oxazolyl isooxazolyl benzoxazolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl benzimidazolyl thiazolyl benzothiazolyl isothiazolyl pyridazinyl pyrimidinyl pyrazinyl triazinyl cinnolinyl phthalazinyl and quinazolinyl. Unless otherwise specified it is understood that within the context of the current disclosure the term heteroaryl can be optionally substituted i.e. optionally substituted heteroaryl encompasses unsubstituted heteroaryl and substituted heteroaryl e.g. substituted furanyl as defined herein.

 Heterocycle also referred to herein as a heterocyclic ring means a 4 to 7 membered monocyclic or 7 to 10 membered bicyclic heterocyclic ring which is either saturated unsaturated or aromatic and which contains from 1 to 4 heteroatoms independently selected from nitrogen oxygen and sulfur and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur heteroatoms may be optionally oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom may be optionally quaternized including bicyclic rings in which any of the above heterocycles are fused to a benzene ring. The heterocycle may be attached via any heteroatom or carbon atom. Heterocycles include heteroaryls as defined above. Thus in addition to the heteroaryls listed above heterocycles also include morpholinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl piperidinyl hydantoinyl valerolactamyl oxiranyl oxetanyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydroprimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and the like.

 Alkoxy refers to the radical O alkyl such as methoxy ethoxy and the like. Calkoxy means that the alkyl moiety is Calkyl.

With regard to stereoisomers the compounds of structure I as well as any sub structure herein e.g. IA and IB may have one or more chiral centers for example at the 6 position of the pyrimido 4 5 3 4 pyrrolo 1 2 a quinoxaline ring system . Thus the compounds may occur in any isomeric form including racemates racemic mixtures and as individual enantiomers or diastereomers. Furthermore some of the crystalline forms of any compound described herein may exist as polymorphs which are also included and contemplated by the present disclosure. In addition some of the compounds may form solvates with water or other organic solvents. Such solvates are similarly included within the scope of compounds and compositions described herein.

In general the compounds used in the reactions described herein may be made according to organic synthesis techniques known to those skilled in this art starting from commercially available chemicals and or from compounds described in the chemical literature. Commercially available chemicals may be obtained from standard commercial sources including Acros Organics Pittsburgh Pa. Aldrich Chemical Milwaukee Wis. including Sigma Chemical and Fluka Apin Chemicals Ltd. Milton Park UK Avocado Research Lancashire U.K. BDH Inc. Toronto Canada Bionet Cornwall U.K. Chemservice Inc. West Chester Pa. Crescent Chemical Co. Hauppauge N.Y. Eastman Organic Chemicals Eastman Kodak Company Rochester N.Y. Fisher Scientific Co. Pittsburgh Pa. Fisons Chemicals Leicestershire UK Frontier Scientific Logan Utah ICN Biomedicals Inc. Costa Mesa Calif. Key Organics Cornwall U.K. Lancaster Synthesis Windham N.H. Maybridge Chemical Co. Ltd. Cornwall U.K. Parish Chemical Co. Orem Utah Pfaltz Bauer Inc. Waterbury Conn. Polyorganix Houston Tex. Pierce Chemical Co. Rockford Ill. Riedel de Haen AG Hanover Germany Spectrum Quality Product Inc. New Brunswick N.J. TCI America Portland Oreg. Trans World Chemicals Inc. Rockville Md. and Wako Chemicals USA Inc. Richmond Va. .

Methods known to one of ordinary skill in the art may be identified through various reference books and databases. Suitable reference books and treatise that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds of the present disclosure or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Synthetic Organic Chemistry John Wiley Sons Inc. New York S. R. Sandler et al. Organic Functional Group Preparations 2nd Ed. Academic Press New York 1983 H. O. House Modern Synthetic Reactions 2nd Ed. W. A. Benjamin Inc. Menlo Park Calif. 1972 T. L. Gilchrist Heterocyclic Chemistry 2nd Ed. John Wiley Sons New York 1992 J. March Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Ed. Wiley Interscience New York 1992. Additional suitable reference books and treatise that detail the synthesis of reactants useful in the preparation of compounds of the present disclosure or provide references to articles that describe the preparation include for example Fuhrhop J. and Penzlin G. Organic Synthesis Concepts Methods Starting Materials Second Revised and Enlarged Edition 1994 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29074 5 Hoffman R. V. Organic Chemistry An Intermediate Text 1996 Oxford University Press ISBN 0 19 509618 5 Larock R. C. Comprehensive Organic Transformations A Guide to Functional Group Preparations 2nd Edition 1999 Wiley VCH ISBN 0 471 19031 4 March J. Advanced Organic Chemistry Reactions Mechanisms and Structure 4th Edition 1992 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 60180 2 Otera J. editor Modern Carbonyl Chemistry 2000 Wiley VCH ISBN 3 527 29871 1 Patai S. Patai s 1992 Guide to the Chemistry of Functional Groups 1992 Interscience ISBN 0 471 93022 9 Quin L. D. et al. A Guide to Organophosphorus Chemistry 2000 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 31824 8 Solomons T. W. G. Organic Chemistry 7th Edition 2000 John Wiley Sons ISBN 0 471 19095 0 Stowell J. C. Intermediate Organic Chemistry 2nd Edition 1993 Wiley Interscience ISBN 0 471 57456 2 Industrial Organic Chemicals Starting Materials and Intermediates An Ullmann s Encyclopedia 1999 John Wiley Sons ISBN 3 527 29645 X in 8 volumes Organic Reactions 1942 2000 John Wiley Sons in over 55 volumes and Chemistry of Functional Groups John Wiley Sons in 73 volumes.

Specific and analogous reactants may also be identified through the indices of known chemicals prepared by the Chemical Abstract Service of the American Chemical Society which are available in most public and university libraries as well as through on line databases the American Chemical Society Washington D.C. may be contacted for more details . Chemicals that are known but not commercially available in catalogs may be prepared by custom chemical synthesis houses where many of the standard chemical supply houses e.g. those listed above provide custom synthesis services. A reference for the preparation and selection of pharmaceutical salts of the present disclosure is P. H. Stahl C. G. Wermuth Handbook of Pharmaceutical Salts Verlag Helvetica Chimica Acta Zurich 2002.

The following Reaction Schemes illustrate methods to make compounds of this disclosure i.e. compounds of structures I IA and IB 

Generally speaking commercially available 6 methyluracil 1 can be first methylated to provide 1 3 6 trimethyluracil 2 . Suitable methylating agents include dimethylsulfate iodomethane etc. Thereafter 1 3 6 trimethyluracil 2 is further acylated to provide 3a via e.g. a Friedel Crafts mechanism in the presence of an appropriately substituted benzoyl chloride 3b and a Lewis acid catalyst e.g. ZnCl . Compound 3a can then be brominated to provide compound 4a . Reaction of compound 4a and an appropriately substituted N 2 aminophenyl acetamide 5b provides a ring condensed product 5a . Following deprotection of the amino group of 5a through conventional methods e.g. hydrolysis a deprotected compound 6a can be combined with Z CHO 7b to produce a ring condensed product 7a i.e. Structure I .

As described in greater detail herein pharmaceutical compositions are provided herein wherein the pharmaceutical composition comprises a pharmaceutically suitable excipient i.e. a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient or a physiologically suitable or acceptable excipient and at least one of the PPQ compounds of any one of the structures substructures and specific structures described herein including a compound of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures. The PPQ compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures described herein that are capable of inhibiting CFTR activity i.e. inhibiting reducing decreasing blocking transport of chloride ion in the CFTR channel or pore in a statistically clinically and or biologically significant manner in a cell may be used for treating diseases disorders and conditions that are treatable by inhibiting CFTR activity and include diseases disorder and conditions that result from or are related to aberrantly increased CFTR activity. Accordingly methods of inhibiting ion transport by CFTR are provided herein.

Also as described herein the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof that are CFTR inhibitors are useful in the treatment of a CFTR mediated or associated condition i.e. any condition disorder or disease that results from activity of CFTR such as CFTR mediated ion transport. The condition disorder or disease may result from aberrantly increased CFTR activity particularly aberrantly increased CFTR mediated ion transport. These conditions disorders and diseases are amenable to treatment by inhibition of CFTR activity e.g. inhibition of CFTR mediated ion such as chloride ion transport.

Accordingly methods are provided for treating a disease disorder or condition that is treatable by inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport. In certain embodiments methods are provided for inhibiting cyst formation and or cyst enlargement particularly kidney cyst formation or enlargement. These methods are described in greater detail below and herein.

The PPQ compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures as described herein are capable of blocking or impeding the CFTR pore or channel and inhibiting ion transport e.g. inhibiting chloride ion Cl transport also referred to as inhibiting chloride ion conductance by CFTR located in the outer cell membrane of a cell. Provided herein are methods of inhibiting ion transport by CFTR which methods comprise contacting a cell that has CFTR located in its outer membrane with any one or more of the PPQ compounds described herein thus permitting CFTR and the compound or compounds to interact. Interaction of a PPQ compound described herein results in binding to CFTR thereby inhibiting chloride ion transport.

In one embodiment a method is provided for inhibiting i.e. preventing retarding slowing cyst formation and or for inhibiting i.e. preventing retarding slowing or reducing cyst enlargement or reducing the size and or volume of one or more cysts which method comprises contacting a a cell that comprises CFTR and b at least one compound of structure I or of any substructures IA IB and specific structures as described herein under conditions and for a time sufficient for CFTR and the compound to interact wherein the compound inhibits ion e.g. chloride ion transport by CFTR i.e. the PPQ compound inhibits CFTR mediated ion transport in a statistically significant clinically significant and or biologically significant manner . In particular embodiments the cyst formation or cyst enlargement that is inhibited is kidney cyst formation or kidney cyst enlargement i.e. cyst formation or cyst enlargement in at least one kidney is inhibited .

Inhibiting kidney cyst formation and or cyst enlargement by the PPQ compounds described herein is useful for treating a patient who has been diagnosed with or who is at risk of developing polycystic kidney disease. Accordingly methods are provided herein for treating polycystic kidney disease which methods comprise administering to a subject in need thereof a a pharmaceutically suitable excipient and b at least one of the compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures as described herein i.e. a pharmaceutical composition as described herein . In a specific embodiment polycystic kidney disease is autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease. In another specific embodiment polycystic kidney disease is autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease.

In another embodiment a method for treating a disease disorder or condition that is treatable by inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport includes a disease disorder or condition that is associated with aberrantly increased CFTR mediated ion transport. Accordingly in a specific embodiment a method is provided for treating a disease condition or disorder associated with aberrantly increased ion transport by cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR wherein the method comprises administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically suitable excipient and at least one of the compounds of structure I substructures IA IB i.e. a pharmaceutical composition as described herein wherein ion transport mediated by CFTR is inhibited. In a specific embodiment the disease condition or disorder is aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion which may be acute aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion.

In another embodiment the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof are used in the treatment of conditions associated with aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion particularly acute aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion including secretory diarrhea. Diarrhea amenable to treatment using any one of the PPQ compounds described herein can result from exposure to a variety of agents or pathogens including those that cause an enteropathogenic infection. In a more specific embodiment secretory diarrhea is caused by an enteric pathogen. Exemplary enteric pathogens include without limitation particularly enterotoxigenic ETEC Including parasites e.g. e.g. or diarrheal viruses e.g. rotavirus . Secretory diarrhea resulting from an increased intestinal fluid secretion mediated by CFTR may also be a disorder or sequelae associated with food poisoning or exposure to a toxin including but not limited to a bacterial enterotoxin such as cholera toxin a toxin a toxin a toxin or a toxin or any other bacterial toxin that causes aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion.

Other secretory diarrheas that may be treated by administering any one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof described herein include diarrhea associated with or that is a sequelae of AIDS diarrhea that is a condition related to the effects of anti AIDS medications such as protease inhibitors diarrhea that is a condition of or is related to administration of chemotherapeutic compounds inflammatory gastrointestinal disorders such as ulcerative colitis inflammatory bowel disease IBD Crohn s disease diverticulosis and the like. Intestinal inflammation modulates the expression of three major mediators of intestinal salt transport and may contribute to diarrhea in ulcerative colitis both by increasing transepithelial Cl secretion and by inhibiting the epithelial NaCl absorption see e.g. Lohi et al. 283 G567 75 2002 . Thus one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof e.g. IA and IB and specific structures as described herein may be administered in an amount effective to inhibit CFTR ion transport and thus decrease intestinal fluid secretion.

As understood by a person skilled in the medical art the terms treat and treatment refer to medical management of a disease disorder or condition of a subject i.e. patient see e.g. Stedman s Medical Dictionary . In general an appropriate dose and treatment regimen provide the PPQ compound in an amount sufficient to provide therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit. Therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit includes for example an improved clinical outcome both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow or retard lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder or to prevent or slow or retard lessen the expansion or severity of such disorder. As discussed herein beneficial or desired clinical results from treating a subject include but are not limited to abatement lessening or alleviation of symptoms that result from or are associated the disease condition or disorder to be treated decreased occurrence of symptoms improved quality of life longer disease free status i.e. decreasing the likelihood or the propensity that a subject will present symptoms on the basis of which a diagnosis of a disease is made diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable and or overall survival. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival when compared to expected survival if a subject were not receiving treatment. Subjects in need of treatment include those who already have the condition or disorder as well as subjects prone to have or at risk of developing the disease condition or disorder and those in which the disease condition or disorder is to be prevented i.e. decreasing the likelihood of occurrence of the disease disorder or condition .

Other embodiments provided herein include use of at least one of the PPQ compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures as described herein for treating any one of the diseases or disorders described herein e.g. polycystic kidney disease aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion secretory diarrhea that is treatable by inhibiting ion transport e.g. chloride ion transport by CFTR. In one embodiment a use is provided for the preparation of a medicament for treating any one of the diseases conditions or disorders described herein e.g. polycystic kidney disease aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion secretory diarrhea that is treatable by inhibiting ion transport e.g. chloride ion transport by CFTR.

In other embodiments methods are provided for treating a disease disorder or condition described herein including but not limited to PCKD secretory diarrhea or other condition associated with aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion . Such methods comprise administering a pharmaceutical composition that comprises at least one PPQ compound and a pharmaceutically suitable i.e. pharmaceutically acceptable or physiologically suitable or acceptable excipient in combination either in the same composition or in a separate or second composition at least one thiazolidinone compound and or at least one glycine hydrazide compound that inhibit CFTR mediated ion transport see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 235 573 7 414 037 U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2008 0064666 International Patent Application Publication No. WO 2008 079897 U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 418 147 International Patent Application No. PCT US2009 038292 which are hereby incorporated by references in their entireties for treating any one of the diseases or disorders described herein that is treatable by inhibiting ion transport e.g. chloride ion transport by CFTR. When a first composition comprising at least one PPQ compound and a second composition comprising at least one thiazolidinone compound and or at least one glycine hydrazide compound is administered to a subject in need thereof the first composition may be administered prior to concurrently with or subsequent to administration of the second composition.

In particular embodiments of the methods described herein the subject is a human or non human animal. A subject in need of the treatments described herein may exhibit symptoms or sequelae of a disease disorder or condition described herein or may be at risk of developing the disease disorder or condition. Non human animals that may be treated include mammals for example non human primates e.g. monkey chimpanzee gorilla and the like rodents e.g. rats mice gerbils hamsters ferrets rabbits lagomorphs swine e.g. pig miniature pig equine canine feline bovine and other domestic farm and zoo animals.

In another embodiment a method is provided for inhibiting ion transport by a cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator CFTR comprising contacting a a cell that comprises CFTR and b at least one of the compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures described herein under conditions and for a time sufficient that permit CFTR and the compound to interact thereby inhibiting ion transport e.g. chloride ion transport by CFTR that is inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport.

In another embodiment a method is provided for treating secretory diarrhea comprising administering to a subject in need thereof a pharmaceutically acceptable excipient and at least one of the compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures described herein i.e. a pharmaceutical composition as described herein . In a particular embodiment the subject is a human or non human animal.

The pharmaceutical compositions and methods of using the PPQ compounds and compositions comprising these compounds are described in greater detail herein.

Also provided herein are methods that are useful for example for characterizing the potency of PPQ compounds and derivatives and analogs thereof to inhibit CFTR mediated ion transport particularly CFTR mediated chloride ion transport for monitoring the level i.e. for example concentration level mass level or IClevel of a PPQ compound that has been administered to a subject and examining disease pathogenesis in cystic fibrosis by blocking or inhibiting CFTR function as models for cystic fibrosis disease such as in ex vivo tissues e.g. human tissues and in animals.

In certain embodiments these methods may be performed in vitro such as with using a biological sample as described herein that comprises for example cells obtained from a tissue body fluid or culture adapted cell line or other biological source as described in detail herein below. The step of contacting refers to combining mixing or in some manner familiar to persons skilled in the art which permits the compound and the cell to interact such that any effect of the compound on CFTR activity e.g. the capability of a PPQ compound to inhibit CFTR ion transport or the level to which the compound inhibits CFTR ion transport can be measured according to methods described herein and routinely practiced in the art. Methods described herein for inhibiting ion transport by CFTR are understood to be performed under conditions and for a time sufficient that permit the CFTR and the compound to interact. Additional PPQ compounds may be identified and or characterized by such a method of inhibiting ion transport by CFTR performed with isolated cells in vitro. Conditions for a particular assay include temperature buffers including salts cations media and other components that maintain the integrity of the cell and the compound which a person skilled in the art will be familiar and or which can be readily determined. A person skilled in the art also readily appreciates that appropriate controls can be designed and included when performing the in vitro methods and in vivo methods described herein.

In secretory epithelia fluid secretion occurs by primary chloride exit across the cell apical membrane which secondarily drives transepithelial sodium and water secretion see e.g. Barrett et al. 62 535 72 2000 . In renal cells lumenal fluid accumulation causes progressive cyst expansion directly by net water influx into the cyst lumen and indirectly by stretching cyst wall epithelial cells to promote their division and thinning Ye et al. 329 310 13 1993 Sullivan et al. 78 1165 91 1998 Tanner et al. 6 1230 41 1995 . Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory CFTR inhibition interferes with fluid secretion at the apical chloride exit step.

Methods for characterizing a PPQ compound for determining an effective concentration to achieve a therapeutic benefit for monitoring the level of a PPQ compound in a biological sample and for other purposes as described herein and apparent to a person skilled in the art may be performed using techniques and procedures described herein and routinely practiced by a person skilled in the art. Exemplary methods include but are not limited to fluorescence cell based assays of CFTR inhibition see e.g. Galietta et al. 281 C1734 C1742 2001 short circuit apical chloride ion current measurements and patch clamp analysis see e.g. Muanprasat et al. 124 125 37 2004 Ma et al. 110 1651 58 2002 see also e.g. Carmeliet 55 5 26 1993 Hamill et al. 391 85 100 1981 .

Methods that may be used to characterize a PPQ compound including those described herein and to determine effectiveness of the compound for reducing inhibiting or preventing cyst enlargement and or preventing or inhibiting cyst formation and which compound is therefore useful for treating a subject who has or who is at risk of developing PKD include methods described in the art and herein. The PPQ compounds may be analyzed in models using embryonic or neonatal kidney organ cultures for example see e.g. Yang et al. 19 1300 1310 2008 Magenheimer et al. 17 3424 37 2006 . Without wishing to be bound by any particular theory certain scientific observations support use of CFTR inhibitors to slow cyst growth in autosomal dominant PKD ADPKD a CFTR is expressed strongly in epithelial cells lining cysts in ADPKD b cystic fibrosis CFTR deficient mice are resistant to cyst formation c CFTR inhibitors block cyst formation in cell organ culture and in vivo models and d in some families affected with ADPKD and cystic fibrosis individuals with both ADPKD and CF have less severe renal disease than those with ADPKD only see e.g. O Sullivan et al. 1998 32 976 983 Cotton et al. 1998 32 1081 1083 . Intact kidney models to study cystogenesis are useful for recapitulating native kidney anatomy and cellular phenotype see e.g. Magenheimer et al. 2006 17 3424 3437 .

An additional example of a cell culture model for determining whether a compound inhibits cyst formation or enlargement includes an MDCK cell Madin Darby Canine Kidney Epithelial Cell model of PKD Li et al. 66 1926 1938 2004 see also e.g. Neufeld et al. 41 1222 36 1992 Mangoo Karim et al. 86 6007 6011 1989 Mangoo Karim et al. 3 2629 32 1989 Grantham et al. 102 158 62 1989 Mohamed et al. 322 259 265 1997 . See also e.g. Murcia et al. 55 1187 97 1999 Igarishi et al. 13 2384 88 2002 . Accordingly provided herein are methods for identifying and or characterizing PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof by determining the capability of the compound to inhibit cyst enlargement or prevent or inhibit cyst formation in an in vitro cell culture model.

The MDCK cell line may also be used in methods and techniques for determining that a compound lacks cytotoxicity for example by evaluating cell viability e.g. by any one of numerous cell staining methods and microscopy methods routinely practiced in the art cell proliferation e.g. by determining the level of incorporation of nucleotide analogs and other methods for measuring division of cells and or apoptosis by using any one of a number of techniques and methods known in the art and described herein. Other methods for determining or quantifying the capability of a compound described herein to inhibit or reverse cyst enlargement or expansion and or to inhibit or prevent cyst formation and or to reduce the number of cysts formed include an embryonic kidney organ culture model which is practiced in the art and described herein see e.g. Magenheimer et al. 17 3424 37 2006 Steenhard et al. 16 1623 1631 2005 Yang et al. 19 1300 1310 2008 . In such an embryonic kidney culture model organotypic growth and differentiation of renal tissue can be monitored in defined media in the absence of any effect or influence by circulating hormones and glomerular filtration Magenheimer et al. supra Gupta et al. 63 365 376 2003 . In metanephric organ culture the early mouse kidney tubule has an intrinsic capacity to secrete fluid by a CFTR dependent mechanism in response to cAMP Magenheimer et al. supra .

Persons skilled in the art may also use animal models to characterize a PPQ compound including those described herein and to determine effectiveness of the compound for reducing inhibiting reversing or preventing cyst enlargement and or preventing or inhibiting cyst formation thereby reducing the number of cysts formed and to determine the usefulness of such compounds for treating a subject who has or who is at risk of developing PKD. By way of example Pkd1mice and Ksp Cre transgenic mice in a C57BL 6 background may be generated as described and practiced in the art see e.g. Shibazaki et al. 13 10 11 2004 abstract Shao et al. 13 1837 46 2002 . Ksp Cre mice express Cre recombinase under the control of the Ksp cadherin promoter see e.g. Shao et al. supra . Pkd1 Ksp Cre mice may be generated by cross breeding Pkd1mice with Pkd1 Ksp Cre mice. The effect of a test compound may be determined by quantifying cyst size and growth in metanephroi and kidney sections histological analyses of tissues and cells and delay or prevention of renal failure and death see e.g. Shibazaki et al. supra .

The PPQ compounds may also be analyzed in animal models that are art accepted animal models for increased intestinal fluid secretion. By way of example a closed intestinal loop model of cholera suckling mouse model of cholera and in vivo imaging of gastrointestinal transit may be used for characterizing the PPQ compounds described herein see e.g. Takeda et al. 19 752 54 1978 see also e.g. Spira et al. 32 739 747 1981 .

Methods of inhibiting CFTR mediated ion transport include in vitro methods that comprise contacting a cell with any one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof as described herein under conditions and for a time sufficient for CFTR present in the outer membrane of the cell and the compound to interact. Cells or cell lines that may be used in such methods are cells that expresses CFTR and have channels or pores formed by CFTR in the cell membrane. Exemplary cells and cell lines include without limitation a Fischer rat thyroid FRT cell including a FRT cell that co expresses human or other animal wildtype CFTR and the halide indicator YFP H148Q or other comparable yellow fluorescent protein a cultured human bronchial epithelial cell and a gastrointestinal cell such as T84 human intestinal epithelial cells that comprises CFTR in the outer membrane of the cell. Such methods are useful for identifying analogs of the PPQ compounds i.e. species of structure I including species of substructures IA and IB described herein and for characterizing the PPQ compounds described herein.

In certain embodiments the cell is contacted in an in vitro assay and the cell may be obtained from a subject or from a biological sample. A biological sample may be a blood sample from which serum or plasma may be prepared and cells isolated biopsy specimen body fluids e.g. lung lavage ascites mucosal washings synovial fluid bone marrow lymph nodes tissue explant e.g. kidney cells organ culture e.g. kidney or any other tissue or cell preparation from a subject or a biological source. A sample may further refer to a tissue or cell preparation in which the morphological integrity or physical state has been disrupted for example by dissection dissociation solubilization fractionation homogenization biochemical or chemical extraction pulverization lyophilization sonication or any other means for processing a sample derived from a subject or biological source. The subject or biological source may be a human or non human animal a primary cell culture e.g. immune cells virus infected cells or culture adapted cell line including but not limited to genetically engineered cell lines that may contain chromosomally integrated or episomal recombinant nucleic acid sequences immortalized or immortalizable cell lines somatic cell hybrid cell lines differentiated or differentiatable cell lines transformed cell lines and the like.

Also provided herein are pharmaceutical compositions comprising any one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof . The compounds described herein may be formulated in a pharmaceutical composition for use in treatment or preventive or prophylactic treatment e.g. reducing the likelihood of occurrence of cyst formation of polycystic kidney disease PKD which includes autosomal dominant PKD ADPKD and autosomal recessive PKD ARPKD . In other embodiments a pharmaceutical composition comprising at least one PPQ compound may be formulated for use in treatment or preventive treatment i.e. for reducing the likelihood of occurrence of a disease condition or disorder manifested by increased intestinal fluid secretion such as secretory diarrhea.

In pharmaceutical dosage forms any one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures described herein may be administered in the form of a pharmaceutically acceptable derivative such as a salt or they may also be used alone or in appropriate association as well as in combination with other pharmaceutically active compounds. The methods and excipients described herein are merely exemplary and are in no way limiting.

Optimal doses may generally be determined using experimental models and or clinical trials. The optimal dose may depend upon the body mass weight or blood volume of the subject. In general the amount of a PPQ compound of structure I and substructures thereof described herein that is present in a dose ranges from about 0.01 g to about 1000 g per kg weight of the host. The use of the minimum dose that is sufficient to provide effective therapy is usually preferred. Subjects may generally be monitored for therapeutic effectiveness using assays suitable for the condition being treated or prevented which assays will be familiar to those having ordinary skill in the art and are described herein. The level of a compound that is administered to a subject may be monitored by determining the level of the compound in a biological fluid for example in the blood blood fraction e.g. serum and or in the urine and or other biological sample from the subject. Any method practiced in the art to detect the compound may be used to measure the level of compound during the course of a therapeutic regimen.

The dose of a composition comprising at least one of the PPQ compounds described herein for treating PCKD may depend upon the subject s condition that is stage of the disease renal function severity of symptoms caused by enlarged cysts general health status as well as age gender and weight and other factors apparent to a person skilled in the medical art. Similarly the dose of the PPQ compound for treating a disease or disorder associated with aberrantly increased CFTR function including but not limited to intestinal fluid secretion secretory diarrhea such as a toxin induced diarrhea or secretory diarrhea associated with or a sequelae of an enteropathogenic infection Traveler s diarrhea ulcerative colitis irritable bowel syndrome IBS AIDS chemotherapy and other diseases or conditions described herein may be determined according to parameters understood by a person skilled in the medical art. Accordingly the appropriate dose may depend upon the subject s condition that is stage of the disease general health status as well as age gender and weight and other factors considered by a person skilled in the medical art.

Pharmaceutical compositions may be administered in a manner appropriate to the disease or disorder to be treated as determined by persons skilled in the medical arts. An appropriate dose and a suitable duration and frequency of administration will be determined by such factors as the condition of the patient the type and severity of the patient s disease the particular form of the active ingredient and the method of administration. In general an appropriate dose or effective dose and treatment regimen provides the composition s comprising at least one PPQ compound in an amount sufficient to provide therapeutic and or prophylactic benefit for example an improved clinical outcome such as more frequent complete or partial remissions or longer disease free and or overall survival or a lessening of symptom severity or other benefit as described in detail above . When a subject is treated for aberrantly increased intestinal fluid secretion clinical assessment of the level of dehydration and or electrolyte imbalance may be performed to determine the level of effectiveness of a compound and whether dose or other administration parameters such as frequency of administration or route of administration should be adjusted.

Polycystic kidney disease PKD or PCKD and polycystic renal disease are used interchangeably and refer to a group of disorders characterized by a large number of cysts distributed throughout enlarged kidneys. The resultant cyst development leads to impairment of kidney function and can eventually cause kidney failure. PDK includes autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease ADPKD and recessive autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease ADPKD in all stages of development regardless of the underlying etiology or cause. Effectiveness of a treatment for PKD may be monitored by one or more of several methods practiced in the medical art including for example by monitoring renal function by standard measurements and by radiologic investigations that are performed with ultrasounds computerized tomography CT or magnetic resonance imaging which are useful for evaluating renal cyst morphology and volume and estimating the amount of residual renal parenchyma.

To evaluate and to monitor the effectiveness of any one of the PPQ compounds described herein to treat PKD or a related disease or condition one or more of several clinical assay methods may be performed that are familiar to a person skilled in the clinical art. For example a clinical method called a urea clearance test may be performed. A blood sample is obtained from a subject to whom the compound is being administered so that the amount of urea in the bloodstream can be determined. In addition a first urine sample is collected from the subject and at least one hour later a second urine sample is collected. The amount of urea quantified in the urine indicates the amount of urea that is filtered or cleared by the kidneys into the urine. Another clinical assay method measures urine osmolality i.e. the amount of dissolved solute particles in the urine . Inability of the kidneys to concentrate the urine in response to restricted fluid intake or to dilute the urine in response to increased fluid intake during osmolality testing may indicate decreased kidney function.

Urea is a by product of protein metabolism and is formed in the liver. Urea is then filtered from the blood and excreted in the urine by the kidneys. The BUN blood urea nitrogen test measures the amount of nitrogen contained in the urea. High BUN levels may indicate kidney dysfunction but because blood urea nitrogen is also affected by protein intake and liver function the test is usually performed in conjunction with determination of blood creatinine which is considered a more specific indicator of kidney function. Low clearance values for creatinine and urea indicate diminished ability of the kidneys to filter these waste products from the blood and excrete them in the urine. As clearance levels decrease blood levels of creatinine and urea nitrogen increase. An abnormally elevated blood creatinine a more specific and sensitive indicator of kidney disease than the BUN is diagnostic of impaired kidney function.

The pharmaceutical compositions described herein that comprise at least one PPQ compound may be administered to a subject in need by any one of several routes that effectively deliver an effective amount of the compound. Such administrative routes include for example oral parenteral enteral rectal intranasal buccal sublingual intramuscular and transdermal. By way of example at least one or more of the compounds may be administered to a mucosal surface of the gastrointestinal tract e.g. by an enteral route which includes administration directly to the tract via a tube inserted into the nose stomach or small intestine or to a mucosal surface of the oral or nasal cavities or e.g. intranasal buccal sublingual and the like . These administrative methods and additional methods are discussed in greater detail herein.

A pharmaceutical composition may be a sterile aqueous or non aqueous solution suspension or emulsion which additionally comprises a physiologically acceptable excipient pharmaceutically acceptable or suitable excipient or carrier i.e. a non toxic material that does not interfere with the activity of the active ingredient . Such compositions may be in the form of a solid liquid or gas aerosol . Alternatively compositions described herein may be formulated as a lyophilizate or compounds may be encapsulated within liposomes using technology known in the art. Pharmaceutical compositions may also contain other components which may be biologically active or inactive. Such components include but are not limited to buffers e.g. neutral buffered saline or phosphate buffered saline carbohydrates e.g. glucose mannose sucrose or dextrans mannitol proteins polypeptides or amino acids such as glycine antioxidants chelating agents such as EDTA or glutathione stabilizers dyes flavoring agents and suspending agents and or preservatives.

Any suitable excipient or carrier known to those of ordinary skill in the art for use in pharmaceutical compositions may be employed in the compositions described herein. Excipients for therapeutic use are well known and are described for example in Gennaro 21Ed. Mack Pub. Co. Easton Pa. 2005 . In general the type of excipient is selected based on the mode of administration. Pharmaceutical compositions may be formulated for any appropriate manner of administration including for example topical oral nasal intrathecal rectal vaginal intraocular subconjunctival sublingual or parenteral administration including subcutaneous intravenous intramuscular intrasternal intracavernous intrameatal or intraurethral injection or infusion. For parenteral administration the carrier preferably comprises water saline alcohol a fat a wax or a buffer. For oral administration any of the above excipients or a solid excipient or carrier such as mannitol lactose starch magnesium stearate sodium saccharine talcum cellulose kaolin glycerin starch dextrins sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose glucose sucrose and or magnesium carbonate may be employed.

A pharmaceutical composition e.g. for oral administration or delivery by injection may be in the form of a liquid. A liquid pharmaceutical composition may include for example one or more of the following a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution preferably physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils that may serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents antioxidants chelating agents buffers and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic. The use of physiological saline is preferred and an injectable pharmaceutical composition is preferably sterile.

A composition comprising any one of the compounds of structure I and substructures IA and IB described herein may be formulated for sustained or slow release. Such compositions may generally be prepared using well known technology and administered by for example oral rectal or subcutaneous implantation or by implantation at the desired target site. Sustained release formulations may contain a compound dispersed in a carrier matrix and or contained within a reservoir surrounded by a rate controlling membrane. Excipients for use within such formulations are biocompatible and may also be biodegradable preferably the formulation provides a relatively constant level of active component release. The amount of active compound contained within a sustained release formulation depends upon the site of implantation the rate and expected duration of release and the nature of the condition to be treated or prevented.

For oral formulations a PPQ compound of structure I and substructures IA and IB can be used alone or in combination with appropriate additives to make tablets powders granules or capsules for example with conventional additives such as lactose mannitol corn starch or potato starch with binders such as starch gelatin natural sugars such as glucose or beta lactose corn sweeteners natural and synthetic gums such as acacia tragacanth or sodium alginate carboxymethylcellulose polyethylene glycol waxes crystalline cellulose cellulose derivatives and acacia with disintegrators such as corn starch potato starch or sodium carboxymethylcellulose methyl cellulose agar bentonite or xanthan gum with lubricants such as talc sodium oleate magnesium stearate sodium stearate sodium benzoate sodium acetate or sodium chloride and if desired with diluents buffering agents moistening agents preservatives coloring agents and flavoring agents. The compounds may be formulated with a buffering agent to provide for protection of the compound from low pH of the gastric environment and or an enteric coating. The PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof may be formulated for oral delivery with a flavoring agent e.g. in a liquid solid or semi solid formulation and or with an enteric coating.

Oral formulations may be provided as gelatin capsules which may contain the active compound along with powdered carriers such as lactose starch cellulose derivatives magnesium stearate stearic acid and the like. Similar carriers and diluents may be used to make compressed tablets. Tablets and capsules can be manufactured as sustained release products to provide for continuous release of active ingredients over a period of time. Compressed tablets can be sugar coated or film coated to mask any unpleasant taste and protect the tablet from the atmosphere or enteric coated for selective disintegration in the gastrointestinal tract. Liquid dosage forms for oral administration may contain coloring and or flavoring agents to increase acceptance of the compound by the subject.

The PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof described herein can be made into suppositories by mixing with a variety of bases such as emulsifying bases or water soluble bases. The compounds described herein can be administered rectally via a suppository. The suppository can include vehicles such as cocoa butter carbowaxes and polyethylene glycols which melt at body temperature yet are solidified at room temperature.

The PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof described herein may be used in aerosol formulation to be administered via inhalation. The compounds may be formulated into pressurized acceptable propellants such as dichlorodifluoromethane propane nitrogen and the like.

Any one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof described herein may be administered topically e.g. by transdermal administration . Topical formulations may be in the form of a transdermal patch ointment paste lotion cream gel and the like. Topical formulations may include one or more of a penetrating agent thickener diluent emulsifier dispersing aid or binder. When a PPQ compound is formulated for transdermal delivery the compound may be formulated with or for use with a penetration enhancer. Penetration enhancers which include chemical penetration enhancers and physical penetration enhancers facilitate delivery of the compound through the skin and may also be referred to as permeation enhancers interchangeably. Physical penetration enhancers include for example electrophoretic techniques such as iontophoresis use of ultrasound or phonophoresis and the like. Chemical penetration enhancers are agents administered either prior to with or immediately following compound administration which increase the permeability of the skin particularly the stratum corneum to provide for enhanced penetration of the drug through the skin. Additional chemical and physical penetration enhancers are described in for example Transdermal Delivery of Drugs A. F. Kydonieus ED 1987 CRL Press Percutaneous Penetration Enhancers eds. Smith et al. CRC Press 1995 Lenneruas et al. 2002 54 4 499 508 Karande et al. 2002 19 5 655 60 Vaddi et al. 2002 July 91 7 1639 51 Ventura et al. 2001 9 5 379 93 Shokri et al. 2001 228 1 2 99 107 Suzuki et al. 2001 24 6 698 700 Alberti et al. 2001 71 3 319 27 Goldstein et al. 2001 57 2 301 5 Kiijavainen et al. 2000 10 2 97 102 and Tenjarla et al. 1999 192 2 147 58.

When a PPQ compound of structure I and substructures thereof is formulated with a chemical penetration enhancer the penetration enhancer is selected for compatibility with the compound and is present in an amount sufficient to facilitate delivery of the compound through skin of a subject e.g. for delivery of the compound to the systemic circulation. The PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof may be provided in a drug delivery patch e.g. a transmucosal or transdermal patch and can be formulated with a penetration enhancer. The patch generally includes a backing layer which is impermeable to the compound and other formulation components a matrix in contact with one side of the backing layer which matrix provides for sustained release which may be controlled release of the compound and an adhesive layer which is on the same side of the backing layer as the matrix. The matrix can be selected as is suitable for the route of administration and can be for example a polymeric or hydrogel matrix.

In one embodiment the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof are delivered to the gastrointestinal tract of the subject to provide for decreased fluid secretion. Suitable formulations for this embodiment include any formulation that provides for delivery of the compound to the gastrointestinal surface particularly an intestinal tract surface.

For use in the methods described herein one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof described herein may be formulated with other pharmaceutically active agents or compounds including other CFTR inhibiting agents and compounds or agents and compounds that block intestinal chloride channels e.g. a glycine hydrazide compound or thiazolidinone compound as discussed herein . Similarly one or more of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof described herein may be formulated with other pharmaceutically active agents or compounds including other CFTR inhibiting agents and compounds or other agents and compounds that are administered to a subject for treating PKD.

Kits with unit doses of the PPQ compounds of structure I and substructures thereof described herein usually in oral or injectable doses are provided. Such kits may include a container containing the unit dose an informational package insert describing the use and attendant benefits of the drugs in treating pathological condition of interest and optionally an appliance or device for delivery of the composition.

Also provided herein are methods of manufacturing the pharmaceutical compositions described herein that comprise at least one of the PPQ compounds of structure I substructures IA IB and specific structures as described herein. In one embodiment the method of manufacture comprises synthesis of the compound. Synthesis of one of more of the compounds described herein may be performed according to methods described herein and practiced in the art. In another method of manufacture the method comprises comprise formulating i.e. combining mixing at least one of the compounds disclosed herein with a pharmaceutically suitable excipient. These methods are performed under conditions that permit formulation and or maintenance of the desired state i.e. liquid or solid for example of each of the compound and excipient. A method of manufacture may comprise one or more of the steps of synthesizing the at least one compound formulating the compound with at least one pharmaceutically suitable excipient to form a pharmaceutical composition and dispensing the formulated pharmaceutical composition in an appropriate vessel i.e. a vessel appropriate for storage and or distribution of the pharmaceutical composition .

Other embodiments and uses will be apparent to one skilled in the art in light of the present disclosures. The following examples are provided merely as illustrative of various embodiments and shall not be construed to limit the invention in any way.

Synthesis procedures General H and C NMR spectra were obtained in deuterated dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO d using a 400 MHz Varian Spectrometer referenced to DMSO. Mass spectrometry was performed using a Waters LC MS system Alliance HT 2790 ZQ HPLC Waters model 2690 Milford Mass. . Flash chromatography was performed using EM silica gel 230 400 mesh and thin layer chromatography was performed using Merk silica gel 60 F254 plates Darmstadt Germany . Microwave reactions were performed in a Biotage Initiator Biotage Uppsala Sweden 0.5 2 mL vials with target temperature reached within 30 s at 55 watts. Melting points are uncorrected. Purity to 98 was confirmed by LCMS.

Synthesis of PPQ 102 Synthesis of PPQ 102 was achieved in six steps as illustrated in . Commercially available 6 methyluracil 1 was methylated using dimethylsulfate to produce 1 3 6 trimethyluracil 2 which upon Friedel Crafts acylation using zinc chloride as a catalyst yielded 5 benzoyl 1 3 6 trimethylpyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 3 as a white powder. Bromination of 3 followed by reaction with N 2 aminophenyl acetamide generated amino protected intermediate 5. The acetamido function of 5 was hydrolyzed and resultant intermediate 6 was cyclocondensed with 5 methylfurfural to yield yellowish white racemic PPQ 102 7. Aromatic compound 8 which lacks a stereocenter was prepared from 7 by oxidation with potassium permanganate.

Reagents and conditions for reactions shown in a MeSO NaOH 40 C. 4 h 43 b PhCOCl ZnCl toluene reflux 6 h 28 c Br CHCl rt 2 h 57 d N 2 aminophenyl acetamide microwave 170 C. 1 h 51 e HCl reflux 6 h 67 f 5 Me furan 2 carbaldehyde 170 C. 10 min 43 g KMnO MeCO 1 h 40 . Synthesis of PPQ 102 and intermediates is described in greater detail below.

1 3 6 Trimethyl 1H 3H pyrimidine 2 4 dione 2 . See e.g. Azas et al. 58 1263 1270 2003 . Dimethylsulfate 106 g 80 ml 844 mmol was added dropwise to a solution of 2 4 dihydroxy 6 methylpyrimidine 30 g 238 mmol in 280 mL of 4 N NaOH at 40 C. After stirring for 4 h at 40 C. the reaction mixture was neutralized with careful addition of acetic acid and extracted 3 times with 100 mL of ethyl acetate. Combined organics were dried over MgSOand concentrated in vacuo to yield a white solid. Recrystallization from ethanol yielded 2 15.8 g 43 mp 113 114 C. H NMR DMSO d 5.58 s 1H 3.26 s 3H 3.09 s 3H 2.19 s 3H MS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHNO 155.17. found 155.93. This compound matched the analytical data as reported see e.g. Azas et al. 58 1263 1270 2003 .

5 Benzoyl 1 3 6 trimethylpyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 3 . A mixture of 1 3 6 trimethyl compound 2 12.3 g 80 mmol benzoyl chloride 11.5 g 9.5 mL 82 mmol and anhydrous zinc chloride 10.8 g 79 mmol in toluene 100 mL was heated to reflux for 6 h. The mixture was poured over ice 200 g and the separated toluene layer was concentrated in vacuo. The crude residue was purified by flash chromatography to yield 3 5.8 g 28 mp 132 134 C. MS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHNO 259.28. found 259.09. This compound matched analytical data as reported see e.g. Tsupak et al. 7 1096 1102 2003 .

5 Benzoyl 6 bromomethyl 1 3 dimethylpyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 4 . See e.g. Tsupak et al. 7 1096 1102 2003 Tsupak et al. 55 2265 2270 2006 . To a solution of 3 2.61 g 10.1 mmol in chloroform 13 mL was added bromine 1.62 g 0.52 mL 20.3 mmol in 3 mL chloroform dropwise over 30 min at room temperature. The reaction mixture was further stirred for 1 min at room temperature before concentrated in vacuo. The crude reaction mixture was purified by flash chromatography to yield 4 1.96 g 57 mp 164 167 C. MS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHBrNO 338.18. found 337.15 338.93. This compound matched analytical data as reported see e.g. Tsupak et al. . supra Tsupak et al. . supra .

N 2 1 3 dimethyl 2 4 dioxo 5 phenyl 3 4 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 6 2H yl phenyl acetamide 5 . A mixture of N 2 aminophenyl acetamide 315 mg 2.1 mmol bromo compound 4 680 mg 2 mmol triethylamine 200 mg 280 L 2 mmol and ethanol 2 mL was microwave heated at 170 C. for 1 h 2 5 mL vial pressure 13 bar . The shiny white crystalline mass was filtered washed and recrystallized from ethanol to give 5 392 mg 51 yield mp 250 C. H NMR DMSO d 9.17 s 1H 7.69 d 1H pyrrole CH J 8.06 Hz 7.33 7.14 m 6H 7.10 6.94 m 3H 3.31 s 3H 3.17 s 3H 1.87 s 3H . MS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHNO 389.43. found 389.19.

6 2 Aminophenyl 1 3 dimethyl 5 phenyl 1H pyrrolo 3 4 d pyrimidine 2 4 3H 6H dione 6 . Acetamide compound 5 200 mg 0.5 mmol was refluxed in hydrochloric acid 4 N 10 mL for 6 h. The reaction mixture was evaporated under vacuum and the residue was dissolved in water and neutralized to give 6 120 mg 67 as a white precipitate mp 300 C. H NMR DMSO d 7.32 7.26 m 2H 7.23 7.15 m 3H 7.00 t 1H J 7.32 Hz 6.87 s 1H 6.80 d 1H J 7.69 6.70 d 1H J 8.06 Hz 6.41 t 1H J 7.32 Hz 5.00 s 2H 3.29 s 3H 3.16 s 3H MS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHNO 347.39. found 347.10.

7 9 Dimethyl 11 phenyl 6 5 methylfuran 2 yl 5 6 dihydro pyrimido 4 5 3 4 pyrrolo 1 2 a quinoxaline 8 10 7H 9H dione PPQ 102 7 . A mixture of 5 methylfuran 2 carbaldehyde 32 mg 29 l 0.29 mmol compound 6 101 mg 0.29 mmol and ethanol 1 mL were heated in a microwave reactor at 170 C. for 10 min. A white product was isolated washed and recrystallized from ethanol to afford 51 mg of 7 42 yield m.p. 300 C. H NMR DMSO d 7.41 broad m 4H 6.95 d 2H J 8.42 Hz 6.90 6.83 m 2H 6.29 d 2H J 2.93 Hz 6.08 d 1H J 2.19 Hz 5.80 d 1H J 2.93 Hz 5.69 d 1H J 2.93 Hz 3.50 s 3H 3.12 s 3H 2.11 s 3H . C NMR DMSO 159.2 153.1 151.9 151.9 139.2 131.5 129.6 129.4 128.8 126.9 124.3 122.8 120.6 118.2 117.6 111.9 108.9 107.1 105.2 47.8 32.3 28.2 13.9. HRMS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHNO 439.1765. found 439.1771.

N 2 1 3 dimethyl 2 4 dioxo 5 phenyl 3 4 dihydro 1H pyrrolo 3 4 d pyrimidin 6 2H yl phenyl 5 methylfuran 2 carboxamide 8 . To a solution of 7 12 mg 27 mol in 2 mL acetone was added dropwise a saturated solution of potassium permanganate 13 mg 80 mol 200 L . The reaction mixture was stirred for 1 h at room temperature and filtered. The residue was processed by standard methods see e.g. Oels et al. 23 2546 2551 1977 and the acetone solution was evaporated to yield 8 5 mg 40 . MS ES m z M 1 calculated for CHNO 437.47. found 437.12.

A. Cell lines and compounds Fischer rat thyroid FRT cells co expressing human wildtype CFTR and the halide indicator YFP H148Q 1152L were generated as described see e.g. Ma et al. 110 1651 1658 2002 . Cells were plated in 96 well black walled microplates Corning Costar at a density of 20 000 cells per well in Coon s modified F12 medium supplemented with 5 fetal calf serum 2 mM L glutamine 100 U mL penicillin and 100 g ml streptomycin. Assays were performed at 48 h after plating the cells when the cells were just confluent. For some experiments measurements were made using T84 human intestinal epithelial cells and for other experiments measurements were obtained using primary cultures of human bronchial epithelial cells which were obtained and grown essentially as previously described see e.g. 3 and 27 .

The compound collections used for screening to identify CFTR inhibitors included approximately 105 000 synthetic small molecules from ChemDiv San Diego Calif. and Asinex San Diego Calif. and approximately 7500 purified natural compounds from Analyticon Potsdam Germany Timtek Newark N.J. and Biomol Plymouth Meeting Pa. . Compounds were maintained as DMSO stock solutions. Structure activity analysis was performed using analogs purchased from ChemDiv and Asinex.

B. Compound Screening Assays were performed using an automated screening platform Beckman equipped with FLUOStar fluorescence platereaders BMG Lab Technologies Offenburg Germany as described see Ma et al. supra . Each well of a 96 well plate containing FRT cells was washed 3 times in PBS 300 L wash leaving 50 L PBS. Ten L of a CFTR activating cocktail 5 M forskolin 100 M IBMX 25 M apigenin in PBS were added and after 5 min test compounds 0.5 L of 1 mM DMSO solution were added to each well at 25 M final compound concentration. After 15 min 96 well plates were transferred to a plate reader for fluorescence assay. Each well was assayed individually for CFTR mediated iodide influx by recording fluorescence continuously 200 ms per point for 2 s baseline and then for 10 s after rapid addition of 160 L of isosmolar PBS in which 137 mM chloride was replaced by iodide. The initial rate of iodide influx was computed from fluorescence data by non linear regression. Each plate contained negative DMSO vehicle and positive 10 M CFTR 172 controls.

C. Short Circuit Current Measurements Snapwell inserts containing CFTR expressing FRT cells stably expressing human wildtype CFTR T84 cells or human bronchial epithelial cells were mounted in Ussing chambers. For FRT cells the hemichambers were filled with 5 mL of 75 mM NaCl and 75 mM Na gluconate apical and 150 mM NaCl basolateral pH 7.3 and the basolateral membrane was permeabilized with 250 g mL amphotericin B. For bronchial epithelial cells and T84 cells both hemichambers contained a Krebs bicarbonate solution. Hemichambers were continuously bubbled with air FRT cells or 5 COin air bronchial and T84 cells and maintained at 37 C. Short circuit current was recorded continuously using a DVC 1000 voltage clamp World Precision Instruments Sarasota Fla. using Ag AgCl electrodes and 3 M KCl agar bridges.

D. Patch Clamp Analysis Whole cell recordings were performed using FRT cells stably expressing human wildtype CFTR. The pipette solution contained 140 mM N methyl D glucamine chloride NMDG Cl 5 mM EGTA 1 mM MgCl 1 mM Tris ATP and 10 mM HEPES pH 7.2 and the bath solution contained 140 mM N methyl D glucamine chloride 1 mM CaCl 1 mM MgCl 10 mM glucose and 10 mM HEPES pH 7.4 . Experiments were performed at room temperature 22 25 C. . Pipettes were pulled from borosilicate glass and had resistances of 3 5 Mohm after fire polishing. Seal resistances were typically between 3 and 10 Gohm. After establishing the whole cell configuration CFTR was activated by adding forskolin and 3 isobutyl 1 methylxanthine IBMX . Whole cell currents were elicited by applying hyperpolarizing and depolarizing voltage pulses from a holding potential of 0 mV to potentials between 100 mV and 100 mV in steps of 20 mV. Current was filtered at 5 kHz and digitized and analyzed using an AxoScope 10.0 system and a Digidata 1440A AC DC converter Molecular Devices Sunnyvale Calif. . The single channel characteristics of CFTR were analyzed in the cell attached configuration using fire polished pipettes with a resistance of 10 15 Mohm. The pipette solution contained in mM 140 NMDG Cl 1 CaCl 1 MgCl 5 glucose and 10 HEPES pH 7.4 and the bath solution contained 140 KCl 1 CaCl 1 MgCl 5 glucose and 10 HEPES pH 7.4 . Recordings were performed at room temperature using an Axopatch 200B Axon Instruments Foster City Calif. . The voltage and current data were low pass filtered at 1 kHz and stored for later analysis. Single channel data were digitally filtered at 25 Hz and analyzed using Clampfit 10.0 software Axon Instruments .

E. Embryonic Organ Culture Model of PKD Mouse embryos were obtained at embryonic day 13.5 E13.5 . Metanephroi were dissected and placed on transparent Falcon 0.4 mm diameter porous cell culture inserts as described see e.g. Sonawane et al. 15 718 728 2008 . To the culture inserts was added DMEM Ham s F 12 nutrient medium supplemented with 2 mM L glutamine 10 mM HEPES 5 g mL insulin 5 g mL transferrin 2.8 nM selenium 25 ng ml prostaglandin E 32 pg ml T3 250 U ml penicillin and 250 g ml streptomycin. Kidneys were maintained in a 37 C. humidified COincubator for up to 8 days. Culture medium containing 100 M 8 Br cAMP with or without CFTR inhibitor was replaced in the lower chamber every 12 h. In some studies CFTR inhibitor was added at 3 days after 8 Br cAMP to test its efficacy in reversing pre formed cysts. Kidneys were photographed using a Nikon inverted microscope Nikon TE 2000 S equipped with 2 objective lens 520 nm bandpass filter and high resolution CCD camera. Percentage cyst area was calculated as total cyst area divided by total kidney area.

Collections of synthetic and natural compounds were screened according to the screening procedures described in Example 2. A cell based fluorescence assay was used in which CFTR inhibitors were identified by reduced iodide influx in FRT cells co expressing human CFTR and a YFP halide sensor. CFTR was maximally activated by a mixture of agonists having different activating mechanisms. Inhibition of iodide influx was observed as reduced YFP fluorescence quenching in response to rapid iodide addition to each well of 96 well plates. Based on prior knowledge that a small percent of active CFTR inhibitors are identified from random screening of compounds primary screening was performed at 25 M test compounds that were pre incubated for 15 min prior to measuring fluorescence.

Structure activity analysis was undertaken to identify the most potent PPQ class CFTR inhibitors for further characterization and biological testing. Of 347 commercially available PPQ analogs that were screened using the fluorescence screening assay 54 compounds inhibited CFTR mediated iodide influx by greater than 50 at 25 M. Table 1 summarizes CFTR inhibition data for exemplary PPQ compounds that inhibit CFTR. summarizes CFTR inhibitory activity of PPQ compounds with respect to the effect of various substituents of the PPQ compounds. PPQ analogs having a 5 methyl furanyl moiety PPQ 101 to PPQ 105 showed greater inhibition potencies than unsubstituted furanyl and thiophene analogs Group 1 Table 1 . Compounds comprising other heterocycles such as 1H benzimidazole 2 yl and chromenone in place of furan were inactive. Analogs containing phenyls PPQ 201 to PPQ 203 PPQ 209 and PPQ 210 Group 2 Table 1 were moderately less potent than the furan analogs PPQ 101 and PPQ 102. In summary as indicated in Table 1 and PPQ compounds exhibiting the greatest CFTR inhibition activity had a 5 methyl furan ring 3 methylphenyl moiety and the pyrimido 4 5 3 4 pyrrolo 1 2 a quinoxaline template. The furan moiety in many of the active compounds could be replaced with the relatively stable phenyl moiety with minimal loss of activity. All active analogs had a phenyl ring substituted or unsubstituted at the 2 position of pyrrole. Methyl substituents on this phenyl ring increased CFTR inhibition potency as observed for PPQ 101 102 103 and PPQ 215 202 213. Aromatization of PPQ 102 to PPQ 102b compound 8 see which removes the stereocenter which results in a planar structure abolished CFTR inhibition activity.

PPQ compounds of structure I substructures IA IB were tested and the percent inhibition data from the screening are shown in Table 2 below.

This Example describes potency reversibility and specificity of an exemplary PPQ compound PPQ 102 as determined by CFTR chloride conductance.

The most potent CFTR inhibitor confirmed by electrophysiological testing PPQ 102 was synthesized as described in Example 1 confirmed and further characterized. Short circuit current analysis was performed as described in Example 2. left shows PPQ 102 inhibition of chloride current in CFTR expressing FRT cells following CFTR stimulation by the cAMP agonist CPT cAMP. Measurements were taken in the presence of a transepithelial chloride gradient and following basolateral membrane permeabilization with amphotericin B so that measured current is a direct quantitative measure of CFTR chloride conductance. PPQ inhibition of CFTR was approximately 100 at higher concentrations with IC 90 nM see right . Inhibition occurred over several minutes at low PPQ 102 concentrations suggesting an intracellular site of action. Inhibition was reversible which was observed by complete restoration of CFTR chloride current after 30 min incubation with 2 M PPQ 102 followed by 10 min washout.

PPQ 102 did not inhibit calcium activated chloride channels or cellular cAMP production. shows little inhibition of UTP induced chloride currents in cystic fibrosis human bronchial cells by 10 or 20 M PPQ 102. shows no significant effect of 10 M PPQ 102 on basal or forskolin stimulated cAMP production.

Whole cell membrane current was measured by patch clamp in CFTR expressing FRT cells see Example 2 . The results are presented in . Stimulation by 10 M forskolin produced a membrane current of 172 39 pA pF n 4 at 100 mV total membrane capacitance 13 1 pF see left . PPQ 102 at 0.5 M exhibited approximately 65 inhibition of CFTR chloride current. As shown in right an approximately linear current voltage relationship for CFTR is observed see also e.g. Sheppard et al. 79 S23 452 1999 Gadsby et al. 40 477 483 2006 . The CFTR current voltage relationship remained linear after PPQ 102 addition indicting a voltage independent block mechanism as expected for an uncharged inhibitor.

Cell attached patch recordings were performed to examine single channel CFTR function. The results are presented in . Addition of 10 M forskolin and 100 M IBMX to the bath resulted in CFTR channel opening. CFTR unitary conductance was 7 pS at 80 mV. Application of 1 M PPQ 102 did not change unitary conductance but reduced channel activity markedly as seen by the less frequent channel openings as illustrated in left . Channel open probability P was reduced from 0.50 0.04 to 0.14 0.03. Mean channel open time did not significantly change but mean channel closed time was greatly increased see right . Without wishing to be bound by theory these results suggest that PPQ 102 inhibits CFTR by an altered channel gating mechanism with stabilization of the channel closed state.

This Example describes analysis of the PPQ compound PPQ 102 in an embryonic kidney culture model of polycystic kidney disease.

Kidneys were removed from day 13.5 embryonic mice and maintained in organ culture where they continue to grow. Examination of kidneys by transmission light microscopy showed that the kidneys in organ culture did not form cysts under control conditions. Multiple cysts did form and progressively enlarged when the culture medium was supplemented with the CFTR agonist 8 Br cAMP see left . Inclusion of PPQ 102 in the culture medium did not affect kidney growth but significantly reduced the number and size of renal cysts formed in the 8 Br cAMP containing medium. right summarizes the percentage area occupied by cysts from studies performed on many kidneys showing approximately 60 inhibition of cyst formation by 0.5 M PPQ 102 and near complete absence of cysts at 2.5 and 5 M PPQ 102. In control studies in which 2.5 M PPQ 102 was removed after 3 days in organ culture cysts rapidly enlarged in the continued presence of 8 Br cAMP indicating that the inhibition effect of PPQ 102 is reversible. shows representative hematoxylin and eosin stained paraffin sections of control and 8 Br cAMP treated kidneys cultured for 4 day in the presence of indicated concentrations of PPQ 102. In agreement with the transmission light micrographs of intact kidneys PPQ 102 reduced cyst size.

The ability of PPQ 102 to reduce fluid accumulation in pre formed cysts was tested by adding PPQ 102 to the 8 Br cAMP containing medium after kidneys were cultured for 3 days in the presence of 8 Br cAMP. shows reduction in cyst size over 1 and 2 days after inclusion of PPQ 102 in the culture medium. Without wishing to be bound by theory shrinking of pre formed cysts by PPQ 102 supports that renal cystogenesis involves a balance between active fluid secretion into and absorption from the cyst lumen.

All U.S. patents U.S. patent application publications U.S. patent applications foreign patents foreign patent applications and non patent publications referred to in this specification and or listed in the Application Data Sheet are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

From the foregoing although specific embodiments have been described herein for purposes of illustration various modifications may be made without deviating from the spirit and scope of the invention. Those skilled in the art will recognize or be able to ascertain using no more than routine experimentation many equivalents to the specific embodiments described herein. Such equivalents are intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

