---

title: System and method for dynamically managing connections using feature prioritization
abstract: Techniques to dynamically manage wireless connections using feature prioritization are described. For example, a mobile computing device may comprise a connection management module operative to access a list of one or more wireless networks, compare feature set information for the one or more wireless networks, select a wireless network based on the comparison, and initiate a wireless connection using the selected wireless network, wherein the feature set information is contained in the list. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615236&OS=08615236&RS=08615236
owner: Palm, Inc.
number: 08615236
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100604
---
Mobile computing devices such as smart phones may provide various processing capabilities. For example mobile devices may provide personal digital assistant PDA features including word processing spreadsheets synchronization of information e.g. e mail with a desktop computer and so forth. In addition such devices may have wireless communications capabilities. More particularly mobile devices may employ various communications technologies to provide features such as mobile telephony mobile e mail access web browsing and content e.g. video and radio reception. Exemplary wireless communications technologies include cellular satellite and mobile data networking technologies.

Providing such an array of functionality in a single device provides users with a variety of options in selecting appropriate wireless communications technologies or wireless networks to perform wireless communications tasks. When communicating it is advantageous to select manually or automatically a wireless network based on device network or other conditions to improve performance and user experience. As a result it is desirable to enhance the dynamic selection of wireless communications technologies or networks. For example it may be advantageous to dynamically select a wireless communication technology or wireless network using feature set information for one or more wireless networks. Consequently there exists a substantial need for techniques to improve the selection and management of wireless connections.

Various embodiments may be generally directed to connection management techniques for a mobile computing device such as a smart phone. Some embodiments may be particularly directed to dynamic connection management techniques for a mobile computing device based on system network or other parameters including feature set information prioritization for one or more wireless networks.

In one embodiment for example a mobile computing device may include a connection management module. In various embodiments the connection management module may be operative to access a list of one or more wireless networks compare feature set information for the one or more wireless networks select a wireless network based on the comparison and initiate a wireless connection using the selected wireless network. In some embodiments the feature set information may be contained in the list.

Examples of feature set information may include but are not limited to one or more of network parameters system parameters network availability signal quality signal strength connection speed connection type connection specification cost of connection a list of available voice services a transmission quality parameter a reliability parameter a communication protocol a device capability a voice service feature cost value a power parameter user preference a location a calling region and so forth. Other examples of communication parameters may include without limitation a network scanning threshold parameter a radio frequency channel parameter an access point parameter a rate selection parameter a frame size parameter an aggregation size parameter a packet retry limit parameter a protocol parameter a radio parameter modulation and coding scheme MCS acknowledgement parameter media access control MAC layer parameter physical PHY layer parameter and any other communication parameters affecting operations for a radio transceiver or wireless communication technology implemented by the mobile computing device . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The terms wireless network wireless transceiver s and wireless connection technology are interchangeable as used hereinafter.

Dynamically selecting one of a plurality of wireless networks based on feature set prioritization of the networks may provide several advantages. For example by enabling dynamic selection based on feature set prioritization a user may enjoy the benefit of continually establishing connections based on device user or application requirements device or user preferences cost quality location time system resources or any number of other factors at any time without unnecessarily interacting with the mobile computing device or specifically selecting a wireless network to satisfy any or all of the above factors each time a connection is desired. If a user is in an area where their home network does not provide an adequate data connection for example it may be advantageous for the mobile computing device to automatically and or dynamically determine which of any available wireless networks would be most efficient and or most likely to meet the connectivity requirements for the mobile computing device. This may be accomplished in some embodiments by ranking available wireless networks based on feature set information that describes or otherwise provides information regarding the capabilities for the wireless networks.

Present implementations for selecting a roaming wireless network primarily rely on a list of default roaming carriers or wireless networks that are available for a mobile computing device. For example a default roaming carrier list may be generated by a home wireless network or carrier with whom a user has a plan agreement based on roaming agreements that exist between carriers or wireless networks. This default list may not however prioritize features of the roaming carriers which may result in lapses in performance for mobile computing devices when a roaming carrier or wireless network is selected based on the default list when in some embodiments a wireless network or carrier may be available that provides superior wireless connectivity.

In some embodiments it may be advantageous to select the best of the available wireless network or carrier based on the features or other parameters of the carriers or networks. For example if a cellular circuit switching connection is desired and several different cellular circuit switching connections are available e.g. through different carriers etc. the best connection may be selected regardless of roaming or any other factor. Limiting user interaction in the dynamic selection monitoring and updating of wireless connections may improve user experience and system and network performance. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design parameters or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include other combinations of elements in alternate arrangements as desired for a given implementation. It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

The mobile computing device may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. The mobile computing device may be implemented as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone sometimes referred to as a smart phone. Examples of smart phones include for example Palm products such as Palm Pre smart phones. Although some embodiments may be described with the mobile computing device implemented as a smart phone by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the mobile computing device may comprise or be implemented as any type of wireless device mobile station or portable computing device with a self contained power source e.g. battery such as a laptop computer ultra laptop computer personal digital assistant PDA cellular telephone combination cellular telephone PDA mobile unit subscriber station user terminal portable computer handheld computer palmtop computer wearable computer media player pager messaging device data communication device and so forth. Additional details for a mobile computing device may be described in more detail with reference to .

Similarly in various embodiments remote device may comprise a wireless communication device similar to mobile computing device that may be generally configured to support or provide cellular voice communication wireless data communication and computing capabilities. For example remote device may comprise a second mobile computing device a router a node B cellular interface gateway switch or other network device capable of wirelessly communicating with mobile computing device . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The mobile computing device may include a processor coupled to the connection management module in some embodiments. The processor may be operative to execute the connection management module . The mobile computing device may further include a memory coupled to the processor . The memory may be operative to store the connection management module . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The processor may comprise a general purpose processor or an application specific processor arranged to provide general or specific computing capabilities for the communications system . For example the processor may perform operations associated with higher layer protocols and applications. For instance the processor may be implemented as a host processor to provide various user applications such as telephony text messaging e mail web browsing word processing video signal display and so forth. In addition the processor may provide one or more functional utilities that are available to various protocols operations and or applications. Examples of such utilities include operating systems device drivers user interface functionality and so forth.

The memory may comprise computer readable media such as volatile or non volatile memory units arranged to store programs and data for execution by the processor . In some embodiments the computer readable media memory or other storage device may comprise a non transitory storage device. As depicted in the memory may store a connection management module in the form of executable program instructions code or data. The processor may retrieve and execute the program instructions code or data from the memory to control or provide dynamic connection management operations for the mobile computing device . Although the connection management module is shown as part of the memory for execution by the processor it may be appreciated that connection management module may be stored and executed by other memory and processing resources available to the mobile computing device . Further although connection management module is depicted as software executed by a processor it may be appreciated that the operations for connection management module may be implemented in hardware as well using one or more integrated circuits for example. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may include one or more modules such as transceiver connection technology modules and or antennas arranged to communicate information over one or more types of wireless communication links and or wireless networks. Examples of a wireless communication links and or wireless networks may include without limitation a radio channel infrared channel radio frequency RF channel WiFi channel a portion of the RF spectrum and or one or more licensed or license free frequency bands. In the latter case the wireless nodes may include one more wireless interfaces and or components for wireless communication such as one or more transmitters receivers transmitter receivers transceivers radios chipsets amplifiers filters control logic network interface cards NICs antennas antenna arrays and so forth. Examples of an antenna may include without limitation an internal antenna an omni directional antenna a monopole antenna a dipole antenna an end fed antenna a circularly polarized antenna a micro strip antenna a diversity antenna a dual antenna an antenna array and so forth. In one embodiment certain devices may include antenna arrays of multiple antennas to implement various adaptive antenna techniques and spatial diversity techniques. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments connection management module may be configured to and or operative to dynamically select a wireless connection technology or wireless network based on feature set information for one or more wireless networks wherein the feature set information is obtained from a list of one or more wireless networks and to initiate a wireless connection with the wireless network using the selected wireless connection technology. For example mobile computing device may have the capability of establishing different types of wireless connections for different purposes. In some embodiments a connection for establishing a telephone call or voice connection with a target device using one or more of cellular circuit switching Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP switching over a wireless local area network a wireless metropolitan area network or any other suitable connection technology may be possible. In various embodiments mobile computing device may also have the capability of establishing a data connection using cellular circuit switching or switching over a wireless local area network a wireless metropolitan area network or any other suitable connection technology. While a limited number of connection technologies for a limited number of uses are described herein for purposes of illustration it should be understood that any suitable connection technology wireless communication technology wireless network or standard could be used to establish any type of wireless connection and still fall within the described embodiments.

In some embodiments the dynamic selection of a connection technology or wireless network by the connection management module may be based on feature set information for one or more wireless networks. The feature set information may comprise for example one or more of network parameters system parameters network availability signal quality signal strength connection speed connection type connection specification or cost of connection. While a limited number and type of feature set information is described for purposes of illustration it should be understood that any number type or form of feature set information could be used and still fall within the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the feature set information may be associated with or available for one or more wireless networks that may be accessible by the mobile computing device . For example the one or more wireless networks comprise one or more cellular circuit switching networks wireless local area networks or wireless metropolitan area networks. In some embodiments the one or more wireless networks comprise one or more roaming wireless networks that are accessed when a home wireless network for the mobile computing device is not available or does not provide a predefined level of wireless connectivity.

In some embodiments a home wireless network may comprise a wireless network with which the mobile computing device or a user of the mobile computing device is registered. For example a home wireless network may comprise a wireless network or carrier with whom a user has agreed to a service contract. A roaming wireless network may comprise in various embodiments a wireless network or carrier that may be operative to extend the connectivity service for a mobile computing device in a location that is different from the home wireless network or that provides different or supplemental services than the home wireless network. For example a mobile computing device may utilize a roaming wireless network when a subscriber of a home wireless network uses the facilities of a roaming wireless network and the roaming wireless network has no direct pre existing financial or service agreement with this user or the mobile computing device to send or receive information. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The feature set information may be contained in a list available to mobile computing device in some embodiments. For example mobile computing device may have access to a list of one or more wireless network and the list may include the feature set information. The list may include any relevant feature set information for any number of carriers or wireless networks and still fall within the described embodiments.

As shown in list each connection may include different features . For example connection includes features and n connection includes features and connection includes features and n connection includes features and n and connection m includes features and n. In various embodiments connection management module may use this information to determine which connection to select. Priority may be given to features and for example and connection management module may therefore rank connections and higher than connections and m that do not include both of features and .

List simply illustrates whether or not a particular connection does or does not include a feature . In some embodiments list may additionally include information concerning the strength or quality of one or more features or any other suitable information. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the list may be stored on a computer readable storage medium of the mobile computing device or it may be stored on one or more devices of the wireless networks or a home wireless network and may be wirelessly accessible by the mobile computing device . The computer readable storage medium that contains the list and the feature set information may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM of the mobile computing device in some embodiments. In various embodiments the feature set information may be preconfigured or preloaded and stored on the SIM by a home wireless network provider or by a user of the mobile computing device. For example a home wireless network provider may preload a SIM with roaming wireless network information including feature set information for the roaming wireless networks or carriers. In some embodiments a user of mobile computing device may additionally or alternatively have the option of updating changing or otherwise amending the list to reflect changes in roaming wireless networks or to reflect user preferences.

Returning to in various embodiments connection management module may be configured to access the list of one or more wireless networks. For example if the list is stored on a memory or other computer readable storage medium of mobile computing device connection management module may be operative to directly or indirectly e.g. via processor for example obtain or otherwise access the list. In some embodiments the list may be contained or reside in a location outside mobile computing device in which case connection management module may be operative to establish and manage a wireless connection with the device s containing the list. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

Connection management module may be operative to compare feature set information for the one or more wireless networks and select a wireless network based on the comparison in various embodiments. For example connection management module may be operative to determine a desired type of wireless connection based on device or use characteristics of the mobile computing device rank the one or more wireless networks based on the comparison and or the desired type of wireless connection and select a wireless network based on the ranking. In various embodiments connection management module may be operative to initiate a wireless connection using the selected wireless network.

In some embodiments connection management module may comprise or include an algorithm for implementing the ranking comparison and or selection using the feature set information. In various embodiments the connection management module may include a default ranking of feature set information or a user configurable ranking of feature set information. The ranking may include for example an indication of preferences for certain types of wireless networks features signal strengths or any other suitable factor.

In some embodiments the user configurable ranking of feature set information may include a ranking of wireless voice connections wireless data connections or one or more types of wireless voice or data connections. For example a user may prefer to prioritize wireless networks that offer data connections over wireless network that do not offer data connections. In some embodiments a user may also wish to prioritize wireless networks that offer faster data connections over wireless networks that offer slower data connections. For example it may be advantageous to prioritize 4G wireless networks over 3G wireless networks and 3G wireless networks over 2G wireless networks. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the connection management module may be configured to execute an algorithm to generate an expected quality of service QoS or service matrix for each connection technology wireless network or carrier and may select a connection technology or wireless network based on the expected QoS or switching matrix. For example the algorithm may include any of the above or any other factors relevant to establishing a wireless connection using one of a plurality of available connection technologies . In some embodiments the expected QoS and or service matrix may be based on one or more performance or cost metrics for each available connection technology . Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments the connection management module may be configured to automatically initiate a wireless connection with one or more target devices or remote device using the dynamically selected connection technology or wireless network. For example a user may enable the dynamic selection using the connection management module as a system preference or application and may optionally enter preferences regarding connection technologies and connections during a setup process. After being enabled the dynamic selection and automatic connection process may continue with limited or no user interaction until the feature is disabled altered or otherwise disconnected.

In some embodiments dynamic selection and automatic connection initiation by the connection management module may be a default feature that is implemented when a device is activated and may optionally be deactivated by a user. Making the dynamic selection based on feature set information prioritization and automatic connection a default operation may result in a user never needing to change any preferences regarding wireless connections in some embodiments and may improve the overall performance of mobile computing device .

The connection management preference application may comprise one or more visible user interfaces for ease of use in some embodiments. For example the application may comprise a simple interface allowing a user to enable or disable the dynamic connection selection feature and to select preferences for establishing connections including ranking or prioritizing wireless networks or particular features of wireless networks. Preferences may include for example ranking of items by importance to the user such as cost quality processing impact or any other factor. In some embodiments an underlying or hidden layer may be configured for decision making. For example the algorithm described above may comprise the underlying layer.

In various embodiments the connection management module may be configured to monitor the selected connection technology or wireless network and one or more non selected connection technologies after a connection has been established. For example mobile computing device may establish a connection with a wireless network or remote device using a dynamically selected connection technology and the connection management module may thereafter continue to monitor to the established connection as well as other available connections. In some embodiments the connection management module may be configured to automatically perform a handoff to one of the one or more non selected connection technologies based on changes in system network or other parameters. For example if the connection management module determines that a non selected connection technology is now more advantageous than the currently implemented connection technology a handoff may occur. The handoff may be transparent to the user in some embodiments in that the handoff occurs in the background without dropping an existing call or data connection for example.

Operations for the above embodiments may be further described with reference to the following figures and accompanying examples. Some of the figures may include a logic diagram. Although such figures presented herein may include a particular logic diagram it can be appreciated that the logic diagram merely provides an example of how the general functionality as described herein can be implemented. Further the given logic diagram does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the given logic diagram may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

In various embodiments a request to initiate a wireless connection may be received at . For example a user may initiate a wireless telephone call using mobile computing device in an effort to establish a wireless telephone connection with a user of a target device or a user may request an email application to check for current email using a wireless data connection. At a required or desired type of wireless connection may be determined in some embodiments. For example connection management module may execute an algorithm or otherwise determine what type of wireless connection is required or acceptable to perform the task s associated with the requested wireless connection.

At a list of one or more wireless networks may be accessed in some embodiments. For example mobile computing device may access a list of wireless networks contained in a SIM of the mobile computing device wherein the list may additionally contain feature set information for the one or more wireless networks. In various embodiments the feature set information for the one or more wireless networks may be compared at . Connection management module may for example include an algorithm operative to evaluate the feature set information for the wireless networks. At in some embodiments the one or more wireless networks may be ranked based on the comparison and the desired or required type of wireless connection. For example if the request to initiate a wireless connection requires a data connection connection management module may rank the one or more wireless networks based on the feature set information pertaining to establishing a wireless data connection.

In some embodiments a determination is made at whether or not the highest ranked wireless network is available. For example connection management module may determine based on the comparison and ranking which wireless network would be suit the current demands of mobile computing device and may determine if this network is available for establishing a wireless connection.

If the high ranked network is available this wireless network is selected at and at a wireless connection is initiated using the selected wireless network. If on the other hand the high ranked network is not available the next highest ranked wireless networks will be evaluated in respective order until a suitable network is found and this network is selected at and at a wireless connection is initiated using the selected wireless network. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

In various embodiments a wireless network may be selected based on the comparison at . For example connection management module may be operative to dynamically select a wireless network based on a ranking and comparison of the feature set information provided for each wireless network. In some embodiments the feature set information is contained in the list of one or more wireless networks that may for example be stored on a SIM of the mobile computing device . At in some embodiments a wireless network connection may be initiated using the selected wireless network. Other embodiments are described and claimed.

The ranking and comparison may comprise in some embodiments determining a desired type of wireless connection based on device or use characteristics of the mobile computing device ranking the one or more wireless networks based on the comparison and the desired type of wireless connection and selecting a wireless network based on the ranking. In various embodiments the ranking may include consideration of feature set information including but not limited to one or more of network parameters system parameters network availability signal quality signal strength connection speed connection type connection specification or cost of connection.

The host processor e.g. similar to the processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although the mobile computing device is shown with a dual processor architecture it may be appreciated that the mobile computing device may use any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors in accordance with the described embodiments. In one embodiment for example the processors may be implemented using a single integrated processor.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. The host processor may also be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of the host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of computer readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth. The keypad may comprise a physical keypad using hard buttons or a virtual keypad using soft buttons displayed on a display .

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 46 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. The touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise a vibrate motor coupled to the host processor . The vibrate motor may be enable or disabled according to the preferences of the user of the mobile computing device . When enabled the vibrate motor may cause the mobile computing device to move or shake in a generic and or patterned fashion in response to a triggering event such as the receipt of a telephone call text message an alarm condition a game condition and so forth. Vibration may occur for a fixed duration and or periodically according to a pulse.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11 WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to synchronize information with a local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers such as speaker system an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a Musical Instrument Digital Interface MIDI device a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. The radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. The radio processor may also be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments. The radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using any of the computer readable media described with reference to the memory . The memory may be typically implemented as flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the radio processor some or all of the memory may be included on the same IC as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth similar to transceivers connection technologies of . In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communications and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. In some embodiments the transceiver module may further comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals similar to antennas of . As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM may be implemented as an UMTS universal SIM USIM card or a CDMA removable user identity module RUIM card. The SIM may comprise a SIM application toolkit STK comprising a set of programmed commands for enabling the SIM to perform various functions. In some cases the STK may be arranged to enable the SIM to independently control various aspects of the mobile computing device .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs including system programs such as operating system OS and application programs . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. The OS may be implemented for example as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE OS Microsoft Pocket PC OS Microsoft Mobile OS Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux OS Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS or other suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments. The mobile computing device may comprise other system programs such as device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

Examples of application programs may include without limitation messaging applications web browsing applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. Messaging applications may be arranged to communicate various types of messages in a variety of formats. Examples of messaging applications may include without limitation a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application a voicemail application a facsimile application a video teleconferencing application an IM application an e mail application an SMS application an MMS application and so forth. It is also to be appreciated that the mobile computing device may implement other types of applications in accordance with the described embodiments.

The host processor may include a connection management module . The connection management module may the same or similar to the connection management module described with reference to .

The mobile computing device may include various databases implemented in the memory . For example the mobile computing device may include a message content database a message log database a contacts database a media database a preferences database and so forth. The message content database may be arranged to store content and attachments e.g. media objects for various types of messages sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The message log may be arranged to track various types of messages which are sent and received by one or more messaging applications. The contacts database may be arranged to store contact records for individuals or entities specified by the user of the mobile computing device . The media database may be arranged to store various types of media content such as image information audio information video information and or other data. The preferences database may be arranged to store various settings such as rules and parameters for controlling the operation of the mobile computing device .

In some cases various embodiments may be implemented as an article of manufacture. The article of manufacture may include a storage medium arranged to store logic and or data for performing various operations of one or more embodiments. Examples of storage media may include without limitation those examples as previously described. In various embodiments for example the article of manufacture may comprise a magnetic disk optical disk flash memory or firmware containing computer program instructions suitable for execution by a general purpose processor or application specific processor. The embodiments however are not limited in this context.

Various embodiments may be implemented using hardware elements software elements or a combination of both. Examples of hardware elements may include any of the examples as previously provided for a logic device and further including microprocessors circuits circuit elements e.g. transistors resistors capacitors inductors and so forth integrated circuits logic gates registers semiconductor device chips microchips chip sets and so forth. Examples of software elements may include software components programs applications computer programs application programs system programs machine programs operating system software middleware firmware software modules routines subroutines functions methods procedures software interfaces application program interfaces API instruction sets computing code computer code code segments computer code segments words values symbols or any combination thereof. Determining whether an embodiment is implemented using hardware elements and or software elements may vary in accordance with any number of factors such as desired computational rate power levels heat tolerances processing cycle budget input data rates output data rates memory resources data bus speeds and other design or performance constraints as desired for a given implementation.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not necessarily intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

It is emphasized that the Abstract of the Disclosure is provided to comply with 37 C.F.R. Section 1.72 b requiring an abstract that will allow the reader to quickly ascertain the nature of the technical disclosure. It is submitted with the understanding that it will not be used to interpret or limit the scope or meaning of the claims. In addition in the foregoing Detailed Description it can be seen that various features are grouped together in a single embodiment for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure. This method of disclosure is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed embodiments require more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive subject matter lies in less than all features of a single disclosed embodiment. Thus the following claims are hereby incorporated into the Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment. In the appended claims the terms including and in which are used as the plain English equivalents of the respective terms comprising and wherein respectively. Moreover the terms first second third and so forth are used merely as labels and are not intended to impose numerical requirements on their objects.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

