---

title: Video interaction with a mobile device and a video device
abstract: A method and apparatus for displaying information and content on a handheld wireless or other mobile device that is related to video content being presented on a nearby video device. The video content presented on the video device is delivered over a first communication channel and the related information and content displayed on the mobile device is delivered over a separate second communication channel from a remote server. The information and content received over the second communication channel is synchronized with the first primary video content so as to change automatically to correspond as the primary video content is presented on the video device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549578&OS=08549578&RS=08549578
owner: ACK Ventures Holdings, LLC
number: 08549578
owner_city: Westport
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 950 321 filed on Sep. 10 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 712 125 which claims the benefit U.S. patent application 60 231 285 filed on Sep. 8 2000 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

One rudimentary level of television interaction for example is achieved with a simple remote controller which enables local control of the channel volume picture quality and other aspects of the television presentation.

A variety of schemes also have been proposed to enable a user to interact more actively with the television program content.

In the invention the user is provided a significantly enhanced interactive capability by establishing a second parallel channel of interactivity on a personal digital assistant or similar device.

In general in one aspect the invention features a method that includes delivering interactive material at least partly wirelessly to a mobile device in the vicinity of a video device on which video content is being displayed the interactive material being related to the video content.

Implementations of the invention include one or more of the following features. The interactive material is presented to a user in time synchronization with the video content. The interactive material includes an element e.g. a displayed icon for receiving input from the user. A tag is generated representative of a user s interest in an item of interactive material. The tag may be generated by capturing a time and a channel of video content or by sending a query from the mobile device to a server at the time when a user indicates an interest in an item of interactive material or by a server in response to a query from the mobile device. Or the server may broadcast tags that are dynamically synchronized with the video content. The interactive material includes information that includes at least one of the following text images video audio. The interactive material is received wirelessly at the mobile device. The video device comprises a television or video player. The interactive material supplements the video content. The mobile device comprises at least one of the following a remote controller a personal digital assistant or a mobile telephone. At least some of the interactive material is delivered based on preference information associated with a viewer of the video content. In general in another aspect the invention features a method that includes receiving interactive material at least partly wirelessly at a mobile device in the vicinity of a video device on which video content is being displayed the interactive material being related to the video content.

In general in another aspect the invention features a method that includes creating interactive material that is adapted to be delivered to or received at a mobile device in the vicinity of a video device on which video content is being displayed the interactive material being created to be related to the video content.

In general in another aspect the invention features apparatus that includes a mobile device including software configured to cause the mobile device to present interactive material in the vicinity of a video device on which video content is being displayed the interactive material being related to the video content. In implementations of the invention the mobile device may include a display screen a user input output facility and a wireless communication facility. The mobile device may be a personal digital assistant a telephone or a remote controller.

In general in another aspect the invention features apparatus that includes a server including software configured to deliver interactive material at least partly wirelessly to a mobile device in the vicinity of a video device on which video content is being displayed the interactive material being related to the video content.

In general in another aspect the invention features a storage medium bearing software adapted to configure a device to receive interactive material at least partly wirelessly at a mobile device in the vicinity of a video device on which video content is being displayed the interactive material being related to the video content.

In general in another aspect the invention features a storage medium bearing software adapted to configure a device to deliver interactive material at a mobile device in the vicinity of a video device on which video content is being displayed the interactive material being related to the video content.

In general in another aspect the invention features a method that includes receiving at a server an identification of video content identifying interactivity material related to the video content and enabling a user to interact with the interactivity material in connection with viewing of the video content. In implementations of the invention the user is enabled to indicate interactivity material of interest to him tags are generated in response to indications of the user of material that interests him the material of interest is provided to the user at a later time based on the tags and the interactivity material is presented to the user synchronously with the related video content.

Instead of requiring modifications to the video content broadcast stream or demanding that a user purchase additional equipment the invention works with existing video systems and a user s handheld device requiring only an Internet connection.

The invention incorporates an intuitive aesthetic interface that allows a user simply to tap on the screen of his handheld when TV content of interest appears on the TV screen.

For the content provider all that is required is to provide the information necessary for the interactive links on their own servers.

The invention allows PDA and mobile phone users to expand their TV viewing experience by letting them grab subjects or individual items in TV programs or commercials to expand the viewing experience and gather further information on content of interest. The invention resolves the design battle for screen real estate by allowing the enhanced television experience to occur in the palm of the hand rather than on the television set. The invention avoids interrupting the viewing experience which is protected because the user is not required to deal immediately with the grabbed content.

The invention enhances television commercials allowing users to acquire additional information as well as purchase goods. Advertisers can offer users targeted promotions as well as gain instant feedback about the effectiveness of their advertising.

The invention enables a user s mobile device to act also as a universal remote control for the user s television and entertainment system. The mobile device can also display functions of an Electronic Programming Guide EPG give specifically targeted promotions for programming and offer easily accessed program schedules all within the same device that provides the content enhancements.

Given user permissions the mobile device can organize content grabbed by the user so that content is hierarchically displayed according to a user s pre set interests. Advertisers can use this information to offer user targeted promotions. The system can also allow filtering to streamline the display based on the user s preferences. For instance a hockey fan viewing enhanced sports content from a news broadcast may not want to see further information on the day s tennis match. He can set his profile to indicate this.

Other advantages and features will become apparent from the following description and from the claims.

As shown in a user s experience in viewing and using video content on a video device can be enhanced by enabling the user to interact with a mobile device such as an advanced remote controller that is synchronized with the video content for example by indicating other content that may be of interest to the user. As the user views the video content he may be prompted periodically e.g. by a hot icon on a display of the mobile device or in some other way of an opportunity for interactivity that coincides with or is related to the video content.

The viewer may indicate an interest in the available interactivity by for example invoking the icon which triggers the generation of a tag . The tag may be stored in the local memory of the mobile device and or provided in some way to a remote server . The tags enable the server to provide the interactivity to the user either immediately or at some later time or in some other way.

1. The tag can be a timestamp that captures the time using a system clock on the mobile device and the channel of video content that is being viewed at that time. The time and channel identity can together be called the coordinates . When the coordinates are sent to a remote server the server can retrieve interactivity information and functions corresponding the coordinates and can return the information or provide the functions to the mobile device.

2. The tag can be in the form of a query sent to the server at the exact time that the user indicates interest by invoking the icon. The server responds with the corresponding information or functions which are then stored in the remote device for use in interacting with the user.

3. The tagging can be done by server in response to the mobile device querying the server at the exact time of the viewer s indicated interest. The server may generate the tag including embedded links and return it to the mobile device where it is stored. Later by clicking on a displayed version of this tag and on displayed versions of the embedded links the user can access the server to retrieve the interactivity information or functions.

4. Alternatively the server may constantly broadcast a changing set of tags that are dynamically synchronized to the changing video content being viewed by the user. The mobile device displays the tags as they are received. When the user sees something of interest he invokes the currently displayed tag which corresponds to the current video content. The tag holds embedded links and the user can then access interactivity information or functions that correspond to the links.

The tagging methods allow the user to access and retrieve additional information and functions synchronously or asynchronously to the changing stream of video content. For example the additional information or functions could involve a additional news that supplements news contained in the video content b e commerce opportunities c web pages on the Internet d participation in newsgroups e an opportunity to ask questions e setting the mobile device to perform some action such as recording future video content or f any other information action or transaction that the host of the remote server chooses to make available.

The mobile device may be powered by a battery and include an input output capability such as a touch screen a keypad or a microphone to receive voice. A wireless access capability may be included to provide for wireless access to the video device both to control the video device much as a conventional remote controller would do or to display information on the video device. A second wireless access capability provides wireless access to the Internet or other wide area network to carry the tags queries coordinates and interactivity information and functions. In some cases wireless access to the video device will be sufficient to provide the functions of wireless capability if the video device has the ability to communicate through the network . 

The mobile device runs software that is configured to perform the following functions 1 provide secure networking capability to access the server through the network 2 display text and images and perform sound and video 3 tag information as explained earlier and 4 store information as explained earlier.

The interactivity information and functions which can together be called the interaction content are created by an interaction content creator using content creation software and then loaded into the server for use at run time. The content creator develops the interaction content based on the video content on various channels of the video feed that are known to the creator in advance of the feed being delivered to the user s video device. Each item of interaction content may be related to one or more segment of video content and may be associated with that segment as part of the content creation.

The content creation software provides the following functions 1 a graphical user interface that enables the content creator to author information and functions that are to be synchronized to video content that will be conveyed to the user 2 a tag generation function that enables the creator to build tags that include audio video text and images 3 a function that enables a content creator to build icons and interactivity information and functions 4 the testing of software to validate links and 5 staging software to mount finished interactivity content to the staging server . The interaction content is loaded into the interactivity information and functions stored at the server. At the same time a table or map that associates video content segments with related interaction segments can be loaded into the server.

The server runs server staging software that 1 manages and hosts interactivity content created using the content creation software 2 affords networking capability to manage multiple simultaneous requests from mobile devices 3 manages preference and personalization information that customizes the interactivity content to the user 4 builds reports on usage to enable feedback for advertising and marketing purposes and 5 enables creation and recording of e commerce transactions. At run time the server can use tags generated by user interaction with the mobile device indicating the video content being viewed to identify and serve related interaction content based on associations stored in the map . The server can also base the interaction content on the more general preference and personalization information .

Referring in more detail to the mobile device the wireless capability could use any of a wide variety of protocols including PCS cellular Bluetooth 802.11 WiFi Infrared or alternative technology. The mobile device could be able to connect to and control the video feed that drives the video device for example in the way that a universal remote controller controls a television VCR settop box or other video device. The mobile device must also simultaneously connect to the network .

The mobile device could be for example a wireless enabled PDA such as a Compaq iPaq or Palm Pilot or an advanced functionality remote controller of the kind that includes a color LCD screen an infrared link to control the television VCR settop box or other video device and an 802.11b card to connect to a local area network to provides access to the Internet.

In one example of the use of the system a user watching a television would also see a video or still picture on the screen of his remote controller that is serving as the mobile device. The video or still picture which may be thought of as a mobile feed that is separate from the video feed changes continually as arranged by the content creator to correspond to the video content carried on the video feed.

If the user changes the channel of the video feed using the remote controller the mobile feed is automatically changed by the server to the new channel. The information and functions on the remote controller are updated in real time over the network and are synchronized with the video feed by the server.

From time to time the mobile feed displayed on the remote controller will display a hot icon to prompt the user that interactivity is available. The interactivity opportunity is predetermined by the content author of the mobile feed. If the video content on the video feed piques the user s interest at the time of the prompting the user can tap the hot icon on the screen or invoke the interactivity opportunity by voice command or keyboard which tags the content. From a user interface perspective when the user tags the content the hot icon moves from the mobile feed window to a folder or area where it is stored for later access. The stored icon then represents the link that the user can later click to access interactivity information or functions that the author of the tag has created. The user can access save store and send the information or function. The author of the tag can determine whether the user can edit the information or function. The user may choose to access the tagged information on the mobile device or may send it to another device such as a computer television or other device that has a screen and input output capability. The interactivity content is portable and may be sent to other people and other devices.

To enable the synchronization of content between the video feed and the mobile feed the mobile device is able to identify the channel of the video feed is on and report the channel to the server. If the mobile device is one that has remote controller functionality then when the user changes channel the channel identity is automatically known to the controller and can be reported to the server.

Alternatively the user may specifically enter the number of the channel into the mobile device at the time he changes channels or the television settop box or VCR may send the current channel information to the mobile device at the time the user changes the channel. By determining the channel information the mobile device can provide information to the server necessary to synchronize the mobile feed with the video feed.

The mobile feed controls the synchronization of the video feed with the information that the mobile device retrieves. Sometimes the mobile feed can provide ancillary information to augment or complement the video feed. The content creation software also provides tools to embed in the mobile feed hot icons to indicate interactivity. It also has a module to create the links and to build the tags and information that are staged on the server and will be viewed on either the mobile device or other end user device.

The server stages the mobile feed and the embedded links The content creator uses available software to create both the mobile feed and the embedded information which the user accesses when the user tags the content. The mobile feed may be text a picture or even full video.

The source of the video feed and the source of the mobile feed can be located in one place or in two different places

An example of a user interface that could be provided to a user of a mobile device is illustrated in . During a television show the PDA may display images or information that relate directly or indirectly to what is being shown on the television program.

The user can bookmark or flag i.e. tag pieces of information that come from the mobile feed as he sees them on the PDA. Items that are bookmarked or flagged can be retrieved later from the server at a time convenient to the user.

For example if the user sees a short clip of a program such as a baseball game on the television he can indicate through the PDA interface that he wishes to bookmark the program. Later he can retrieve additional information about the program from the server.

In general the invention enables a user to work with a second parallel synchronized source of information and interaction while watching a television show to identify items of interest that are displayed on the PDA and to later retrieve or take some other action with respect to the items of interest.

On a different banner is shown and the user again has the opportunity to bookmark the item by pressing the down arrow.

On the next screen an icon associated with the banner that appeared on is shown in the bottom half of the screen indicating that the user has bookmarked this item.

On the user has pressed the nine button icon in the upper left corner indicating a desire to enter information on a numeric keypad and the buttons of the icon have turned black.

In and the keyboard is scrolled from left to right onto the screen. In and the user has pressed 043 to change the channel to CNN Headline Sports. The information is sent to the Internet server which then changes the program material that is being transmitted to the user s television. The banner for that program is then displayed on the top of the screen.

In the user sees a banner for the NASCAR Brickyard 400 program and has the opportunity to press a large down arrow to bookmark it or to press a small down arrow that is labeled ticker.

In the banner has changed to the Senior Burnet Classic in accordance with a short item being shown at the same time on the television. As before the user has the chance to add this to his bookmarked set at the bottom half of the screen.

In the Major League Baseball scores are shown. In the user has highlighted the score of the Brewers Dodgers game and added it to the bookmarked items.

In the user is shown information about the Brickyard 400 race including the three leading contenders. The user is given the chance to view the race or scores or to buy stuff

By pressing on the lower left hand picture the user is shown an enlarged image on together with a text caption.

The ticker arrow allows the user to scroll through an entire sequence of different short clips just as for example the television may broadcast a series of short clips of baseball games. Because the Internet server has personalization information about the user on the server the ticker can be altered to suit the user s tastes so that when he presses the ticker arrow he sees a sequence of short clips that are interest to him.

Any icon that has been generated as a result of bookmarking can be invoked at any time by the user by simply pressing that icon. Then the Internet server will serve images video or information related to that icon.

