---

title: Package shipping system and method, including usage of historical analytic data
abstract: Embodiments provide methods, apparatus, systems, and computer-readable media associated with using historic analytic data to identify shipping options for a user to use when shipping a package. Historic analytic data may be received and maintained by a package shipment facilitation system. The analytics may then be used to generate business rules which may be applied to parameters for a package that is to be shipped. Through application of the business rules, one or more preferred shipping options may be identified. Business rules may be received after being manually-generated by a user, or may be automatically generated based at least in part on the maintained historic analytics. After a shipping option is chosen for the package, a shipping label may be printed for the package, and the package may be entered into a carrier's system for processing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08150781&OS=08150781&RS=08150781
owner: Enroute Systems Corporation
number: 08150781
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100917
---
With the advance of the Internet and ecommerce businesses and individuals increasingly utilize carriers to ship packages they produce. Businesses and individuals may ship numerous packages each day and may ship these packages to different destinations or under different constraints. For example businesses and individuals may need to ship packages overnight or by a specific time ship to international destinations ship via ground transportation such as for dangerous materials require signature at delivery ship to difficult or untested destination addresses ship refrigerated or hazardous materials and other requirements.

Numerous shipping options exist for these businesses and or individuals to utilize for shipping their packages. Businesses and individuals may choose from numerous regionally or nationally based package and letter carriers. These individual carriers offer varying rates of service based on destination material transportation requirements and time requirements. With all of these competing options it can be difficult for a business more specifically an employee of the business or an individual to choose a shipping option which best or close to best supports a particular or a group of shipping needs.

In existing systems users are merely able to poll carriers to determine proposed shipping costs and proposed time in transit for a package. Beyond that these systems seldom provide users with additional useful information for the user to determine the best shipping option. A user knowing only the proposed cost of a particular shipping option may be unsure about whether additional unposted costs may present themselves during shipment. For example if a package is not delivered on time or in the right condition e.g. melted damaged the carrier may be forced to refund money to the package s recipient. In another example a particular destination may present challenges such as tacked on carrier surcharges for recipients who are frequently not at home or difficult to find. These costs may not be adequately represented in a carrier s posted fees to aid the user in carefully choosing the carrier for their packages.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented herein. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the Figures can be arranged substituted combined separated and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components or elements contained within or connected with different other components or elements. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely examples and that in fact many other architectures may be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality may be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated may also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated may also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Various aspects of the subject matter described herein are described using terms commonly employed by those skilled in the art to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. However it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that alternate implementations may be practiced with only some of the described aspects. For purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the illustrative examples. However it should be apparent to one skilled in the art that alternate embodiments may be practiced without the specific details. In other instances well known features are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the illustrative embodiments.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art may translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and e etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and e together Band e together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together Band C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent. Also embodiments may have fewer operations than described. A description of multiple discrete operations should not be construed to imply that all operations are necessary. Also embodiments may have fewer operations than described. A description of multiple discrete operations should not be construed to imply that all operations are necessary.

The disclosure is drawn inter alia to techniques methods apparatuses systems articles of manufacture and computer readable media related to facilitating shipping of packages using historic analytical shipping data.

Described embodiments include techniques methods apparatuses systems articles of manufacture and non transitory tangible computer readable media which may be associated with using shipping business rules which may identify shipping options for a business or other user to use when shipping a package. In various embodiments historic analytic data or analytics may be received and maintained by a package shipment facilitation system. In some embodiments these analytics may be received for the particular location of a business or for selected or all locations of a business in some embodiments the analytics may be received for multiple businesses. The analytics may then be used in various embodiments to generate business rules for a location of a business or for selected or all locations of a business. These business rules may be applied to parameters for a package that is to be shipped. Through application of the business rules one or more preferred shipping options may be identified. In various embodiments business rules may be received after being manually generated by a user. In various embodiments the business rules may be received and or generated based at least in part on the stored historic analytics. After a shipping option is chosen for the package a shipping label may be printed for the package and the package may be entered into a carrier s system for processing.

Through the use of historic analytics potential savings can be identified. In various embodiments these savings may include improved efficiency reduced costs and enhanced quality and security of package and freight delivery. Through the use of these analytics and identification of shipping options benefits to the business may be obtained other than those directly represented by a carrier s posted cost.

In various embodiments the package shipment facilitation system may also interact with one or more carriers illustrated in as carriers . In various embodiments these carriers may comprise local regional and or nationally based shipping companies. In various embodiments the package shipment facilitation system may interact with the carriers through known techniques such as through application programming interfaces provided by one or more of the carriers . In other embodiments the package shipment facilitation system may communicate with the carriers through web or other telecommunications interfaces. In various embodiments the package shipment facilitation system communicates with the carriers to acquire information about shipping options including transportation options offered by carriers e.g. ground or air time frames for shipments insurance options etc. In various embodiments tracking price and or cost information may also be obtained by the package shipment facilitation system from the carriers . In this way historical shipping analytic data may be obtained from the carriers in order to facilitate package shipping as described herein. In other embodiments the package shipment facilitation system may communicate with the carriers to send package information and begin shipments.

In various embodiments the package shipment facilitation system may comprise one or more modules such as software hardware and or firmware modules to perform various shipping facilitation operations for the package shipment facilitation system . In various embodiments the modules may interact with the user and or with carriers 

For example in various embodiments the package shipment facilitation system may comprise an analytic data entry module . In various embodiments the analytic data entry module may provide for one or more users to input historic analytic data about past shipments. In another embodiment the analytic data entry module may be configured to request and receive historic analytic data from the carriers . In various embodiments the analytic data entry module after receiving the historic analytic data may store the historic analytic data in the analytic history storage . In various embodiments the analytic history storage may comprise various storage devices and or software storage modules including for example a database and one or more hard drive and or solid state storage devices. In various embodiments the historic analytic data may be displayed to a user using the illustrated analytics display module .

In various embodiments the package shipment facilitation system also comprises a business rules storage which stores one or more business rules. In various embodiments the business rules stored in the business rules storage may be applied to parameters for a package to be shipped in order to identify one or more preferred shipping options which may be used for that package. The business rules application module may be used in various embodiments to perform application of one or more of the business rules to the parameters to identify the one or more preferred shipping options. Various embodiments of the parameters for a package may include for example destination address time frame delivery time and or transportation type. In various embodiments the parameters for a package may be entered by the user through an interface facilitated by the illustrated parameter entry module .

As will be described below in various embodiments the business rules may be received directly from the user such as by the user creating one or more business rules manually using the business rules generation module . In other embodiments the business rules generation module may automatically generate one or more business rules as will be described herein. In various embodiments the business rules generation module may also allow the user to prioritize and or edit previously entered business rules.

After identification of one or more preferred shipping options the package shipment facilitation system may through its shipment label generation module generate one or more shipping labels for a package. This shipping label may in some embodiments be printed on a shipping label printer such as a printer attached to a computer of the user .

At operation the package shipment facilitation system may receive business rules. In various embodiments these business rules may be particular to the user or a location of a business shipping the package and or may be generated or received based on other users and or other locations of the business and or other businesses or dynamically by data mining and extraction techniques on existing data. In various embodiments operation may be performed in whole or in part by the business rules generation module . In various embodiments business rules may be received prior to receiving either analytic data or parameters for a particular package. Particular details of operation are described below.

At operation the package shipment facilitation system may apply the received business rules to the parameters received at operation to identify one or more preferred shipping options. In various embodiments the application may be performed through operation of the business rules application module . Particular details of operation are described below. At operation the package shipment facilitation system may start a shipment of the package based on one of the identified shipping options. In various embodiments the package shipment facilitation system may print out a shipping label for the user send package information to a carrier and or begin financial transactions to start the shipment. The process may then end.

In various embodiments the analytics may be preferred by a user or the user s business to be higher or lower depending on the type of analytic being considered. Thus in some embodiments the business rules generation module may operate to increase those analytics for which a higher value is desired by a user or business such as on time percentage. In other embodiments the business rules generation module may operate to decrease those analytics for which a lower value is desired by the user or business such as cost or distance travelled. In various embodiments at operation the business rules generation module may receive one or more indications of whether higher or lower values are desired for the one or more received analytics. In other embodiments the business rules generation module may be configured to recognize one or more of the analytics and to recognize for those analytics whether higher or lower values are desired.

At operation the business rules generation module determines for an analytic if a higher value is desired by a user or business. If not then at operation the business rules generation module may seek out and set a shipping option for the business rule being generated which produces lower values for that analytic than other shipping options. If however a higher value is desired at operation the business rules generation module may seek out and set a shipping option for the business rule being generated which produces higher values. In various embodiments the business rules generation module may seek out a shipping option by simulating shipping using one or more of the business rule inputs based on the historic analytical data stored in analytic history storage . In various embodiments various shipping options may be simulated and compared to each other to perform the selection of operations and . Then at operation the business rules generation module identifies the output shipping option which in simulation produced the most desired analytic outcome. At operation the business rules generation module may store the generated business rule. In one embodiment the business rules generation module may store the generated business rule by storing the rule in a business rules database in the business rules storage . The process may then end.

At operation a loop may be begun starting with the first rule in the list. At operation the business rules application module may determine if the currently considered rule can be applied to the parameters received for the package. In one embodiment these parameters are received at operation of . In various embodiments the business rules application module may determine if the rule can be applied by matching the business rule inputs identified in the rule to the parameters for the package being shipped. If the rule applies then at operation the rule may be applied and the output shipping options are added to a list of preferred options for the user. In one embodiment not illustrated once a rule is applied the process may stop and the shipping option may be presented to the user. However in alternative embodiments such as the one illustrated at operation the loop may be continued for the next business rule in the sorted list. Then at operation the list created by successive applications of operation may be shown to the user . The user may then select a shipping option and may start shipment of the package such as at operation . The process of may then end.

The techniques and apparatuses described herein may be implemented into a system using suitable hardware and or software to configure as desired. illustrates for one embodiment an example system comprising one or more processor s system control logic coupled to at least one of the processor s system memory coupled to system control logic non volatile memory NVM storage coupled to system control logic and one or more communications interface s coupled to system control logic .

System control logic for one embodiment may include any suitable interface controllers to provide for any suitable interface to at least one of the processor s and or to any suitable device or component in communication with system control logic .

System control logic for one embodiment may include one or more memory controller s to provide an interface to system memory . System memory may be used to load and store data and or instructions for example for system . System memory for one embodiment may include any suitable volatile memory such as suitable dynamic random access memory DRAM for example.

System control logic for one embodiment may include one or more input output I O controller s to provide an interface to NVM storage and communications interface s .

NVM storage may be used to store data and or instructions for example. NVM storage may include any suitable non volatile memory and or non transitory computer readable media such as flash memory for example and or may include any suitable non volatile storage device s such as one or more hard disk drive s HDD s one or more solid state drive s one or more compact disc CD drive s and or one or more digital versatile disc DVD drive s for example.

The NVM storage may include a storage resource physically part of a device on which the system is installed or it may be accessible by but not necessarily a part of the device. For example the NVM storage may be accessed over a network via the communications interface s .

System memory and NVM storage may include in particular temporal and persistent copies of logic . Logic may be configured to enable system in response to operation of the logic to practice some or all aspects of the package shipment facilitation techniques described earlier. In various embodiments logic may be implemented via programming instructions of any one of a number of programming languages including but not limited to C C C HTML XML and so forth.

Communications interface s may provide an interface for system to communicate over one or more network s and or with any other suitable device. Communications interface s may include any suitable hardware and or firmware. Communications interface s for one embodiment may include for example a network adapter a wireless network adapter a telephone modem and or a wireless modem. For wireless communications communications interface s for one embodiment may use one or more antenna s .

For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controller s of system control logic . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be packaged together with logic for one or more controllers of system control logic to form a System in Package SiP . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control logic . For one embodiment at least one of the processor s may be integrated on the same die with logic for one or more controller s of system control logic to form a System on Chip SoC .

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein for purposes of description of the preferred embodiment it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope of the disclosure. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments of the disclosure may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This disclosure is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments of the disclosure be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

