---

title: Traffic visualization across web maps
abstract: A web traffic visualization system includes a generation module configured to generate a web map. The web map includes web objects and links connecting the web objects, where the web objects are for a web site. The web traffic visualization system also includes an acceptance module configured to assign a unique ID to a visitor of the web site and receive a visitor action performed by the visitor on a web object in the web site tagged with the unique ID. The web traffic visualization system is further configured to include a visualization module configured to generate and display the visitor action on the web map in response to receiving the visitor action tagged with the unique ID.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08453059&OS=08453059&RS=08453059
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 08453059
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100810
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 238 354 filed on Aug. 31 2009 and entitled Traffic Visualization Across Web Maps which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Conventional web servers track visits to their web sites. For example a web server may track statistics such as number of visitors page views user sessions etc. of a web site it hosts. A web site owner may desire to view these statistics and other statistics to determine how their web site is being used and to determine whether visitors are accessing web pages or objects on web pages. For example for an on line shopping web site the web site owner may desire to know whether a particular landing page is driving visitors to make purchases or access certain product information. Based on this information the web site owner may try to modify the web site to increase sales.

Conventional programs tracking these statistics however typically do not present the statistics in a manner that makes the information easy to understand and also do not allow the web site owner or administrator to quickly realize what visitors are actually doing on the web site. Typically the statistics are captured in a log file and the log file is accessed to present the statistics as values or possibly in a bar graph or some other chart format. When presented in this manner it is difficult to determine how visitors are navigating through a web site and whether the visitors are performing actions desired by the web site owner based on their navigation throughout the web site.

According to an embodiment a web traffic visualization system includes a generation module an acceptance module and a visualization module. The generation module is configured to generate a web map including web objects and links connecting the web objects wherein the web objects are for a web site. The acceptance module is configured to assign a unique ID to a visitor of the web site and receive a visitor action performed by the visitor on a web object in the web site tagged with the unique ID. The visualization module is configured to generate and display the visitor action on the web map in response to receiving the visitor action tagged with the unique ID.

According to another embodiment a method for generating a visualization of web traffic information for a web site comprises generating by a computer system a web map including web objects and links connecting the web objects wherein the web objects are for a web site. The method also includes assigning a unique ID to a visitor of the web site receiving a visitor action performed by the visitor on a web object in the web site tagged with the unique ID and generating the visitor action on the web map in response to receiving the visitor action tagged with the unique ID. The method also includes displaying the visitor action on the web. The method may be embodied in a computer program stored on a non transitory computer readable medium. The program may be executed by a computer system to perform the method.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the embodiments are described by referring mainly to examples thereof. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without limitation to these specific details. In some instances well known methods and structures have not been described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the embodiments. Furthermore different embodiments are described below. The embodiments may be used or performed together in different combinations.

According to an embodiment a web map visualization system is configured to provide a real time visualization of web traffic for a web site. Information is captured for visitor actions performed when navigating through a web site. The captured visitor actions are sent to a web server for example as they are captured and a visualization of the captured actions is generated. The visualization is provided on a web map of the web site and provides a fast and easy means to quickly identify visitor actions performed on the web site and how web traffic is flowing through the web site. Also the visualization may be generated as the visitor actions are captured and the visualization is dynamic in that the displayed information is varied as the visitor actions vary to provide a visualization of web traffic flow on the web site as the web traffic flows. The visualization may include an animated visualization to show the flowing of the web traffic and the visitor actions.

As described above according to an embodiment a visualization of web traffic is provided on a web map. One embodiment for generating the web map is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 428 705 entitled Web Map Tool which was granted on Sep. 23 2008 and which is incorporated by reference in its entirety and is described below.

A web map is a representation of one or more web sites or parts thereof. A web map can be created by scanning one or more web sites examining web objects encountered on the one or more websites and recording a linking structure associated with the web objects. Examples of the web objects include any document that may exist on the one or more web sites. This includes but is not limited to plain text hypertext images audio video and other multimedia objects executable applications and database information. The web objects may be static files or database entries residing on a machine hosting the one or more web sites or the web objects may be dynamically generated by the one or more web sites as needed.

Each web object may be represented in a web map by a node which can be an icon symbol shape or text in the representation. Often the node is labeled with a filename a title or a URL of the associated web object.

The nodes representing the web objects are connected by links. One or more links between a pair of web objects can be represented in a web map by an edge which is drawn as a line between the associated nodes. Typically an arrowhead is placed on the line to indicate the direction of the link from the object containing the link called the source of the link to the object referenced by the link a URL called the destination of the link . If there are links running in both directions between a pair of the web objects the corresponding edge may have arrowheads on both ends. A directory distance between the pair of web objects is given by the length of the shortest path between the pair of web objects in the directory structure of the web site. For example www.abc.com and ftp.abc.com would be in the same virtual directory namely .abc.com and .com is a common grandparent directory. A link distance between two web objects is the length of the shortest path between the two objects in the linking structure e.g. web map of the web site.

Information in the web map may be totally or partially generated in a web mapping system by interrogating a web site to obtain data describing web objects and links and attributes of the web objects and links. Alternatively web site information may be provided by a third party computer program which is responsible for collecting page and link information relating to one or more web sites and then either sending the information to web maps generated according to the present invention or allowing the web maps to have on demand access to the information through an application programming interface. Examples of a third party program include spreadsheet software graphics software a spider based site crawler that uses the HTTP protocol to gather web site information including page and link information a FTP site crawler that uses the FTP protocol to gather web site information or a disk scanner that connects to a web site directly using direct disk access either locally or through a network.

An example of a web map is shown in . The web map includes nodes connected by links . Nodes and are web pages in a web site and node is a web object that is clicked to make a software purchase.

The web site also includes embedded scripts for each of the web objects individually or for a group of the web objects . The scripts for example may be JavaScripts encoded in the web site . The scripts may be used to capture and send web traffic information from the web site to a server such as the web server or another server. The web traffic information may include a visitor action performed on the web objects on the web site . A visitor action may include but is not limited to going to a URL of a web page clicking on a web object on a web page and any other visitor actions that may be performed and statistics that are known to be captured.

The scripts embedded in the web site may instruct the web traffic visualization system on the web server hosting the web site to store the web traffic information for a new visitor in a web traffic information database DB . For example a script for a home page may create a unique ID for a new visitor and the unique ID is stored in the web traffic information DB . The script for the home page may instruct the web traffic visualization system to capture web traffic information such as metrics on the URL that the visitor came from to the home page and to store the web traffic information in the web traffic information DB with the corresponding visitor s unique ID. For example a new visitor to the web site clicks on hypertext for products one of the web objects and the visitor is taken to a products web page. An embedded script for the hypertext web object instructs the web traffic visualization system to store information regarding the fact that the hypertext has been clicked by the visitor and the visitor is now navigating to the products web page. This information is tagged with the unique ID and sent to the web traffic visualization system for storage.

An acceptance module of the web traffic visualization system receives the unique ID of the new visitor and the web traffic information associated with the unique ID transmitted from the web site by the script. The acceptance module stores the web traffic information with the corresponding unique ID in the web traffic information DB . As discussed above the web traffic information may include a visitor action performed on one of the web objects or a group of the web objects when navigating through the web site .

A generation module generates a web map for the web site if a web map has not been generated for the web site already. The web map may be generated according to the process described in the in the Web Map Tool U.S. Pat. No. 7 428 705 as discussed above. A web map is a representation of one or more web sites or parts thereof including the web objects in the web site and the linking structure associated with the web objects . The web map may be stored in a web map database DB .

A visualization module generates a visualization of the web traffic information on the web map for each visitor. A visualization of web traffic information on a web map includes a visualization of the captured visitor actions associated with a unique ID. For example once visitor is identified by the acceptance module the web traffic information is stored in the web traffic information DB . The web traffic information is also plotted on the web map in addition to being stored. The web traffic information is plotted by matching the web object that the visitor action was performed on from the web traffic information to a web object of the web map. Once the matching web object is found on the web map an icon or other symbol is generated on the web map to indicate that the visitor performed the visitor action at the web object. The web map is then displayed.

According to an embodiment information may be displayed using differentiating symbols or designs to distinguish different categories of visitors. For example as a new visitor is identified as performing an action on a website a determination is made by the visualization module as to whether the visitor belongs to a predetermined category which may be based on a visitor profile or other information gathered on the visitor stored in the web traffic information DB . If the visitor belongs to a particular category the visitor is assigned the symbol of the category and the visitor s actions are displayed on the web map with that symbol. Each of multiple categories is given a distinct symbol. Then by viewing the visualization a quick determination can be made as to the actions of all the visitors in each category. Each visitor may be represented by a symbol but some of the symbols may be the same if they represent visitors in the same category.

In one embodiment the visitors actions for a particular category are aggregated and then displayed. For example if a majority of the visitors for a category follow a particular path then a single symbol is shown for all the visitors in that category and that symbol is shown as following the path. In another embodiment multiple symbols may be shown for the same category. However each symbol is representative of multiple visitors performing the same or similar actions. For example if 35 of the visitors falling in the category of males over 40 years of age perform the same actions and 40 of the visitors in the same category perform another set of actions each set is displayed with their own symbol. The symbols may be the same or the symbols may be slightly different but recognizable as representing the same category but different aggregated actions in the same category. Also in yet another embodiment each visitor may be represented by a different symbol.

As shown in more traffic goes directly from node to node rather than from node to nodes and and then to node . Thus if the web site owner desires visitors to view the software products at node the web site owner may remove the direct path from node to .

Based on the real time visualization generated by the web map server different actions may be taken. For example a volume of traffic can be seen as it progresses through different paths. Bottlenecks can be identified and corrected which may reduce response times of the web server and improve the visitors experiences. The web site may be reconfigured to correct bottlenecks or to drive visitors to different web objects not currently receiving enough hits.

At step the web traffic visualization system receives a unique ID of a new visitor and web traffic information associated with the unique ID transmitted from a web site by a script embedded in a web site. The web traffic visualization system stores the web traffic information with the corresponding unique ID in a web traffic information database. As discussed above the web traffic information may include a visitor action performed on a web object when navigating through the web site. The visitor action may include but is not limited to going to a URL of a web page clicking on a web object on a web page and any other conventional statistics that are known to be captured.

At step the web traffic visualization system determined if a web map for the web site has been generated. If a web map has been generated the process proceeds to step . At step the generated web map is retrieved from a web page database and the process proceeds to step .

At step if it is determined the web traffic visualization system has not generated a web map for the web site the process proceeds to step . At step the web traffic visualization system generates a web map for the web site. The web map may be generated as described in the in the Web Map Tool U.S. Pat. No. 7 428 705 as discussed above. A web map is a representation of one or more web sites or parts thereof including web objects in the web site and a linking structure associated with the web objects. The web map may be stored in the web map database. The process than proceeds to step .

At step the web traffic visualization system generates a visualization of the web traffic information on the web map. A visualization of the web traffic information on the web map includes a visualization of the captured visitor action associated with the unique ID of the visitor. For example once visitor is identified the web traffic information is stored in the web traffic information database. The web traffic information is also plotted on the web map in addition to being stored. The web traffic information is plotted by matching the web object that the visitor action was performed on from the web traffic information to a web object of the web map. Once the matching web object is found on the web map an icon or other symbol is generated on the web map to indicate that the visitor performed the visitor action at the web object. The web map is then displayed.

Other symbols or graphics may be used to represent various web traffic information. According to an embodiment information may be displayed using differentiating symbols or designs to distinguish different categories of visitors. For example as a new visitor is identified as performing an action on a web site and a determination is made as to whether the visitor belongs to a predetermined category which may be based on a visitor profile or other information gathered on the visitor. If the visitor belongs to a particular category the visitor is assigned the symbol of the category and the visitor s actions are displayed on the web map with that symbol. Each of multiple categories is given a distinct symbol. Then by viewing the visualization a quick determination can be made as to the actions of all the visitors in each category. Each visitor may be represented by a symbol but some of the symbols may be the same if they represent visitors in the same category.

In one embodiment the visitors actions for a particular category are aggregated and then displayed. For example if a majority of the visitors for a category follow a particular path then a single symbol is shown for all the visitors in that category and that symbol is shown as following the path. In another embodiment multiple symbols may be shown for the same category. However each symbol is representative of multiple visitors performing the same or similar actions. Also in yet another embodiment each visitor may be represented by a different symbol.

Scripts are provided for each web object and this process is repeated for each visitor action of each visitor so the web map server can generate a real time visualization of web traffic for each visitor simultaneously.

The computer system includes a processor or processing circuitry that may implement or execute software instructions performing some or all of the methods functions and other steps described herein. Commands and data from the processor are communicated over a communication bus . The computer system also includes a non transitory computer readable medium such as storage device which may be random access memory RAM where the software and data for processor may reside during runtime. The storage device may also include non volatile data storage. The computer system may include a network interface for connecting to a network. It will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that other known electronic components may be added or substituted in the computer system .

While the embodiments have been described with reference to examples those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claimed embodiments. Also the embodiments described herein may be used to map other types of activity on a web site or map user activity in a software program.

