---

title: Warhead comprised of encapsulated green fragments of varied size and shape
abstract: A fragmentation warhead includes a cylindrical body, and an explosive charge disposed within the innermost part of the warhead body. Upon detonation of the explosive charge, the warhead body is ultimately caused to shear and break into fragments with controlled sizes, shapes. Metallurgical composition of the warhead body can be used to influence the size of fragments ultimately generated when the warhead breaks apart through detonation, since the size and positioning of fragments in the warhead body is preselected. Fabrication of explosive fragmentation ammunition with preformed fragment tungsten alloy fragmenting shells of complex shapes and small and medium calibers is provided in this invention. According to an embodiment of this invention, fabrication begins with “green” tungsten alloy fragment pellets of a given, full strength, enwrapped in a green lower strength matrix alloy. The product is said to be green because tungsten is largely used to replace other metals such as lead which may be considered more toxic. Next, in the process is pressing to the approximate shape desired of the bulk of the green fragments and matrix mix. This is ultimately followed up with sintering. According to an embodiment of this invention, the sintering process will ultimately result in full strength preformed fragments of tungsten alloy enwrapped in a low strength matrix of tungsten alloy, sized to a desired shell shape and thickness.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08176849&OS=08176849&RS=08176849
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08176849
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100324
---
This application claims benefit under 35USC119 e of the filing date Aug. 21 2009 of previously filed Provisional Application No. 61 235 722 the entire file contents of which are incorporated by reference herein as though fully set forth.

The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

Warhead fragmentation effectiveness is determined by the number mass shape and velocity of the warhead s fragments. By using a controlled fragmentation design warhead fragmentation can generally be achieved quickly and in a cost effective manner. Exemplary controlled fragmentation techniques are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 491 694 4 312 274 4 745 864 5 131 329 and 5 337 673.

Conventional designs in general use include cutter liners that form fragments by generating a complex pattern of high velocity penetrators for fragmenting the shell. Although these conventional fragmentation designs have proven to be useful it would be desirable to present additional functional cost and safety improvements that minimize the warhead weight reduce manufacture expenses and advance current United States green and insensitive munition requirements.

What is therefore needed is a convenient less expensive fragmentation technique to selectively generate multiple fragment size fragment numbers and patterns.

The present invention satisfies these needs and presents a munition or warhead such as part of a projectile made with novel metallurgical configurations which can be used for generating diverse fragmentation patterns. Larger size fragments are selected for more heavily armored targets while smaller size fragments can be used for lightly armored or soft targets. According to the present invention warhead fragmentation is achieved more efficiently and more cost effectively than conventional techniques through the use of a warhead comprised of tungsten alloy fragments of various sizes and shapes the fragments are joined into a single piece which is also shaped into a desired warhead form. The alloy includes metals such as copper and nickel alloyed to the tungsten. Fabrication of explosive fragmentation ammunition with preformed fragment tungsten alloy fragmenting shells of complex shapes and small and medium calibers is provided in this invention. According to an embodiment of this invention fabrication begins with green tungsten alloy fragment pellets of typically grain to 2 grain size typically spherical or cubic in shape then enwrapped in a tungsten alloy of a lower ksi strength made more amenable to be physically pressed mashed in shape such as by adding oils to the tungsten alloy mixture used for encapsulating the pellets . The product is said to be green because tungsten is largely used to replace other metals such as lead which may be considered more toxic. Next in the process is pressing to the approximate shape desired of the bulk of the encapsulated green fragments and formed in a matrix. This is ultimately followed up with sintering to harden it to a final form. According to an embodiment of this invention the sintering process will ultimately result in full strength preformed fragments of tungsten alloy enwrapped in a low strength matrix of tungsten alloy sized to a desired shell shape and thickness. During explosion of the warhead detonation shock waves propagated at the enclosed fragment locations generate contours of localized transitional regions with high gradients of pressures velocities strains and strain rates acting as stress and strain concentration factors. As a result the explosion produces a complex pattern of shear planes in the warhead body causing shell break up and release of fragments with predetermined sizes. This invention is therefore distinguishable from existing fragmentation liner technologies that attempt to score or cut the warhead body.

One of the advantages of the present embodiment compared to existing technologies is the cost effectiveness of the manufacturing process of the present design in that it is faster and more economical to fabricate as opposed to notching or cutting a steel warhead body itself. The more green tungsten material chosen is less toxic and thus more consistent with current green goals and requirements for minimizing toxicity.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide means for generating fragments upon detonation of a warhead with a relatively less expensive to manufacture structure of enclosed tungsten alloy fragments and 

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation warhead which generates fragments upon detonation wherein the size and shape of such fragments may be selected through metallurgical design of the warhead material and 

It is a yet another object of the present invention to provide a fragmentation warhead of materials additionally chosen for green value i.e. less toxicity.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention and in light of the following drawings in which 

The body encloses a multiplicity of encapsulated tungsten alloy fragments in of select sizes and shapes and green is used in the sense of using less toxic tungsten as material rather than for instance a more toxic lead material. A selectively controlled pattern of fragments can comprise sections of equal size or alternatively sections ranging in size from relatively large to smaller fragments. The larger size of the fragments is selected for more heavily armored targets while the smaller size of fragments is applicable for lightly armored or soft targets. Consequently the pattern efficiently enables variable target lethality of the warhead that can range from maximum lethality for more heavily armored targets to a maximum lethality for lightly armored or soft targets. Shapes of individual fragments can be widely varied spheres ellipsoids cylinders pyramids cubes parallelepipeds curved external shapes shards diamond shaped or truncated versions of any of the above for instance . Size of individual fragments and orientation of the fragments turned such as 90 degrees from one another e.g. can all be individually selected to advantage in designing the ultimate warhead fragments. shows how a particle could be encapsulated in a shell . shows how a large quantity of particles might be arranged in a pattern all encapsulated in a matrix to form a warhead body . Here green tungsten alloy pellets are individually encapsulated in a green matrix tungsten alloy shell such as are arranged then pressed together into a desired shape matrix . Then the assembled matrix is sintered.

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

