---

title: Systems and methods for facilitating a commerce transaction over a distribution network
abstract: Embodiments of the invention include systems and methods for facilitating a commerce transaction over a distribution network. According to one embodiment, a method for facilitating a purchase transaction over a distribution network is provided. The method may include transmitting advertisement content associated with at least one product or service to a viewer device associated with a viewer, wherein the advertisement content presents at least one commerce command. The method may further include receiving a selection of the at least one commerce command selected by the viewer and transmitting at least one message to initiate a commerce transaction for the at least one product or service with a marketplace system responsive to receiving the selection of the at least one commerce command.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08577399&OS=08577399&RS=08577399
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08577399
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100615
---
Aspects of the invention relate generally to distribution networks and more particularly to systems and methods that facilitate a commerce transaction over a distribution network.

Content distribution networks also referred to interchangeably herein as distribution networks such as cable satellite and Internet Protocol IP networks provide a variety of programming content and likely the largest source of advertisement spending. As media capabilities increase viewers interactivity with their televisions and set top boxes increases. For example with the advent of digital cable non linear programming such as on demand content digital video recorders DVRs and interactive programming guide menus additional viewer interaction with the television is required to view the desired content.

Similarly mobile telecommunications has experienced a rampant increase in the use of wireless phones e.g. cellular phones and other mobile devices for much more than just traditional voice calls. For example wireless phones are frequently used for web browsing tracking email playing music and videos taking pictures and text messaging with other mobile devices.

In addition online purchases and other transactions over the Internet continue to increase in popularity. For many conducting a transaction over the Internet has become the norm rather than an exception.

Accordingly there exists a need to facilitate the initiation and or completion of a commerce transaction using a distribution network. In addition there exists a further need to facilitate commerce transactions through a combination of distribution network and wireless network messaging.

Some or all of the above needs and or problems may be addressed by certain embodiments of the invention. Embodiments of the invention may include systems and methods for facilitating a commerce transaction over a distribution network. According to one embodiment a method for facilitating a purchase transaction over a distribution network is provided. The method may include transmitting advertisement content associated with at least one product or service to a viewer device associated with a viewer wherein the advertisement content presents at least one commerce command. The method may further include receiving a selection of the at least one commerce command selected by the viewer and transmitting at least one message to initiate a commerce transaction for the at least one product or service with a marketplace system responsive to receiving the selection of the at least one commerce command.

According to another embodiment a system for facilitating a purchase transaction over a distribution network is provided. The system may include a network operator system with at least one memory storing computer executable instructions and at least one processor operable to execute the computer executable instructions. The network operator system may include a distribution network server in communication with a viewer device associated with a viewer over a distribution network and an interactive shopping server. The at least one processor is operable to transmit over the distribution network to the viewer device advertisement content associated with at least one product or service wherein the advertisement content presents at least one commerce command receive a selection of at least one commerce command selected by the viewer and transmit at least one message to initiate a commerce transaction for at least one product or service with a marketplace system responsive to receiving the selection of at least one commerce command.

Additional systems methods apparatus features and aspects may be realized through the techniques of various embodiments of the invention. Other embodiments and aspects of the invention are described in detail herein with reference to the description and to the drawings and are considered a part of the claimed invention.

Embodiments of the invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which embodiments of the invention are shown. This invention may however be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Embodiments described herein include systems and methods for facilitating a commerce transaction over a content distribution network such as over a cable broadcast network a satellite broadcast network or an IP network. A commerce transaction may include any transaction with a marketplace such as but not limited to a purchase of a product or service a request for information related to a product or service an addition of a product or service to a my favorites feature a wish list feature or any other designation for subsequent reference a reminder related to a product or service or any combination thereof. Initiating a commerce transaction may be the result of advertisement content provided over the distribution network or otherwise coordinated in part by the distribution network. Accordingly a distribution network operator and associated system or systems can facilitate a commerce transaction by presenting and explaining to the viewer the ability while viewing regular programming to interact with the network operator system to conduct a commerce transaction. The commerce transaction may be with an Internet based marketplace e.g. an online or web based retailer offering the sale of products or services over the Internet or with any other type of marketplace such as but not limited to a traditional bricks and mortar retailer a mail based retailer and the like.

According to one embodiment the viewer may interact with the network operator system via text messaging using a mobile device e.g. a mobile phone a smart phone a pager a media player etc. over a wireless network. In another embodiment the viewer may interact with the network operator system over the distribution network such as via upstream messaging sent from a viewer device e.g. a set top box a television etc. over the distribution network to the network system. In this embodiment the upstream messaging is generated at the viewer device in response to the user s selection from a menu or other indication using the viewer device and or a remote control. In other embodiments any combination of wireless communications e.g. text messaging and upstream messaging may be used to interact with the network operator system to facilitate the commerce transaction or transactions requested by the viewer.

Accordingly as a result of receiving the communication from the viewer whether it be via a wireless network or a distribution network the network operator system may process the received communication to initiate the commerce transaction or transactions requested by the viewer. In one embodiment the network operator system may transact directly with the desired marketplace on behalf of the viewer after receiving the viewer communication. In other embodiments the network operator system may provide the viewer with the information for the viewer to initiate the transaction with the marketplace such as by transmitting a hyperlink to a marketplace webpage via a text message to the viewer s mobile device. Thus when receiving the information from the network operator the viewer can initiate and or complete the commerce transaction with the marketplace. For example a hyperlink transmitted to the viewer may be to a shopping cart or checkout function generated and maintained by the marketplace system. In one embodiment the uniform resource locator URL underlying the hyperlink can contain a product or service identifier as well as an indication of the desired transaction e.g. purchase such that when selecting the hyperlink the webpage displayed can be used to initiate the commerce transaction and may optionally be automatically populated with information specific to the transaction. In another embodiment the network operator system can initiate the transaction directly with the marketplace e.g. via web applets application programming interfaces etc. and the hyperlink merely provides a link to the viewer s account shopping cart checkout screen etc. so the viewer can follow up on the transaction as desired.

More details regarding the various means for implementing the embodiments of the invention are provided below with reference to .

An example system will now be described illustratively with respect to . The system may include one or more network operators and associated network operator systems one or more content providers and associated content provider systems one or more marketplaces and associated marketplace systems one or more wireless networks one or more distribution networks and one or more other networks e.g. the Internet wide area network local area network private network public network etc. . In addition the system includes one or more viewer systems in communication with one or more of the network operator systems the wireless network and or the marketplace system . Each of the aforementioned systems or system components is configured for accessing and reading associated computer readable media having data stored thereon and or computer executable instructions for implementing the various methods described herein. By executing computer executable instructions each of these computer systems may form a special purpose computer or a particular machine. As used herein the term computer readable medium may describe any form of computer memory or memory device.

With reference to the viewer system one or more viewer devices may optionally be provided such as a set top box a television or other display such as a personal computer and display in an IP network or a projector and screen etc. or a remote control device . As used herein the term viewer device refers generally to any one or a combination of set top boxes televisions other displays or any other device operable and configured to present linear and or non linear e.g. on demand content to a viewer.

A set top box may be any suitable device configured to connect to a television or other display and an external source of a signal over a distribution network . For example the set top box may be a cable set top box a gateway device a combination modem and set top device a digital satellite set top box or an Internet protocol television IPTV set top box operatively configured to communicate with a corresponding network operator system e.g. a cable network operator a satellite network operator an over the top IP network content distributor operator etc. over a corresponding distribution network and to convert the received signals into signals capable of displaying audio video content by a television or other display to a viewer. In one embodiment the set top box is adapted to connect to and communicate with a television or other display as well as to receive command signals from one or more remote control devices which may be a conventional remote control device or any other user device programmed and operable for communicating directly or via an intervening device with the set top box such as wirelessly e.g. infrared Bluetooth radio frequency etc. .

The set top box may be a multipurpose computing device having one or more processors memories and input output I O interfaces in communication. The set top box may also include a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog audio video signaling to a television or other viewer devices an operating system and a tuner operable for processing audio video and or data with the network operator system . The set top box may pass digital and analog audio video content and or data to a television that is received from the distribution network via an audio video and or data downlink e.g. an in band downlink or an out of band downlink respectively . In addition the set top box may pass data e.g. commerce command selections etc. to the network operator system over the distribution network via an up link. The set top box may include computer executable instructions that provide programming to facilitate the display of content instructions and special features and to facilitate the receiving and processing of viewer commands issued via a remote control device for example. Example programming includes but is not limited to facilitating the display of advertisement content overlays special instructions and the like which may be used to present commerce commands and product or service information to the viewer and facilitating the receipt of a viewer s selections of one or more commerce commands associated with a product or service for transmission to the network operator system via the distribution network e.g. via an up link .

In other embodiments a set top box may not be provided such as where another viewer device is used e.g. a television adapted for direct communication with a distribution network or a personal computer and display adapted for communication over a distribution network such as an IP network . It is appreciated that the aforementioned examples of viewer devices and network adaptability are provided for illustrative purposes only and that any other distribution network viewer device may be used with the system .

In addition the viewer system may further include one or more mobile devices operable for communication over one or more wireless networks . A mobile device may be any device operable for wireless communications and or for other wireless communication means e.g. Wi Fi Internet communications WiMAX network communications and the like such as but not limited to a mobile phone a pager device a smart phone a personal audio player a personal device assistant a personal computer a laptop computer or any other suitable portable device operable for wireless communications. To facilitate communications between a viewer s mobile device and the network operator system the network operator system may store an association between the viewer and the viewer s mobile device such as but not limited to a phone number a unique identifier or a combination thereof. Similarly the marketplace system may also store an association between the viewer and the viewer s mobile device or any other unique viewer identifier also maintained by the network operator system such as but not limited to an association between the viewer s marketplace account and a phone number a unique identifier or a combination thereof. Further details of example methods for associating viewers mobile devices with their respective accounts at the network operators and the marketplaces are provided below.

Similarly the viewer system may further include one or more computers or other network access devices operable to access the Internet such as by broadband dial up wireless or other communication means. The computer may be utilized to view advertisement content provided by or on behalf of the network operator system over the Internet and or to complete a commerce command with a marketplace system . In one embodiment advertisement content provided over the Internet may present one or more commerce commands which a viewer can transmit to initiate a commerce transaction. In another embodiment advertisement content provided over the Internet may allow accessing over the Internet from the computer the corresponding marketplace system the network operator system and or any other third party system offering the product or service associated with the commerce command presented. For example in one embodiment the advertisement content displayed over the Internet and viewed by the computer may be for provisioning or requesting additional services associated with the content distribution network e.g. adding channels adding set top boxes adding Internet capabilities etc. . The marketplace systems network operator system and or third party systems may be configured to recognize viewers i.e. Internet users using the computer over the Internet based on stored cookies or certificates based on IP addresses based on user login information and the like.

The network operator system illustrated in represents any system or systems comprising one or more computers or other processor based devices for implementing various functions provided by the respective network operator. It is appreciated that a network operator system may represent a multiple system operator MSO or other distribution network operator and may logically include operations performed in part by the network plant the headend and or any other component or device of a conventional network operator system. Accordingly the network operator system may include one or more processor driven devices such as but not limited to a server computer a personal computer and the like. In addition to having one or more processors the network operator system may also further include one or more memories one or more input output I O interfaces and one or more network interfaces . The memory may store data files and various program modules such as an operating system OS a client and or host module and a database management system DBMS for accessing one or more databases such as one or more data storage devices . The data storage devices may be operative for storing viewer account information interactive shopping information billing information and or other information accessible by the network operator system . The I O interface s may facilitate communication between the processor and various I O devices such as a keyboard mouse printer microphone speaker monitor and the like. The network interface s may take any of a number of forms such as but not limited to a network interface card a modem a wireless network card and the like. In one embodiment network interfaces may include network system hardware software and or firmware operable to provide content and other data transmission through the distribution network such as over an in band and an out of band media channel with a viewer device e.g. a set top box and or television the wireless network such as between the text message server and a viewer s mobile device the Internet or any other public or private network such as between the interactive shopping server and a marketplace system or over any other data channel.

The network operator system may include a text message server an interactive shopping server and a distribution network server . The text message server the interactive shopping server and the distribution network server are represented in as separate components however it is appreciated that these components may represent logical functions implemented by a single physical device or may be provided at least in part by one or more separate physical devices. The text message server may include computer executable instructions providing programming to send and to receive text messages e.g. short message service SMS text messages etc. to and from a viewer s mobile device over one or more wireless networks and to initiate the processing associated therewith. The interactive shopping server may include computer executable instructions providing programming to send and receive messaging with one or more marketplace systems such as over the Internet utilizing a serial or other private circuit or via any other suitable public or private network. Messaging transmitted between the interactive shopping server and the marketplace systems may be initiated responsive to receiving text message commands from a viewer s mobile device at the text message server over a wireless network or responsive to receiving upstream messaging from a viewer device e.g. a set top box etc. over the distribution network . The distribution network server may include computer executable instructions providing programming for distributing audio video content e.g. linear broadcast programming and or non linear programming such as on demand content over the distribution network to a viewer system e.g. to a set top box etc. which may be responsive to a viewer s selection or other request therefor. It is appreciated that the distribution network server and or another component of the network operator system is operable to perform other conventional media content distribution functions not specifically described herein. Moreover the distribution network server and the network operator system may be configured for distributing media over other distribution networks other than cable networks such as but not limited to a satellite broadcast network or an IP network according to various example embodiments. Each of the text message server the interactive shopping server and the distribution network server are operable to send and to receive data to and from the data storage device when performing one or more of the respective functions.

In addition the network operator system can further be operable to provide one or more webpages web portals or other network accessible sites that provide the ability to present advertisement content and or commerce commands to a viewer over the Internet or coordinate advertisement content and or commerce commands with a marketplace system or other third party system for access by a viewer and to initiate and conduct a commerce transaction with the network operator system e.g. for provisioning services setting reminders etc. or with a marketplace system or other third party system.

The marketplace system may be associated with any marketplace such as but not limited to an Internet based marketplace e.g. an online or web based retailer offering the sale of goods or products over the Internet a traditional bricks and mortar retailer or service provider a mail based retailer or service provider and the like. Accordingly the marketplace system may be any multipurpose computing device having one or more processors memories and I O interfaces in communication. In one embodiment in which the marketplace system provides an online or web based marketplace the marketplace system may include or otherwise be associated with one or more web servers providing one or more websites over the Internet or other public or private network. In one embodiment the marketplace system makes available web applets application programming interfaces APIs or other integration programming to receive commands from the interactive shopping server of the network operator system when initiating a commerce transaction on behalf of a viewer. These web applets application programming interfaces APIs or other integration programming may be universally called by any system or may be programmed specifically for an integration between a specific network operator system and the marketplace system . In addition the marketplace system may further include one or more data storage devices e.g. memory databases etc. operable to store consumer information transaction information billing information transaction history product information service information and the like.

The distribution network may include any number of telecommunication and or data networks whether public private or a combination thereof including one or more conventional broadband distribution networks such as a fiber optic network a telephone network an existing cable television broadcast network e.g. fiber network coaxial network a hybrid fiber coaxial network etc. a satellite broadcast network an IP network and the like which are operable to support transmission according to various media content and transmission protocols e.g. MPEG 2 ISO 13818 1 etc. . The distribution network may support downstream upstream and or bi directional communications. The Internet may be the public Internet or may otherwise refer to a local area network a wide area network a publicly switched telephone network PSTN an intranet intermediate handheld data transfer devices and or any combination thereof and may be wired and or wireless. The wireless network may be any wireless network protocol operable for wireless communications operating under any cellular or other wireless network protocol e.g. GSM CDMA TDMA etc. . In addition the wireless network may provide wireless access to the Internet . The wireless network the distribution network and the Internet may also allow for real time off line and or batch transactions to be transmitted thereover. Due to network connectivity various methodologies described herein may be practiced in the context of distributed computing environments. Although the system is shown for simplicity as including one intervening distribution network wireless network and Internet it is to be understood that any other network configuration is possible which may optionally include a plurality of networks each with devices such as gateways and routers for providing connectivity between or among networks.

Although not described or illustrated in detail each content provider system and each marketplace system may be configured in the same or similar manner as described for the network operator system . In addition the system shown in and described with respect to is provided by way of example only. Numerous other operating environments system architectures and device configurations are possible. Accordingly embodiments of the invention should not be construed as being limited to any particular operating environment system architecture or device configuration.

In response to viewing the advertisement content the viewer may send a first viewer generated text message also referred to herein as a viewer text message using a mobile device over the wireless network to the network operator system e.g. to the text message server that includes text corresponding to one or more of the commerce commands indicated by the advertisement content. For example the viewer may transmit a first viewer text message that includes in the body the description of the product or service desired. The first viewer text message may be addressed to a number associated with a desired commerce command. The network operator system receives and processes the first viewer text message to determine the next steps to be performed to facilitate the viewer s desired commerce transaction. In one embodiment text messages are at least initially transmitted to the network operator system so the network operator can subsequently control the steps of the transaction including tracking the transactions for collecting fees for its service. In other embodiments however other means may be provided for identifying that a commerce transaction was initiated as a result of a network operator if not initially sent to the network operator system . The other means include but are not limited to telephone numbers specific to the network based advertisements specific alpha numeric codes that are included in the body of a viewer text message and the like.

In one embodiment in response to the viewer text message a network generated text message may optionally be transmitted from the network operator system over the wireless network to the viewer s mobile device to confirm and or to provide additional information to the viewer. In response to the network text message a second viewer text message is transmitted from the viewer s mobile device to the network operator system to confirm the commerce transaction to provide additional details regarding the commerce transaction and or to provide additional commerce commands. For example the body of the second viewer text message may include a confirmation a viewer s passcode the selection of a more specific commerce command the selection of more specific product information e.g. size color quantity etc. and the like. This example may be particularly useful if the first viewer text message transmitted is a request for more information or if the system is programmed to require confirmation by a viewer before initiating a transaction such as for security purposes to confirm the identity of the viewer. In other embodiments however the first network text message and the second viewer text message thereto may not be transmitted instead the operations may proceed to send a hyperlink to a marketplace webpage in a text message to the viewer s mobile device after the first viewer text message is transmitted.

After receiving the second viewer text message if transmitted the network operator system proceeds to generate and transmit another network text message to the viewer s mobile device that contains one or more hyperlinks with underlying URLs to one or more marketplace webpages corresponding to the transaction requested by the viewer. Upon receiving this second network text message the viewer can select the hyperlink e.g. by clicking using an interface of a web enabled mobile device or by using a second web enabled computer system etc. to initiate a session over the Internet via a wireless network with the corresponding marketplace webpage to permit the viewer to initiate and or to complete the desired commerce transaction.

In one example embodiment upon receiving the viewer s final commerce command via at least the first or second viewer text message the network operator system such as via the interactive shopping server may generate and transmit messaging with the marketplace system to at least initiate the viewer s desired commerce transaction. For example the network operator system may transmit messaging to initiate a purchase transaction on behalf of the viewer which may result in the product or service being placed in the viewer s purchased items list shopping cart list or checkout screen or the network operator system may transmit messaging to add the product or service to a viewer s favorites list. Any other commerce commands may be processed in a similar manner. According to one embodiment the network operator system such as in a data storage device may store an association between the viewer the viewer s mobile device number or other identifier and or the viewer s marketplace account identifier or other marketplace identifier such as username email address etc. . Thus when transmitting the messaging to the marketplace system the messaging may identify the viewer so the marketplace operations can initiate the desired commerce transaction processing on behalf of the viewer and so the viewer can upon navigating to the marketplace website and logging in immediately review and complete the commerce transaction.

Though in other embodiments the network operator system may not transmit messaging to initiate the commerce transaction. Instead the network operator system may configure the URL underlying the hyperlink transmitted as part of the final network text message to enable navigation to the most relevant webpage of the marketplace website e.g. navigate to the product or service webpage navigate to a request for information page etc. .

Accordingly upon the viewer initiating the session with the marketplace webpage the viewer can complete the desired transaction. According to one embodiment the hyperlink provided by the network operator system in the final network text message may include identifying information or other characteristics that permit the marketplace system to determine that the commerce transaction is initiated as a direct result of the network operator system operations. By accrediting the network operator system with enabling the viewer to conduct the commerce transaction the network operator system may collect fees or attain any other benefit that may be arranged between the marketplace and the network operator for facilitating the commerce transaction. Thus the more the network operator system is able to direct commerce transactions with marketplaces by its viewers the more pecuniary or other benefits the network operator may realize. Additional messaging between the marketplace system and the network operator system may be provided for logging tracking and accounting for transactions initiated and or completed as a result of the network operator system s facilitation.

The block diagram of illustrates the example embodiment in which only a single viewer text message and network text message response are exchanged between the network operator system and the viewer s mobile device to facilitate the viewer to initiate and complete a commerce transaction with a marketplace system . According to this embodiment after viewing the media content and at least some advertisement content as described above with reference to the viewer generates and transmits a viewer text message using a mobile device over a wireless network . The viewer text message identifies one or more products or services and indicates one or more commerce commands desired by the viewer also as described with reference to . In response the network operator system can optionally generate and transmit messaging with the marketplace system to initiate the commerce transaction indicated by the viewer text message . The network operator system then also transmits at least one network text message to the viewer s mobile device over the wireless network wireless network wireless network that contains at least one hyperlink to enable the viewer to begin a website session with the marketplace to complete the commerce transaction.

The block diagram of illustrates a different embodiment in which the viewer provides a selection of one or more commerce commands via upstream messaging over the distribution network instead of via text messaging described in the examples illustrated by . According to this embodiment the network operator system transmits media content that includes special programming that enables the selection of one or more commerce commands by a viewer. The programming may be added to the content stream such as by one or more APIs e.g. enhanced TV binary interchange format EBIF etc. that the viewer device e.g. the set top box is programmed to process. For example according to this embodiment the network operator system e.g. the distribution network server may combine the content stream with an overlay that presents product or service information like an advertisement and corresponding commerce commands via the viewer device after being processed thereby. In response to viewing the overlay the viewer may indicate a desired response using a remote control device interacting with the viewer device. Any number of means for presenting options to a viewer and allowing selection thereof may be provided such as but not limited to menu presentation graphic presentation textual presentation and the like. For example in one embodiment the overlay may accompany or provide an advertisement of the product or service and present options associated with each available commerce command e.g. Buy Favorites Wish List More Information Reminder etc. . Using navigation features on the remote control device e.g. navigate the on screen menu to highlight the desired selection or enter a number letter etc. corresponding to the desired selection the viewer can select a commerce command. Upon selection the viewer device e.g. programming in the set top box or the television will process the viewer s selection and transmit one or more upstream messages e.g. using EBIF protocol etc. over the distribution network to the network operator system to indicate the viewer s selected commerce command. illustrates an example display which includes an advertisement and an overlay with instructions for selecting one or more commerce commands presented by a menu e.g. selecting A B or C with a remote control device .

In response to receiving the upstream message the network operator system may process the upstream message such as by programming provided by the distribution network server to identify the viewer s desired product or service and the corresponding commerce command or commands. Once identified the network operator system may proceed as described with reference to or B. For example in the embodiment illustrated in after receiving and processing the upstream message the network operator system generates and transmits a network text message over a wireless network to the viewer s mobile device to confirm and or to provide additional information to the viewer. In response a second viewer text message is transmitted from the viewer s mobile device to the network operator system to confirm and or provide additional details regarding the commerce transaction as described with reference to .

In this embodiment after receiving the second viewer text message the network operator system can optionally generate and transmit messaging with the marketplace system to initiate the commerce transaction indicated by the upstream message and or the second viewer text message . The network operator system then also transmits at least one network text message to the viewer s mobile device over the wireless network that contains at least one hyperlink to enable the viewer to begin a website session with the marketplace to complete the commerce transaction also as described with reference to . Upon receiving this network text message the viewer can select e.g. by clicking using an interface of a web enabled mobile device or by using a second web enabled computer system etc. the hyperlink transmitted to initiate a session over the Internet via a wireless network with the corresponding marketplace webpage to permit the viewer to initiate and or to complete the desired commerce transaction.

Otherwise in the embodiment illustrated by the block diagram of after transmitting the upstream message the network operator system only transmits a single network text message response to the viewer s mobile device to facilitate the viewer to initiate and complete a commerce transaction with a marketplace system similar to that described with reference to . According to this embodiment the upstream message identifies one or more products or services and indicates one or more commerce commands desired by the viewer. In response the network operator system can optionally generate and transmit messaging with the marketplace system to initiate the commerce transaction indicated by the upstream message . The network operator system then also transmits at least one network text message to the viewer s mobile device over the wireless network that contains at least one hyperlink to enable the viewer to begin a website session with the marketplace to complete the commerce transaction.

Accordingly as indicated by the example block diagrams of respectively a viewer may communicate with a network operator system using text messaging over a wireless network or using upstream messaging from a viewer device e.g. set top box over the distribution network . In response the network operator system may proceed to initiate the commerce transaction with a marketplace system on behalf of the viewer or provide via a hyperlink means for the viewer to access the marketplace system website for initiation and or completion of the commerce transaction. The amount of transaction processing conducted by the network operator system with the marketplace system on behalf of the viewer can vary as desired. In some embodiments there may be significant value realized e.g. likelihood of completing a sale etc. by limiting the amount of transaction steps required by the viewer. Thus the network operator system may desire to perform more processing and simply provide a single hyperlink or other means for confirmation of the transaction by the viewer that when selected would complete the commerce transaction with little additional effort on the part of the viewer. Though in other circumstances it may be that the cost of additional processing required by the network operator system with the marketplace system outweighs any benefit accrued by an increase in transaction completion rates such as if the integration is too difficult or costly or if it causes too much processing overhead etc. Thus in these circumstances it may be that only minimal transaction messaging is performed between the network operator system and the marketplace system such as by only performing post transaction logging accounting or by only identifying the viewer product etc. and requiring the viewer to perform additional operations to complete the transaction directly with the marketplace system over a website etc.

It is appreciated that the above described data flows are provided for illustrative purposes are not intended to be limiting and that other operations may be performed to facilitate a commerce transaction for or on behalf of a viewer. For example in one variation a viewer may contact a marketplace over a voice call and provide it with one or more codes or other unique identifiers provided by the network operator system to complete the transaction as desired. In another variation the viewer may not access the marketplace system using the mobile device on which a network text message was received from the network operator system . Instead another device may be used e.g. a personal computer a different mobile device an IP television etc. . Moreover in one embodiment the network operator system may not provide a network text message to a viewer s mobile device to complete the transaction. Instead the network operator system may have previously arranged for permission account access and or payment information to allow the network operator system to complete the transaction entirely on behalf of the viewer upon the viewer s initial request with commerce commands. Additional variations will be apparent in light of the following flow diagrams describing in detail example operations.

The method may begin at block in which advertisement content is generated to describe a product or service offered as well as to include instructions to a viewer on how to purchase the product or conduct any other commerce transaction as described above e.g. a purchase transaction a my favorites transaction a wish list transaction a request for more information a request for a reminder etc. . These actions or transactions may be referred to herein generally as commerce commands or commerce transactions and may include any number of transaction types desired. According to one embodiment the advertisement content is for broadcasting over a distribution network such as the distribution network described with reference to . Advertisement content may include but is not limited to a traditional commercial or other advertisement segment broadcast linearly with regular broadcast programming an advertisement overlay broadcast for display on top of or concurrently with regular broadcast programming e.g. an overlay accompanying a commercial for the product or service or an overlay accompanying other programming or it may be an on demand asset stored at or otherwise associated with the network operator and accessible in non linear fashion. Moreover in other embodiments the advertisement content may be presented to a viewer by means other than over the distribution network such as but not limited to paper based advertising e.g. magazines newspapers fliers mailers etc. billboard sign or poster advertising radio advertising electronic advertising e.g. email Internet wireless cellular etc. and the like. Regardless of its method of presentation the advertisement content is intended to describe to consumers a unique means to purchase a product or conduct any other commerce transaction that is facilitated by the network operator system either by exchanging text messages over a wireless network and or by sending upstream messages over a distribution network such as is described above with reference to .

Following block is block in which advertisement content is transmitted over the distribution network to a viewer device such as but not limited to a set top box or a television according to one embodiment. The advertisement content may be transmitted as part of linear broadcasting or non linear broadcasting e.g. responsive to a request for an on demand asset . The advertisement content describes a product or service and gives instructions to a viewer on how to purchase the product or conduct any other commerce transaction. For example as described above with reference to in one embodiment the advertisement content can include instructions on how to generate a viewer text message indicating one or more commerce commands. In another embodiment the advertisement content can include a menu or other selection means that a viewer can select by interacting with the viewer device e.g. using a remote control device such as may be generated via an advertisement overlay. Moreover as described above in other embodiments block need not be performed if advertisement content is not transmitted over the distribution network but presented via another traditional advertising channel.

Block follows block . At block the viewer indicates the desired commerce command or commands. In one embodiment the viewer indicates the desired commerce command or commands via a viewer text message sent from the viewer s mobile device over the wireless network to the network operator system such as is described with reference to . For example the body of the text message may identify the product the commerce command or both and the text message may be addressed to a particular number associated with the offer provided via the advertisement content. illustrates an example display to which a viewer would respond in this embodiment.

In another embodiment the viewer indicates the desired commerce command or commands via an upstream message transmitted from the viewer device e.g. a set top box over the distribution network to the network operator system such as is described with reference to . For example the viewer may use a remote control device to navigate a menu or options displayed with the advertisement content to select the desired commerce command. In response the viewer device processes the viewer selection e.g. using programming instructions contained thereon to generate and transmit one or more upstream messages e.g. an EBIF message etc. indicating the viewer s selection. Additional details of each of these embodiments are described with reference to .

Accordingly the network operator system receives the viewer s selected commerce command or commands e.g. via the text message server if a text message is sent over the wireless network or via the distribution network server if an upstream message is transmitted over the distribution network . Upon receipt of the viewer s selected commerce command the network operator system processes the message to determine the associated product to determine the desired commerce command or commands and to identify the viewer. The network operator system may include one or more tables or other stored information such as in a data storage device to facilitate making these determinations. For example stored information may include but is not limited to product service identifiers product service names product service descriptions product service prices marketplace identifiers marketplace names marketplace information marketplace contact information e.g. website addresses web applet identifiers etc. marketplace agreements viewer identifiers e.g. distribution network account number marketplace account number mobile device number mobile device identifier wireless service provider identifier set top box identifier username password email address etc. viewer information viewer agreements viewer permissions commerce commands telephone numbers or other termination identifiers which may be used to uniquely identify products commerce commands etc. depending upon which number a viewer text message is received etc. and the like. Thus the network operator system can use any combination of the aforementioned information or any other information needed to process the received selection of commerce commands for identifying the product or service the selected commerce command and the viewer transmitting the message.

As part of the processing it may be determined whether one or more additional messages are to be transmitted to the viewer at decision block . For example in certain data flows the network operator system may send additional messaging to the viewer such as but not limited to for confirmation of the transaction to present additional commerce command options to receive additional viewer information to receive additional product or service information and the like. Example data flows associated with exchanging additional messages are described with reference to messages of . Whether additional messaging is to be transmitted to the viewer may in some embodiments depend upon an arrangement with the marketplace e.g. if the marketplace requires confirmation from the viewer if the marketplace requires the viewer to complete the transaction personally etc. the agreement or permissions provided by the viewer e.g. the viewer requires confirmation for any initiated transactions etc. the number of options associated with the commerce transaction that are available the complexity of the programming and the like.

If it is determined at decision block that additional messaging is to be transmitted to the viewer then blocks follow. Otherwise operations continue to block . At block one or more additional messages are transmitted from the network operator system to the viewer. In the embodiment illustrated in the messages are embodied as network text messages transmitted over the wireless network to the viewer s mobile device . However in other embodiments the messages may be transmitted via the distribution network by downstream and or upstream messages exchanged with the viewer device e.g. the set top box or over the Internet e.g. via email or a webpage . The content of the additional network messages may vary as desired.

If a response to the message transmitted at block is required the viewer may respond to the additional network message at block . For example in one embodiment the viewer s response transmitted at block may indicate confirmation of the transaction by the viewer. In another embodiment the viewer s response may indicate a more specific selection of a commerce command or the selection of an additional commerce command than what was indicated by the viewer s initial selection at block . In yet another embodiment the viewer s response may indicate additional details regarding the commerce transaction such as but not limited to quantity desired size desired color desired transaction timing and the like. Again in one embodiment the response may be via a viewer text message transmitted to the network operator system over the wireless network though in other embodiments other messaging over other networks may be used.

Following block is block . At block upon receipt of the viewer s response at block or after determining that no additional messaging was required at decision block the network operator system processes the message to determine the content of the viewer s response and the impact it has on the transaction in a manner similar to that described with reference to block . Based on the processing and the viewer s selection the network operator system may initiate or complete the commerce transaction with the marketplace modify the commerce transaction parameters or cancel the commerce transaction e.g. if requested by the viewer or if no response is received . The following blocks describe in detail various example operations for processing the commerce transaction with the marketplace.

Following block is decision block in which it is determined whether the network operator system is to initiate and or complete the commerce transaction with the marketplace system directly on behalf of the viewer or if the network operator system is merely to provide information to the viewer to enable the viewer to complete the desired commerce transaction. As described above with reference to in one embodiment the network operator system may at least initiate if not complete the commerce transaction directly with the marketplace system on behalf of the viewer. In another embodiment the network operator system may only perform minimal processing directly with the marketplace system or none at all and instead transmit additional messaging e.g. hyperlinks applets etc. to the viewer for initiating and or completing the transaction directly with the marketplace system . It is appreciated that in some embodiments a combination of these two approaches may be implemented such that the network operator system begins the transaction with the marketplace system but then transmits information to the viewer for the viewer to complete the transaction directly with the marketplace system .

If it is determined at decision block that the network operator system is to at least begin the commerce transaction with the marketplace system then blocks are performed. At blocks the network operator system such as via the interactive shopping server exchanges messages with the marketplace system to begin the commerce transaction. Otherwise if it is determined at decision block that the network operator system is to permit the viewer to initiate and or complete the commerce transaction directly with the marketplace system operations continue to block .

For the operations by which the network operator system at least initiates commerce transaction processing directly with the marketplace system at decision block it is determined based on processing the received viewer s selection whether the commerce command is a purchase command. If so then block follows in which the network operator system exchanges one or more messages with the marketplace system to initiate a purchase command. The messaging generated by the network operator system may use an existing integration interface such as but not limited to web applets or APIs made available by the marketplace system. Thus if using existing integration interfaces the content and structure of the messaging may be dictated by the existing integration interfaces. Otherwise integration messaging unique to this implementation may be provided for integration between the network operator system and the marketplace system . Furthermore it is appreciated that messaging format and or content may differ for different marketplace systems and or different network operator systems . Example content provided in the messaging at block may include but is not limited to an identification of the viewer e.g. a network account number a telephone number a marketplace account number an email address a username etc. payment information e.g. credit card number etc. billing address information shipping address information an identification of the product or service e.g. name unique identifier SKU etc. an identification of the offer e.g. a unique campaign or advertisement identifier etc. and the desired commerce command or commands e.g. purchase or place in shopping cart in this instance . The messaging may be transmitted over a secure connection and or as an encrypted or otherwise secured message to protect the content.

In one embodiment a purchase transaction may mean that the network operator system is to initiate and complete the purchase transaction on behalf of the viewer. This may occur for example if the network operator system has obtained permission from the viewer to complete the transaction which may be specific to the instant commerce transaction or may be a broader permission provided by the viewer for more than the instant transaction. A purchase transaction may be completed utilizing payment billing and shipping information maintained by the marketplace system for the viewer e.g. if the viewer already has an account with the marketplace system or utilizing payment billing and shipping information provided by the network operator system .

In another embodiment a purchase transaction may be conducted by the network operator system by instructing the marketplace system to place the product or service in the viewer s shopping cart or any other suitable association that indicates that the selected product or service is ready for completion of the purchase transaction. In this embodiment the viewer may subsequently access the marketplace system e.g. via a website telephone in person etc. to complete the purchase transaction.

According to various embodiments for any commerce transaction the marketplace system may store one or more unique identifiers in association with a viewer s marketplace account to enable identification of the viewer from the messaging received from the network operator system . For example the marketplace system may store a telephone number an email address an account number or any other unique identifier that is known by both the marketplace and the network operator. In other embodiments the network operator system may instead or additionally store an identifier already maintained by the marketplace system such as a marketplace account username email address and the like for inclusion in messaging transmitted by the network operator system to the marketplace system to identify the viewer.

After blocks decision block follows in which it is determined based on processing the received viewer s selection whether the commerce command is a favorites command. If so then block follows in which the network operator system exchanges one or more messages with the marketplace system to initiate the favorites command. According to one embodiment a favorites command may allow placing the advertised product or service in a favorites list associated with the viewer. A favorites list would allow the viewer to subsequently recall the favorites list while also enabling the marketplace system to personalize marketing based on the viewer s expressly indicated favorites. In one embodiment instead of or in addition to exchanging messaging with the marketplace system at block the network operator system may create and store a favorites association between viewer and the product or service such as in the data storage device . A favorites list maintained by the network operator system may likewise allow the network operator system to personalize advertising marketing or other media broadcast functions based on the viewer s expressly indicated favorites.

After blocks decision block follows in which it is determined based on processing the received viewer s selection whether the commerce command is a wish list command. If so then block follows in which the network operator system exchanges one or more messages with the marketplace system to initiate the wish list command. A wish list commerce command may be processed in the same or similar manner as the favorites commerce command described with reference to blocks . In one embodiment a wish list may be used by the marketplace system to permit the viewer and or other system users to subsequently identify products or services expressly indicated by the viewer as desired. Like the favorites list the wish list may further be used to personalize advertising and other marketing by the marketplace system and optionally the network operator system if it maintains a wish list.

After blocks decision block follows in which it is determined based on processing the received viewer s selection whether the commerce command is a request for more information. If so then block follows in which the network operator system exchanges one or more messages with the marketplace system to initiate the request for more information regarding the product or service advertised. According to one embodiment the marketplace system may respond to the request for more information directly with the viewer e.g. text message email written correspondence telephone call etc. . In another embodiment the marketplace system may respond to the network operator system with the requested additional information thus enabling the network operator system to provide the additional information requested to the viewer e.g. over the wireless network the Internet and or over the distribution network etc. . In yet another embodiment instead of exchanging messages with the marketplace system at block the network operator system may retrieve locally stored or otherwise accessible product or service information and transmit the additional requested information to the viewer e.g. over the wireless network the Internet and or over the distribution network etc. .

After blocks decision block follows in which it is determined based on processing the received viewer s selection whether the commerce command is a request for a reminder. If so then block follows in which the network operator system schedules a reminder internally and or with the marketplace system . A reminder may be used for any number of purposes. For example in one embodiment a reminder commerce command transmitted from a viewer may include a date and or time to initiate the reminder. In other embodiments the reminder may simply be another list of items identified as reminders or may include a default reminder time. In one example at the time of the reminder it is expected that at least information about or otherwise identifying the advertised product or service is presented to the viewer. In one embodiment the reminder may be sent by the network operator system by a network text message over the wireless network . In another embodiment the reminder may be transmitted by the network operator system over the distribution network such as to the viewer s set top box for display either at the time transmitted or at a later time. For example the reminder may be scheduled by the network operator system and sent at a predetermined time for immediate display to the viewer or the reminder may be sent by the network operator system to the viewer device which will subsequently process the reminder to determine the time to display to the viewer. In yet another embodiment the network operator system may exchange messages with the marketplace system in the same or similar manner as described for the other commerce commands enabling the marketplace system to transmit a reminder directly to the viewer e.g. text message email written correspondence telephone call etc. .

After blocks decision block follows in which it is determined based on processing the received viewer s selection whether any other commerce commands are requested which are subsequently processed at block in the same or similar manner as one or more of the previously described commerce commands. It is appreciated that the aforementioned commerce commands are provided for illustrative purposes and that any other desired commands associated with the advertised product or service may be initiated and or completed by the method . Example commerce transactions may include but are not limited to ordering a pay per view movie or other video on demand asset adding a service to an existing or new service e.g. adding a distribution network channel adding a telephone line adding broadband Internet service etc. automatic or customer initiated provisioning of services request or otherwise obtain a free offering or promotion e.g. a coupon a coupon code a ticket etc. setting reminders and setting favorites on the same or different network setting and the like. For instance in some of the aforementioned additional example commerce transactions the marketplace and marketplace system may not necessarily refer to a retailer but may include or otherwise refer to entities and or systems associated with but not limited to a service provider e.g. network channel content provider a different network operator system a marketing entity a third party service provider and the like.

After block is block in which the network operator system may optionally transmit a follow up text message to the viewer s mobile device over the wireless network to provide the viewer easier access to the commerce transaction or transactions initiated and or completed in any of blocks according to one embodiment as described with reference to . For example a network text message may include one or more hyperlinks to a website operated by the marketplace. In other embodiments a follow up message may be transmitted over the distribution network to a viewer device e.g. the set top box the television etc. or over the Internet e.g. an email etc. . The follow up text message may be used to permit the viewer to interact directly with the marketplace system such as but not limited to confirming the commerce transaction reviewing the commerce transaction adjusting the commerce transaction finalizing the commerce transaction completing the commerce transaction providing additional information e.g. payment quantity size color billing information shipping information etc. rejecting the commerce transaction or any combination thereof.

After block operations continue to block in which confirmation messaging is exchanged between the network operator system and the marketplace system for commerce transactions initiated and or completed by this method. The confirmation messaging may enable the network operator system to report to the marketplace system the commerce transactions at least initiated by its operations so the marketplace system can provide the network operator system with updated statuses for commerce transactions e.g. completed rejected paid etc. to exchange accounting information and the like. The operations performed at block may be useful to facilitate the network operator system in maintaining records and accounting of transactions it initiated or otherwise facilitated such as when the network operator is able to collect a fee on transactions initiated completed etc. After block for transactions that are at least initiated by the network operator system with the marketplace system as determined at decision block the method may end.

However for the operations in which the network operator system is not able to initiate the commerce transaction directly with the marketplace system as determined at decision block the above operations of blocks are not performed instead blocks are performed. At block the network operator system transmits a network text message to the viewer s mobile device with one or more hyperlinks to a website operated by the marketplace according to one embodiment. In one embodiment the URL underlying a hyperlink can be configured to identify the viewer s account the product or service the desired transaction or any combination thereof. Therefore when selecting the hyperlink at block the viewer is automatically navigated to a marketplace webpage pertinent to the requested commerce transaction. For example if the commerce transaction requested by the viewer is a request for more information the URL may direct the viewer to a webpage displaying product information for the product or service. In another example if the commerce transaction requested is a purchase transaction the URL may direct the viewer to a shopping cart or checkout page with instructions e.g. calling an available web applet etc. that populate the desired product or service in the shopping cart etc. Any amount of information may be transmitted by a URL according to various examples including but not limited to login credentials product or service information account information and the like. In addition according to one embodiment the URL may further include an identifier of the network operator system such as an alphanumeric string previously associated with the network operator system by the marketplace system that will permit the marketplace system to log that the commerce transaction was initiated as a result of the network operator system . As discussed identifying commerce transactions that were initiated or otherwise facilitated by the network operator system will enable accounting for and collecting fees for the services provided.

According to another embodiment instead of transmitting a network text message at block the network operator system may instead or additionally transmit a message over the Internet e.g. via email via a website etc. to the viewer that includes a hyperlink or other access means to the marketplace system . Moreover according to one embodiment the message transmitted at block may not include a hyperlink but may instead include a telephone number for the viewer to call for completing the commerce transaction or an address for the viewer to complete the commerce transaction by written correspondence. In yet another example the message transmitted at block may be transmitted to the viewer over the distribution network to the viewer device e.g. the set top box instead of or in addition to a network text message sent over the wireless network . In this embodiment the viewer device may facilitate accessing the marketplace system based on information provided over the distribution network such as but not limited to accessing by a personal computer in communication with the viewer device accessing by an IP television etc.

After accessing the marketplace system e.g. a webpage at block and performing the desired action with the marketplace such as but not limited to confirming rejecting adjusting and the like operations continue to block . At block confirmation messaging may be exchanged between the network operator system and the marketplace system as described above.

The method may end after block having enabled a viewer to complete a commerce transaction with a marketplace by messaging exchanged between the viewer the network operator system and the marketplace system.

Accordingly the example systems and methods described herein provide for a network operator system to facilitate its viewers to conduct a commerce transaction with a marketplace. These systems and methods leverage the common desire for instant gratification and the general reluctance to exert the additional effort otherwise required to purchase a product. In addition the increased popularity of and enthusiasm for text messaging using wireless phones and other mobile devices creates another purchase channel use of which can be encouraged by distribution network operators. By providing a means to initiate and complete a purchase or other commerce transaction while viewing television these systems and methods will have the effect of increasing the sale and completion rate. Moreover retailers and advertisers will be able to leverage the distribution network operators inherent knowledge of viewers tendencies and interests coupled with the well categorized media content subject matter to better target advertisements and offers to consumers. Thus distribution network operators can encourage increased sales for marketplaces by facilitating the transactions as described herein while also realizing an additional revenue stream from the marketplace for transactions the network facilitates. It is appreciated that these and other advantages will be apparent from the foregoing disclosure.

Various block and or flow diagrams of systems methods apparatus and or computer program products according to example embodiments are described above. It will be understood that one or more blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams respectively can be implemented by computer executable program instructions. Likewise some blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams may not necessarily need to be performed in the order presented or may not necessarily need to be performed at all according to some embodiments.

These computer executable program instructions may be loaded onto a special purpose computer or other particular machine a processor or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a particular machine such that the instructions that execute on the computer processor or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means that implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. As an example embodiments of the invention may provide for a computer program product comprising a computer usable medium having a computer readable program code or program instructions embodied therein said computer readable program code adapted to be executed to implement one or more functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational elements or steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions that execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide elements or steps for implementing the functions specified in the flow diagram block or blocks.

Accordingly blocks of the block diagrams and flow diagrams support combinations of means for performing the specified functions combinations of elements or steps for performing the specified functions and program instruction means for performing the specified functions. It will also be understood that each block of the block diagrams and flow diagrams and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and flow diagrams can be implemented by special purpose hardware based computer systems that perform the specified functions elements or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention set forth herein will be apparent having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

