---

title: Selectively transitioning between physical-layer networks during a streaming communication session within a wireless communications system
abstract: Embodiments are directed to a network-connection report is received at a server (e.g., a presence server) from a first user equipment (UE) that identifies a type of physical-layer network to which the first UE is connected. In response to a determination that the first UE is engaged in a communication session with a second UE, the server sends a notification message to the second UE that indicates the type of physical-layer network to which the first UE is connected. The second UE receives the notification message and determines a target physical-layer network for supporting the second UE's participation in the communication session based at least in part on the type of physical-layer network to which the first UE is connected. The second UE selectively transitions to the target network based on the determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08335192&OS=08335192&RS=08335192
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08335192
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100413
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to selectively transitioning between physical layer networks during a streaming communication session within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interacts with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Embodiments are directed to a network connection report is received at a server e.g. a presence server from a first user equipment UE that identifies a type of physical layer network to which the first UE is connected. In response to a determination that the first UE is engaged in a communication session with a second UE the server sends a notification message to the second UE that indicates the type of physical layer network to which the first UE is connected. The second UE receives the notification message and determines a target physical layer network for supporting the second UE s participation in the communication session based at least in part on the type of physical layer network to which the first UE is connected. The second UE selectively transitions to the target network based on the determination.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple UEs.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel. A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SSGN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Iu interface with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Referring to the presence server is conventionally responsible for tracking presence of a plurality of users throughout the wireless communications system. For example the presence server can be configured to determine presence status for users of services that are provided by the application server . In this case users of these services can report their presence status to the presence server on a periodic or event driven basis and the presence status of the users can be later used in the event the application server is requested to contact one or more of the users. While presence servers such as presence server conventionally track presence information for users of the wireless communication system it will be appreciated that the presence server does not typically monitor the connection type of the physical layer network e.g. 2.5G 3G 4G UMTS EV DO 1x etc. to which the users are connected.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Below embodiments of the invention are generally described in accordance with W CDMA protocols and associated terminology e.g. such as UE instead of mobile station MS mobile unit MU access terminal AT etc. RNC contrasted with BSC in EV DO or Node B contrasted with BS or MPT BS in EV DO etc. . However it will be readily appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art how the embodiments of the invention can be applied in conjunction with wireless communication protocols other than W CDMA.

In a conventional server arbitrated communication session e.g. via half duplex protocols full duplex protocols VoIP a group session over IP unicast a group session over IP multicast a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. a session or call originator sends a request to initiate a communication session to the application server which then forwards a call announcement message to the RAN for transmission to one or more targets of the call.

Increasingly UEs are being provisioned with dualmode dualcamp capability to support multiple physical layer access networks e.g. WiFi GSM GPRS HSPA 2.5G 3G 4G WiMAX etc. . Different types of physical layer access networks are associated with different QoS capabilities e.g. network bandwidth and latency etc. . With the emergence of 3G and 4G technologies the QoS gap between different physical layer access networks has increased further. Conventionally UEs select their physical layer access network using rules that are based on the respective UEs own environments. For example a given UE may consider criteria such as i the given UE s location ii a signal status e.g. pilot signal strength associated with local networks near the given UE iii a charging rate for services on different local networks iv a network acquisition hierarchy that defines which networks are preferred over others for the given UE and or v any combination thereof.

However when the given UE engages in a communication session e.g. a VoIP session a phone call a video streaming session a push to talk PTT session a push to transfer PTX session etc. with one or more other UEs the given UE will typically not be aware of the type of physical layer network to which the one or more other UEs are connected. For example the given UE may select a 3G network in accordance with the given UE s network selection rules whereas the one or more other UEs participating in the same communication session may select a 2.5G network in accordance with their own respective network selection rules and network availability. Accordingly the network connection decision of any particular UE participating in the communication session will not conventionally affect the network connection decisions of other UEs participating in the communication session.

If the communication session is a QoS intensive session such as a streaming multimedia session e.g. a Push to Live Video or PTX session between a plurality of UEs it will be appreciated that the connection types of the participating UEs to the session can affect the quality and efficiency of the session. For example assume a streaming communication session is established whereby a first UE transmitting UE is streaming video to a second UE receiving UE . If the transmitting UE is connected to a low QoS network e.g. a 1x network a 2G network etc. the quality of the video stream being transmitted may be relatively low. Despite the low quality of the video stream from the transmitting UE the receiving UE establishes a connection to a high QoS network e.g. 3G 4G etc. in an attempt to optimize the video quality for the streaming session. In this case the resources of the receiving UE are wasted in the sense that a high QoS network connection is established for the receipt of low QoS media.

Alternatively the transmitting UE can be connected to the high QoS network and the receiving UE can be connected to the low QoS network. In this scenario the transmitting UE sends a high quality video stream to the receiving UE. However the low QoS network to which the receiving UE is connected is not capable of sending the video stream at the high quality which prompts the low QoS network to scale the video stream down to a lower quality level before its transmission to the receiving UE. In this case the resources of the transmitting UE are wasted in the sense that a high QoS network connection is established for the transmitting UE and high quality video is sent from the transmitting UE but only low quality video arrives at the receiving UE due to its low QoS network connection.

As will be appreciated the above noted scenarios whereby the transmitting and receiving UEs participate in the communication session on different types of networks associated with different QoS capabilities can occur either upon set up of the communication session or alternatively during a previously established communication session subsequent to a network handoff of one of the participating UEs.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to notifying the presence server of the type of physical layer network a given UE is using to connect to the RAN of the wireless communications system. Thus the presence server becomes aware not only of the presence information for the UE as is known in the art but also its network type from which a performance expectation for a communication link to or from the given UE can be inferred. The presence server can convey the reported network type of the given UE to one or more other UEs that wish to engage in a communication session with the given UE. These UEs can then selectively modify their own network connection based on the knowledge of the network connection type used by the given UE to improve one or more performance parameters associated with the communication session.

Referring to a given UE establishes a connection to one of networks . . . N of the RAN in A. For example the connection establishment of A can correspond to setting up a session such as a point to point protocol PPP session whereby the given UE does not necessarily have an active traffic channel TCH for engaging in communication sessions and the RAN knows to contact the given UE on the network on which the PPP session is established. In another example the connection establishment of A can correspond to the given UE obtaining resources for engaging in a communication session such as a TCH and or QoS resources.

After establishing the network connection in A the given UE sends to the presence server information indicative of the physical layer network type of the network to which the given UE is connected A. As will be appreciated the message sent in A is an application layer message that contains information related to the physical layer connection of the given UE to the RAN . In an example the network information sent in A can be sent along with presence information of the given UE. While not shown in upon receiving the network connection report from the given UE the presence server updates a record to reflect the given UE s current network connection type. Accordingly shows how the given UE can notify the presence server of its network connection information after establishing a connection to one of networks . . . N.

At some point after the determination of the given UE to participate in the streaming communication session in B the presence server sends a message to the given UE that notifies the given UE of the types of networks supporting the streaming communication session for the one or more other UEs B. In an example the presence server can obtain this network information for the one or more other UEs based on the one or more other UEs performing the process of whereby network connection information is reported to the presence server upon establishment of the network connection. Further the notification of B can be triggered by the presence server being informed that the given UE is engaged in a communication session with the one or more other UEs. For example during an in call phase or set up phase of a given communication session the application server can instruct the presence server to notify the participating UEs of the session of their respective network connection types.

Upon receiving the notification from the presence server with regard to the network connection information of the one or more other UEs the given UE in B determines a target network for supporting the given UE s own participation in the streaming communication session based at least in part upon the network connection information in the notification of B. Examples of rules that can be applied by the given UE in making the determination of B will be given with respect to below with implementation examples of the processes of provided with respect to . After determining the target network in B the given UE transitions to the target network if necessary B. For example if the target network determined in B is different than a current physical layer network of the given UE the given UE transitions from the current network to the target network. Alternatively if the target network determined in B is the same as the current physical layer network of the given UE the given UE need not perform a network transition.

To better explain the concepts of the processes of illustrates an example of the processes of implemented during the set up of a streaming communication session in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

Referring to UE determines to set up a streaming communication session with UEs . . . N e.g. where N 2 C e.g. as in B of . Accordingly if N 2 the streaming communication session corresponds to a group communication session e.g. multicast multi unicast etc and if N 2 the streaming communication session corresponds to a one to one session or unicast session.

Next if necessary UE establishes a connection to one of networks . . . N of the RAN C e.g. as in A of . Because UE does not yet have knowledge regarding the network connections if any of UEs . . . N it will be appreciated that the network upon which UE establishes the connection in C can be based on UE s own local network selection rules e.g. to select WiFi over 3G 3G over 2.5G etc. to select the network with a highest pilot signal strength etc. . In C establishing the network connection includes obtaining call resources e.g. a TCH QoS resources etc. on the network to support wireless communications to from UE and the RAN .

After establishing the network connection in C UE sends a call request message on a reverse link channel to the RAN which forwards the call request message to the application server C. Also after establishing the network connection in C UE further sends a network connection report indicating UE s current network connection information on the reverse link channel to the RAN which forwards the network connection report to the presence server C e.g. as in A of . While not shown in the network connection report can be sent along with a message indicating UE s presence information to the presence server . Also while not shown in upon receiving the network connection report from UE the presence server updates a record to reflect UE s current network connection type.

While the network connection report of C is shown as occurring after the transmission of the call request message in C it will be appreciated that the network connection report can be sent before the call request message in another embodiment of the invention. Also is illustrated with the assumption that UE does not yet have a network connection upon making the determination of C. If UE was already connected to one of networks . . . N in C and this network was deemed suitable for supporting the streaming communication session it will be appreciated that C and C may actually occur prior to the determination of C such that the presence server is aware of UE s network before the process of is initiated.

Upon receiving the call request message in C the application server announces the communication session to UEs . . . N C. Assume that each of UEs . . . N receive the announce message and if necessary UEs . . . N each establish a connection to one of networks . . . N of the RAN C e.g. as in A of . In the example of it is assumed that at C UEs . . . N do not yet have knowledge of UE s network connection type e.g. unless this information is bundled within the announce message . Accordingly because UEs . . . N do not yet have knowledge regarding the network connection type of UE it will be appreciated that the network upon which UEs . . . N establish their respective connections in C can be based on the local network selection rules of UEs . . . N e.g. to select WiFi over 3G 3G over 2.5G etc. to select the network with a highest pilot signal strength etc. . In C establishing the network connection includes obtaining call resources e.g. a TCH QoS resources etc. on the network to support wireless communications to from UEs . . . N and the RAN .

After establishing the network connection in C UEs . . . N each send a call accept message on a reverse link channel to the RAN which forwards the call accept message s to the application server C. The call accept message s are acknowledgments of the call announcement message from C that indicate an acceptance of the announced communication session. Also after establishing the network connection in C UEs . . . N each send a network connection report indicating the current network connection information on the reverse link channel to the RAN which forwards the network connection report s to the presence server C e.g. as in A of . While not shown in the network connection report s can be sent along with a message indicating the presence information of UEs . . . N to the presence server . Also while not shown in upon receiving the network connection report s from UEs . . . N the presence server updates record s to reflect the current network connection type s for UEs . . . N.

While the transmission of the network connection report of C is shown as occurring after the transmission of the call accept message in C it will be appreciated that the network connection report can be sent before the call accept message in another embodiment of the invention. Also is illustrated with the assumption that UEs . . . N do not yet have a network connection upon making the determination to join the streaming communication session after receiving the announce message in C. If UEs . . . N were already connected to one of networks . . . N in C and this network was deemed suitable for supporting the streaming communication session it will be appreciated that C and C may actually occur prior to the receipt of the announce message in C such that the presence server is aware of the network s of UEs . . . N before the announce message of C.

In C and C UEs . . . N begin the streaming communication session whereby streaming media e.g. video media is exchanged between UE and one or more of UEs . . . N. In C the presence server sends a message to each of UEs . . . N that notifies UEs . . . N of the networks supporting the streaming communication session for each other UE participating in the streaming communication session e.g. as in B of . For example the notification sent to UE in C can indicate the network connection type of UEs . . . N the notification sent to UE in C can indicate the network connection type of UE and UEs . . . N if present and so on.

Responsive to the notification of C at UE UE determines whether to switch to a different one of networks . . . N based at least in part of the networks supporting the streaming communication session for UEs . . . N C e.g. as in of . Examples of how C can be executed at UE will be described in more detail below with respect to . After determining whether to switch to a different one of networks . . . N UE selectively transitions to the different network if UE determines to switch networks and then notifies the presence server of the network connection change for UE C.

Similarly responsive to the notification s of C at UEs . . . N each of UEs . . . N determines whether to switch to a different of networks . . . N based at least in part of the networks supporting the streaming communication session of each other participating UE C e.g. as in of . Examples of how C can be executed at UEs . . . N will be described in more detail below with respect to . After determining whether to switch to a different one of networks . . . N UEs . . . N each selectively transition to the different network if the respective UE s determines to switch networks and then each transitioning UE notifies the presence server of the network connection change for the UE C. If any of UEs . . . N transition to a different network in C through C the presence server can notify each other participating UE of the network change in C.

In the embodiment of the application server and presence server are shown as being separate network entities that operate for the most part independently. In another embodiment of the invention the application server presence can be co located and or can coordinate with each other. In this case it will be appreciated that the application server can bundle the notification of UE s network with the announce message of C and could potentially bundle network information of UEs . . . N in a message to UE such as an ACK to the call request message of C in an example.

Referring to the given UE is provisioned with a rule to attempt to engage in the streaming communication session on the same network as each other UE participating in the streaming communication session A. Accordingly based on the network connection notification from the presence server in conjunction with the given UE s knowledge of its own network connection the given UE determines whether each other UE participating in the streaming communication session is connected to the same type of physical layer network as the given UE A. In other words the given UE determines whether each participating UE is connected to a 3G network a 2.5G network a WiFi network etc.

If the given UE determines that each participating UE is connected to the same type of physical layer network in A then the given UE determines the rule from A to be satisfied and as such maintains its connection to the current physical layer network A. Otherwise if the given UE determines that each participating UE is not connected to the same type of physical layer network in A the given UE determines whether the network of the other participating UEs is available for the given UE A.

If the network of the other participating UEs is unavailable then switching to the other network is not possible and as such the given UE maintains the connection to its current physical layer network A. Otherwise if the network of the other participating UEs is available then the given UE selects a target network for its connection A and the given UE transitions itself to the target network if the target network is different from its current network A. Depending on the implementation the given UE can be configured to always select the network type of the other UE s if available in A. Alternatively additional rules can be evaluated in the selection of A. For example the specific network types of the given UE and the network type of the other UE s can be evaluated to trigger a pre defined target network selection in A e.g. if given UE s network is 2.5G and other UE s network is 3G set target network to 3G etc. .

For example as discussed above the selection of A can be performed in a network specific manner. In an example assume that 2.5G networks are generally associated with lower QoS than 3G networks and that the network connection notification from the presence server indicates each participating UE is connected to a 2.5G of 3G network. Accordingly if the given UE is connected to a 2.5G network in this example the given UE immediately selects the 3G network as its target network and can attempt a transition thereto in A. Otherwise if the given UE is connected to a 3G network the given UE can wait a threshold period of time to grant 2.5G connected UEs an opportunity to transition to the 3G network. If the presence server notifies the given UE that each of the 2.5G connected UEs successfully transitioned to the 3G network within the threshold period of time then the given UE selects its current network as the target network and thereby performs no network transition. Otherwise if the presence server does not notify the given UE that each of the 2.5G connected UEs successfully transitioned to the 3G network within the threshold period of time then the given UE infers that some of the 2.5G connected UEs were unable to transition to the 3G network and thereby selects to downgrade to the 2.5G network as the target network and transitions to the 2.5G network. Accordingly the above example reduces an occurrence whereby the participating UEs are constantly ping ponging between networks by having different types of network transitions being associated with different delays.

If the given UE determines that each participating UE is connected to the same QoS level network in B then the given UE determines the rule from B to be satisfied and as such maintains its connection to the current physical layer network B. Otherwise if the given UE determines that each participating UE is not connected to the same QoS level network in B the given UE determines whether the other participating UEs are operating on a higher QoS level network or a lower QoS level network B.

If the network of the other participating UEs is determined to be a higher QoS level network in B then the given UE attempts to transition to the higher QoS level network in B. Otherwise if the network of the other participating UEs is determined to be a lower QoS level network in B then the given UE determines whether the other participating UEs are expected to be capable of transitioning to the given UE s own higher QoS level network within a threshold period of time B. For example in B the given UE can start a timer having a period corresponding to how long the given UE is willing to wait for a notification from the presence server indicating that the other participating UEs have transitioned to the given UE s higher QoS level network.

If the given UE determines that one or more of the other participating UEs are restricted to the lower QoS level network and cannot transition to the higher QoS level network in B the given UE transitions itself to the lower QoS level network of the one or more other participating UEs if possible B. Otherwise if the given UE determines that one or more of the other participating UEs are capable of transitioning to the given UE s higher QoS level network in B the given UE maintains the connection to its current network B.

Accordingly the decision logic of seeks to achieve each participating UE being connected to the same network whereas the decision logic of seeks to achieve each participating UE being connected to the highest shared QoS level network or the network having a highest QoS level expectation that is also capable of supporting each participating UE in their present location of the wireless communications system.

Referring to assume that UE and UE are engaged in a streaming communication session whereby media is being streamed between UE and UE while UE and UE are both connected to a .G network A and A. As shown in in the direction of media streamed from UE to UE UE transmits media on the reverse link to the 2.5G network of the RAN which forwards the media to the application server . The application server in turn forwards the media to the 2.5G network of the RAN that is serving UE and the media is transmitted on the forward link or downlink to UE . A similar procedure can be used for relaying media from UE to UE in the other direction.

Next during the streaming communication session assume that UE enters a location area where the 2.5G network is unavailable A. For example UE may be handed off to a different subnet that does not support 2.5G communication protocols. In this example assume that the new location area for UE can support UE s communication session on a 3G network. Accordingly UE establishes a connection to the 3G network after which UE continues its engagement in the streaming communication session on the 3G network A. Accordingly in A UE sends media on the reverse link to the application server via the 3G network and likewise receives media on the downlink from the application server via the 3G network.

In A after setting up the connection to the 3G network UE transmits a network connection report to the presence server indicating that UE is connected to the 3G network and is no longer connected to the 2.5G network. The presence server notifies UE that UE has switched to the 3G network A.

Accordingly UE determines to switch from the 2.5G network to the 3G network based on the notification that UE is connected to the 3G network A. For example in A UE can execute the decision logic from such that UE determines that UE is not participating on the same network as UE A UE determines that the 3G network is available A UE selects the 3G network as its target network A and then UE transitions to the 3G network A . In this case the process of would also result in UE determining to switch to the 3G network. For example in A UE can execute the decision logic from such that UE determines that UE is connected to a network with a different QoS level from UE s 2.5G network B UE determines that the 3G network of UE is a higher QoS level network than the 2.5G network of UE B and UE thereby transitions to the 3G network B .

UE thereby establishes a connection to the 3G network after which UE continues its engagement in the streaming communication session on the 3G network A. Accordingly in A UE sends media on the reverse link to the application server via the 3G network and likewise receives media on the downlink from the application server via the 3G network.

In A after setting up the connection to the 3G network UE transmits a network connection report to the presence server indicating that UE is connected to the 3G network and is no longer connected to the 2.5G network A. The presence server notifies UE that UE has switched to the 3G network A. While not shown in the processes of and or B can be executed at UE upon receipt of the network connection notification of A. In this case because UE is notified that UE is connected to the 3G network UE will determine to maintain its connection to its own 3G network in either A of or B of .

As will be appreciated demonstrates how notifying participating UEs of a communication session with regard to their respective network connections can result in the UEs achieving network conformity. Thus in an example assume that users of UE and UE are charged fees when the respective UEs are communicating on different network types but not when UEs and are connected to the same network type. Thus maintaining network conformity as in can decrease the charges to the users of UE and or UE .

Referring to assume that UE and UE are engaged in a streaming communication session whereby video media is being streamed from UE to UE while UE and UE are both connected to a low QoS network e.g. 1x 2.5G 3G etc. B and B. As shown in UE transmits video media on the reverse link to the low QoS network of the RAN which forwards the video media to the application server . The application server in turn forwards the video media to the low QoS network of the RAN that is serving UE and the video media is transmitted on the forward link or downlink to UE .

Next during the streaming communication session assume that UE enters a location area where a high QoS network e.g. 3G 4G etc. is available B. For example UE may be handed off to a different subnet that supports a high QoS network such as 3G or 4G networks. Accordingly UE establishes a connection to the high QoS network after which UE sends higher quality video media on the high QoS network to UE as compared to the video media sent during B on the low QoS network B. Accordingly in B UE sends higher quality video media on the reverse link to the application server via the high QoS network.

In B after setting up the connection to the high QoS network UE transmits a network connection report to the presence server indicating that UE is connected to the high QoS network and is no longer connected to the low QoS network. The presence server notifies UE that UE has switched to the high QoS network B.

Accordingly UE determines to switch from the low QoS network to the high QoS network based on the notification that UE is connected to the high QoS network B. For example in B UE can execute the decision logic from such that UE determines that UE is not participating on the same network as UE A UE determines that the high QoS network is available A UE selects the high QoS network as its target network A and then UE transitions to the high QoS network A . In this case the process of would also result in UE determining to switch to the high QoS network. For example in B UE can execute the decision logic from such that UE determines that UE is connected to a network with a different QoS level from UE s low QoS network B UE determines that the high QoS network of UE is a higher QoS level network than the low QoS network of UE B and UE thereby transitions to the high QoS network B .

UE thereby establishes a connection to the high QoS network after which UE receives the video media from UE at the higher quality B. Accordingly in B UE receives media on the downlink from the application server via the high QoS network at the higher video quality which was unavailable while UE remained on the low QoS network.

In B after setting up the connection to the high QoS network UE transmits a network connection report to the presence server indicating that UE is connected to the high QoS network and is no longer connected to the low QoS network B. The presence server notifies UE that UE has switched to the high QoS network B. While not shown in the processes of and or B can be executed at UE upon receipt of the network connection notification of B. In this case because UE is notified that UE is connected to the high QoS network UE will determine to maintain its connection to its own high QoS network in either A of or B of .

In an example if the presence server had not reported UE s transition to the high QoS network within a threshold period of time UE may infer UE remains on the low QoS network and transition back to the 2.5G network because UE will infer the higher quality media is being wasted or cannot be received properly so long as UE remains on the low QoS network.

As will be appreciated demonstrates how notifying participating UEs of a communication session with regard to their respective network connections can result in the UEs increasing their efficiency with regard to resource usage. For example if UE did not transition to the high QoS network the benefits of the higher quality video media would not be achieved by UE such that UE s resources that are allocated to obtaining the higher quality video stream would be wasted.

Referring to assume that UE and UE are engaged in a streaming communication session whereby video media is being streamed from UE to UE while UE and UE are both connected to a high QoS network e.g. 1x 2.5G 3G etc. C and C. As shown in UE transmits video media on the reverse link to the high QoS network of the RAN which forwards the high quality video media to the application server . The application server in turn forwards the high quality video media to the high QoS network of the RAN that is serving UE and the high quality video media is transmitted on the forward link or downlink to UE .

Next during the streaming communication session assume that UE enters a location area where the high QoS network e.g. 3G 4G etc. is no longer available C. For example UE may be handed off to a different subnet that does not support the high QoS network and rather only supports low QoS networks. Accordingly UE establishes a connection to the low QoS network after which UE receives the video media at a lower quality on the low QoS network as compared to the high quality video media sent during C on the high QoS network C. Accordingly in C UE sends lower quality video media on the forward link even though the video media at this particular point in time is still being transmitted by UE at the higher quality level.

In C after setting up the connection to the low QoS network UE transmits a network connection report to the presence server indicating that UE is connected to the low QoS network and is no longer connected to the high QoS network. The presence server notifies UE that UE has switched to the low QoS network C.

Accordingly UE determines to switch from the high QoS network to the low QoS network based on the notification that UE is connected to the low QoS network C. For example in C UE can execute the decision logic from such that UE determines that UE is not participating on the same network as UE A UE determines that the low QoS network is available A UE selects the low QoS network as its target network A and then UE transitions to the low QoS network A . In this case the process of would also result in UE determining to switch to the low QoS network. For example in C UE can execute the decision logic from such that UE determines that UE is connected to a network with a different QoS level from UE s high QoS network B UE determines that the low QoS network of UE is a lower QoS level network than the high QoS network of UE B UE infers UE is not expected to be capable of switching back to the high QoS level since UE downgraded its network B and UE thereby transitions to the low QoS network B .

UE establishes a connection to the low QoS network after which UE sends the video media at a lower quality level C. Accordingly in C UE sends video media on the reverse link to the application server via the low QoS network at the lower video quality even though UE is capable of transmitting at the higher video quality.

In C after setting up the connection to the low QoS network UE transmits a network connection report to the presence server indicating that UE is connected to the low QoS network and is no longer connected to the high QoS network C. The presence server notifies UE that UE has switched to the low QoS network C. While not shown in the processes of and or B can be executed at UE upon receipt of the network connection notification of B. In this case because UE is notified that UE is connected to the low QoS network UE will determine to maintain its connection to its own low QoS network in either A of or B of .

In an example if the presence server had not reported UE s transition to the high QoS network within a threshold period of time UE may infer UE remains on the low QoS network transition back to the 2.5G network because UE will infer the higher quality media is being wasted or cannot be received properly so long as UE remains on the low QoS network.

As will be appreciated demonstrates how notifying participating UEs of a communication session with regard to their respective network connections can result in the UEs increasing their efficiency with regard to resource usage. For example if UE did not transition to the low QoS network UE s resources that are allocated to sending the higher quality video stream would be wasted because UE would no longer be capable of receiving the video media at the higher quality.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

