---

title: Prioritizing travel itineraries
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for prioritizing one or more travel itineraries based on an itinerary query. Respective candidate itineraries from a set of candidate itineraries are ranked based on one or more ranking factors for the candidate itineraries, where the candidate itineraries were identified from a location-interest graph using the query. A desired number of the ranked candidate itineraries are re-ranked based on a one or more historical travel sequences, such that one or more prioritized travel itineraries can be identified in response to the itinerary query.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08510315&OS=08510315&RS=08510315
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08510315
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101206
---
Traveling is a very popular leisure activity that people may under take in their free time while on vacation or when visiting a new area e.g. a city or country . Often travelers can find it challenging to make the most out of their available time when traveling in light of a potential desire to have a quality travel experience. If limited in time a traveler may not have the luxury of trial and error to find interesting locations and routes where potential visits may end up wasting available time. Travelers often use online e.g. the Internet resource to search for interesting travel locations and or routes of travel. For example online mapping sites can provide travel routes from a start and end point and points of interest may be displayed.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

There are a few available options that provide a list of potential travel itineraries to a user however they cannot typically prioritize the itineraries based on potential interest levels of various locations comprised in the itinerary. Commercial travel agencies can provide a handful of itineraries starting and ending in major locations with fixed duration of travel which force travelers to adapt to the itineraries rather than receiving an itinerary based on the user s needs. Travelers may also ask local residents in the region or refer to travel experts through travel web sites for recommendations. However these techniques are often burdensome and may not provide desired results for the user.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed where an inexperienced traveler may learn from experienced travel experts for example and active residents of a region to build an improved travel plan. Historical travel sequences provided by travelers may be utilized to build a location interest graph which provides information for building improved itineraries for a user based on the user s query. For example where the user provides a start and end point and a travel duration in a query one or more prioritized travel itineraries can be built using the query criteria.

In one embodiment for prioritizing one or more travel itineraries based on an itinerary query respective candidate itineraries from a set of candidate itineraries that have been identified from a location interest graph using the query are ranked based on one or more ranking factors for the candidate itineraries. Further a selected number of the ranked candidate itineraries e.g. a top k rank range are re ranked based on one or more historical travel sequences such that one or more prioritized travel itineraries can be identified for the user.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method may be devised that can provide one or more itineraries such as to a traveler new to an area which may make efficient use of a given duration by considering one or more accumulated travel routes and or experiences for example. For example user generated GPS trajectories may be stored in the cloud and accumulated as good examples for data mining. In this example a plurality of features may be extracted such as where to stay how long to stay and or how long to travel for example in order to aid a new user in building an efficient travel itinerary.

It will be appreciated that while GPS trajectories may be stored they can also be provided by users that agree to submit trajectories and or agree to have trajectories collected. It is anticipated that merely those user generated GPS trajectories that are provided by users that provided permission to store will be utilized. Further the user generated GPS directories can be anonymized for example such that user related personal e.g. location information is not collected and or stored. Moreover in one embodiment the collected and or stored information comprises merely knowledge aggregated from the user generated trajectories instead of an individual trajectory. For example the collected information can be comprised in a black box type of operation such that a connection between a recommended itinerary and a specific user generated GPS trajectory can not be discerned for example.

As an example multiple user generated GPS trajectories may be used to model one or more typical routes in an area where the trajectories can comprise connections between locations and a time relationship between locations e.g. how long it takes to travel between locations which may also consider and or comprise a duration of stay at respective locations . In one embodiment user generated GPS trajectories may be uploaded to and stored in a distributed cloud computing network cloud such as from automated GPS trackers and or from participating users experts and or hired consultants for example. From the plurality of trajectories for example a location interest graph can be generated comprising locations as nodes in the graph and edges as travel sequences between nodes.

In one embodiment some ranking threshold values can be used to quickly reject potentially undesirable candidates e.g. reject candidate itineraries with an elapsed time ratio less than 0.5 for example. In this example different weight values for the ranking factors can be assigned to the respective factors such as by setting values for a a and a in the equation below for example. In one embodiment ranking factors can be treated as equally important for example by setting their respective weights as a a a 1. In this embodiment a Euclidean distance ED of respective candidate itineraries e.g. trips can be determined using these ranking factors as dimensions e.g. three rankings comprising dimensions in a graph for example. In the example equation below ETR can comprise an elapsed time ratio for a trip STR can refer to stay time ratio for a trip and IDR can refer to interest density ratio as discussed in more detail below. ED square root over ETR STR IDR square root over ETR STR IDR square root over ETR STR IDR 

In one embodiment the candidate itineraries that comprise an area described in the query and a time comprised in the query may be selected. For example the user can select a start and finish point and a desired time duration for the trip e.g. start address or GPS point finish address or GPS point duration and possible mode of travel as part of the query. Respective possible itineraries can be identified such that the user can complete the trip in the duration. In one embodiment the ED can be determined for respective candidate itineraries in the set e.g. ones that meet the query parameters of start finish and duration for example where the itinerary having a lowest ED can comprise the itinerary with a highest rank.

At in the exemplary method a desired number of the respective ranked candidate itineraries are re ranked based on a one or more historical travel sequences resulting in a prioritized list of itineraries . For example the desired number of ranked candidate itineraries may comprise a desired number of higher ranker itineraries e.g. top ten ranked itineraries or the respective itineraries ranked in a percentage range e.g. top ten percent of ranked itineraries or respective candidate itineraries meeting a desired ranking threshold e.g. itineraries meeting a selected ED or some other selection criteria. In one embodiment a second ranking can be determined for the selected ranked candidate itineraries using the historical travel sequences.

In one embodiment the historical travel sequence can comprise aspects of the location interest graph such as a number of travelers traveling into and out of a location and or a number of travelers that have taken a particular sequence. For example an historical travel sequence can integrate an authority score of going in and out of a location and a hub score to provide a score for a travel sequences.

In one embodiment as illustrated by a calculation of a travel sequence score can be based on an authority score of location one al weighted by a probability of people moving out from this location in the sequence OutL L . In the example OUTL L is equal to five sevenths e.g. out of the 7 travelers moving out of location one five moved to location three and two moved out to location two . Further in this embodiment the calculation of the travel sequence score can be based on an authority score of location three al weighted by a probability of travelers moving in to this location by this sequence INL L . In the example INL L is equal to five eighths e.g. out of eight travelers moving into location three five moved from location one and three moved in from location four .

Additionally in one embodiment the calculation of the travel sequence score can be based on a hub score hb of the travelers UL L who have taken this sequence e.g. total travelers or percentage of travelers going from location one to location three . In the example a total of five travelers moved from location one to location three . Alternately of all the travelers that went to location one e.g. seven five moved to location three therefore the hub score may equal five sevenths for example. In one embodiment a variety of scores may be combined to determine a travel sequence score for a selected ranked itinerary.

Returning to the exemplary method of having re ranked the desired number of ranked candidate itineraries based on the historical travel sequences the exemplary method ends at .

In one embodiment a location can comprise a cluster of stay points detected from the user trajectories. In one embodiment a stay point can comprise a geographical region where a user stayed over a period time e.g. meeting a time threshold such as five minutes within a certain distance e.g. meeting a distance threshold such as fifty meters . For example as a user moves through a trip the trajectory of the trip may be characterized by a sequence of points where some points comprise stay points e.g. those that meet the desired time and distance thresholds . A user can stop at a restaurant during the trip and spend thirty minutes eating lunch for example. In this example the time spent at the restaurant along with little to no movement while at the restaurant can indicate a stay point.

In this embodiment a plurality of trajectories may be identified and the stay points comprised in the trajectories can be clustered together e.g. using some clustering algorithm to indicate locations for the location interest graph. In one embodiment a stay point threshold may be used to identify a location for example. In one embodiment the locations indicated by the stay points from the trajectories can comprise the nodes in the location interest graph for a desired area.

At in the exemplary embodiment a level of interest can be identified for respective nodes. In one embodiment a level of interest may be based on a number of user visits to a location and may also be based on a level of user experience for user s visiting the location. For example if more travelers visit a location a higher interest level may be assigned to that location. Further in this example a greater level of traveler experience for users that visit the location can attribute a higher level of interest for that location.

In one embodiment a level of experience of a user can be attributed to a level of interest for the locations visited by the user. In this embodiment this relationship between experience and interest for a location can be mutually reinforcing. For example an experienced user will typically visit many interesting places and interesting places will typically be visited by many experience users. Therefore when a location s interest level increases due to many visits by users those user s that do visit the location will have an increase in their experience level for example. In this way in this example users that are relatively local to a location will likely have a higher experience level due to many visits to those locations with higher interest and local locations can gain a higher interest level by visits from local experienced users.

At in the exemplary embodiment a stay time for respective nodes can be identified. As described above a stay time can comprise an amount of time a user stays at a location during a trajectory. In one embodiment identifying the stay time can comprise identifying a median stay time using a plurality of stay times from the historical travel sequences such as from user trajectories uploaded to the cloud.

For example as described above a plurality of historical travel sequences can comprise user trajectories e.g. GPS trajectories that have been uploaded and stored in the cloud. In this example these trajectories may be examined to identify stay times for user stay points that correspond to the node that comprises the location e.g. a cluster of stay points . Further in this example the median stay time from the plurality stay times can be used as the node s stay time in the location interest graph. In an alternate embodiment an average stay time from the plurality of stay times from historical travel sequences may be used as the node s stay time or some other statistical value of stay times that is appropriate for a node stay time.

At in the exemplary embodiment an edge for the location interest graph can be identified which can comprise a travel trajectory between two nodes in the graph. That is for example a travel trajectory between nodes may comprise a route traveled by the user of the uploaded trajectory between two locations e.g. represented by the nodes in the graph or it may comprise a trajectory between the two locations that does not comprise an actual route traveled by a user e.g. or potential user . In one embodiment identifying the edge can comprise identifying a median travel trajectory using a plurality of travel trajectories from historical travel sequences.

For example as described above the historical travel trajectories can comprise trips or routes traveled by users that have been stored e.g. by uploading to the cloud network such as for a particular area or plurality of areas. In this example the historical trajectories can be examined and routes traveled between the two locations in the plurality of trajectories can be identified. Further a median route e.g. or average or some other appropriate statistical representation may be determined from the identified routes and used as the edge between the nodes in the location interest graph.

In one embodiment identifying the edge can further comprise identifying a median travel time between the two nodes in the graph using the plurality of travel trajectories from the historical travel sequences. For example the historical travel trajectories can comprise trips or routes traveled by users that have been stored respectively comprising travel times for the route between the locations. In this example the historical trajectories can be examined and route travel times between the two locations in the plurality of trajectories can be identified. Further a median route travel time e.g. or average or some other appropriate statistical representation may be determined from the identified times and used as a value corresponding to the edge between the nodes in the location interest graph.

At in the exemplary embodiment the location interest graph can be used to select the set of candidate itineraries . In one embodiment the set of candidate itineraries can be identified from the location interest graph using the query for example from a new route user who may be looking for an interesting itinerary. In one embodiment the query can comprise a starting location an ending location and a desired duration for the itinerary.

For example the new user may have arrived in a city that is unknown to them and they may wish to spend a few hours walking around their hotel to explore. In this example the user can enter the query comprising their hotel as a starting and ending location and three hours as the duration. Further in one embodiment the query may comprise the user s travel mode for example walking e.g. so that the duration for the itinerary corresponds appropriately to accommodate a walking pace .

In one embodiment identifying the set of candidate itineraries using the query can comprise comparing the starting location and the ending location comprised in the query with one or more locations in the location interest graph. For example routes identified in the location interest graph that do not start and end at the new user s hotel may not be considered as potential candidates. Further in this embodiment identifying the set of candidate itineraries using the query can comprise comparing the duration comprised in the query with a combination of a travel time between locations in the location interest graph and a stay time for the locations in the location interest graph.

For example a selected candidate itinerary can comprise a duration that accounts for both the travel time between respective locations and the time the new user may spend at respective locations. In one embodiment the duration from the query can be compared with one or more time related factors in the location interest graph. As an example the duration of any selected candidate itinerary from the location interest graph for the new user can comprise a sum of the time it takes for the new user to walk the route in the itinerary e.g. sum of travel times for edges in graph and the time the new user spends at each location in the itinerary e.g. sum of stay times for nodes in the graph .

In one embodiment in order to identify a set of candidate itineraries a set of trip candidates can be identified from the location interest graph. In this embodiment respective trip candidates can comprise trips that have a starting point and ending point that matches those of the query and a duration that at least meets the query duration e.g. does not exceed the time of the duration . For example in this embodiment the potential trips that start from the query starting point end and the query ending point and do not exceed the time from the query s duration can be identified as trip candidates.

Further in this embodiment a trip candidate value for the respective trip candidates in the set of trip candidates can be compared with a desired threshold value to identify a threshold difference e.g. difference between the trip candidate value and the threshold value . In one embodiment in order to determine the value for the trip candidate and threshold a combination of trip factors may be used. For example trip factors may comprise one or more of an elapsed time ratio ETR a stay time ratio STR and an interest density ratio IDR .

In one embodiment the ETR can comprise a comparison of the query duration and the trip candidate duration. For example if the query duration is three hours and the trip candidate duration is two hours the ETR for this comparison may be two to three e.g. ratio of 2 3 or or 0.67 . In one embodiment the STR can comprise a comparison of the stay time for the trip candidate and the travel time between locations for the trip candidate. For example if the trip candidate comprises a stay time e.g. comprising a sum of all the stay times in the trip of one hour and a travel time e.g. comprising a sum of all the travel times between locations in the trip of two hours the STR may be one to three e.g. a ratio of 1 3 or or 0.33 .

In one embodiment the IDR can comprise a comparison of an interest level value for respective locations in the trip candidate with the number of locations in the trip candidate. For example an interest level for respective locations in the trip candidate can be summed e.g. a summation of the interest levels for all of the locations in the trip candidate and that sum can be divided by a number of locations in the trip candidate. As an illustrative example trip candidate may comprise five locations respectively having interest levels of 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.8 and 0.7. Therefore in this example the IDR for the trip candidate can be 0.5 e.g. divide the total interest level of 2.5 by five locations .

As an illustrative example those trip candidates comprising higher trip factor ratios may be considered more desirable to a new user. For example the user may wish to pack as much as possible into their itinerary therefore a higher ETR STR and IDR would be more desirable. Alternately if the new user wished to have more travel time than stay time for example a lower STR may be more desirable. In one embodiment a desired threshold value for a candidate trip may comprise a combination of ideal ratios for example as expressed by the user submitting the query. For example if the new user submitting the query desired to visit as many locations as possible in the allotted time while having the most interest an ideal ratio value for the respective trip factors may be one e.g. having an ETR 1 a STR 1 and a IDR 1 .

In one embodiment respective trip factor values for the trip candidates can be identified and plotted in three dimensional space for example comprising the ETR STR and IDR as the respective axes of the 3D space. In this embodiment a distance from the desired threshold value plotted on the three dimensional space e.g. having an ETR STR and IDR value of one to the respective plot locations for the trip candidates can be measured. Further the respective trip candidates can be ranked according to the measured distances.

In one embodiment the set of candidate itineraries can be selected from the one or more trip candidates corresponding to a desired range of identified threshold differences where the set of candidate itineraries comprises a subset of the set of trip candidates. For example a top twenty ranked trip candidates may be selected from the set of trip candidates to be used for the set of candidate itineraries. As another example merely the first ten ranked trip candidates in the set may be selected such as where one or more ranked trip candidates have a same ranking. In another embodiment merely those trip candidates that meet a desired distance threshold may be selected for the set of candidate itineraries for example where the distance between the desired threshold value and trip candidate value in the 3D space meet the distance threshold e.g. are less than or equal to a desired distance .

In the exemplary embodiment of having selected the set of candidate itineraries an ETR IDR and STR is determined for the candidate itineraries at and respectively. As described above the ratios may be identified as ranking factors for the respective candidate itineraries and combined at . In one embodiment the ranking factors can comprise factors relating to a duration of the candidate itinerary a travel time between the locations in the candidate itinerary a stay time for location in the candidate itinerary and a location interest factor for the candidate itinerary.

When determining the ranking factors used to rank the candidate itineraries the duration of the candidate itinerary can be used to determine a candidate itinerary ETR by comparing the query duration with the duration of the candidate itinerary. Further the travel time between locations for the candidate itinerary and or the stay time at a location for the candidate itinerary can be used to determine a candidate itinerary STR by comparing the stay time at a location in the candidate query with the travel time between locations in the candidate itinerary. Additionally the location interest factor for the candidate itinerary can be used to determine candidate query IDR by comparing an interest level value for respective locations in the candidate itinerary with a number of locations in the candidate itinerary.

In one embodiment at the values from the ratios for the candidate itinerary can be combined for example by adding the values plotting the values on a three dimensional graph or some other function that provides for an appropriate delineation between combined values for the candidate itineraries. At the candidate itineraries are ranked according to their respective combined ranking factor values. For example a candidate itinerary having a more desired combination of ranking factor values e.g. higher may be ranked higher than one having a less desirable e.g. lower combination of ranking factor values. Accordingly in this exemplary embodiment a set of ranked itinerary candidates may be provided.

At the selected ranked candidates are re ranked using the historical travel sequences to produce a set of prioritized travel itineraries such as in response to a user query e.g. of . For example as described above with regard to historical travel sequences can provide a most travelled route type ranking for candidate itineraries where those candidate itineraries that have historically been more travelled may have a higher ranking than those that have not been traveled as much. As an illustrative example a route described by a first candidate itinerary may have been traveled by ten travelers according to stored travel trajectories e.g. uploaded from travelers and or detected using tracking systems such as GPS and a second candidate itinerary may have been traveled by fifteen travelers. In this example the second candidate itinerary can be re ranked higher than the first due to it being a historically more popular route of travel.

In one embodiment when re ranking the respective ranked candidate itineraries based on historical travel sequences a number of historical travel sequences of travelers to a first location from one or more second locations can be combined with an experience level of the travelers. As described with regard to above when travelling from location one to location three a number of travelers moving from and to location e.g. can be used to identify a travel sequence score for the travel sequence L L.

In this embodiment the travel sequence score can also comprise the experience level of respective travelers to and from the locations used to calculate the score. For example when calculating a segment score respective travelers can be weighted by their experience level such as assigning a weight of one to a highest level of experience and using the experience level for the travel sequence. For example as illustrated in the five users moving from location one to location three may comprise experience levels of 0.1 0.5 0.5 0.6 and 0.7. In this example the combined user travel sequence score can comprise 2.4 e.g. instead of five for the travel sequence from location one to location three . In this way in this example those historical travelers having a higher experience level can weight a travel sequence higher while those historical travelers having a lower experience can weight a travel sequence lower thereby providing an adjusted ranking for a candidate itinerary.

In one embodiment the prioritized travel itineraries comprising re ranked itinerary candidates can be presented in response to the itinerary query. For example a user may submit a query such as using a search engine for an itinerary from a desired start point to a desired end point involving a desired amount of time. In response the prioritized list of itineraries e.g. or merely the highest ranked itinerary can be returned to the user such as in the search engine results display.

A system may be devised that can provide one or more itineraries such as to a traveler new to an area which may make efficient use of a given duration by considering multiple users accumulated travel routes and experiences for example. User generated GPS trajectories can be stored in the cloud e.g. remote based computing management utility and or storage network and accumulated as desired examples for data mining. In this example a plurality of features may be extracted such as where to stay and or how long to travel in order to aid a new user in building an efficient travel itinerary.

Operably coupled with the itinerary ranking component is a re ranking component which re ranks ranked candidate itineraries within a desired rank range using one or more historical travel sequences to yield prioritized travel itineraries . In one embodiment the ranking factors can comprise a stay time ratio that comprises a comparison of a stay time at a location and a travel time between locations such as identified in the location interest graph . Further the ranking factors can comprise an interest density ratio that comprises a comparison of an interest level value for respective locations in the candidate itinerary and a number of locations in the candidate itinerary such as identified in the location interest graph . Additionally the ranking factors can comprise an elapsed time ratio that comprises a comparison of a query duration with the duration of the candidate itinerary such as identified in the location interest graph and the query .

In one embodiment the location interest graph can comprise a plurality of nodes that respectively correspond to a location such as a geographical region comprising one or more clustered stay points from user generated trajectories stored in the cloud for example. Further the location interest graph can comprise an interest level for respective nodes which corresponds to a potential level of interest that a traveler may have for the location e.g. which may correspond to a number of previous visits by historical travelers .

In one embodiment the location interest graph can comprise a stay time for respective nodes which comprises a median amount of time a person stays at the location. For example the median stay time can be identified from a plurality of stay times from the historical travel sequences. Further the location interest graph can comprise one or more edges between nodes e.g. locations where the edges comprise a travel trajectory e.g. route of travel between two nodes. Additionally in one embodiment the edge between two nodes in the graph may comprise a travel time such as a median travel time between locations as identified from historical travel sequences for example.

Stay points e.g. locations visited by the users can be extracted from the historical trajectories at and clustered into locations for a location graph . Further using the stored historical travel sequences location interest and travel sequences can be identified at to generate a location interest graph. For example a continuous location interest graph may be generated for all geographical areas serviced by historical travel sequences. Further the location interest graph may be continuously or periodically updated as new and additional user travel sequences are uploaded to the remote storage .

A user can connect to the travel itinerary search system and submit a query comprising a desired start and end point and a desired time duration. The query can be verified at by comparing the terms of the query against an available location interest graph . For example the query may be verified to determine if the terms start end and duration are possible given the available geographic regions covered by the location interest graph .

In this embodiment the itinerary ranking component can be used to select trip candidates e.g. selected a set of candidate itineraries from trip candidates at and rank selected trip candidates e.g. ranked candidate itineraries at . The re ranking component can select a desired number of ranked trip candidates such the top k candidates and re rank them according to historical travel sequences at . A prioritized itinerary can be presented to the user such as by displaying the one or more prioritized itineraries in the itinerary search results.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

