---

title: System and method for obtaining user information
abstract: Embodiments presented herein provide methods, systems and computer program products for incentivizing users for providing user information. One method transmits data operative to cause a remote client application to render a structured form for input by a user. The structured form comprises one or more fields into which a user can input user attribute data. The method receives one or more user information objects including the user attribute data. The method accesses a data store of famous persons, comprising one or more famous person information objects each associated with a famous person, and including famous person attribute data. The method identifies one or more famous persons based on a matching of at least one of the user information objects and one or more famous person information objects. The method presents the identified famous persons and one or more aspects of associated famous person attribute data matching the user attribute data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08843817&OS=08843817&RS=08843817
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08843817
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100914
---
The present disclosure generally relates to targeted content provision and more particularly to collection of user information.

The internet is a powerful tool for content providers to reach out to a large audience. The internet provides powerful targeted content provision methods such as contextual targeting behavioral targeting lifestyle targeting demographic targeting geographic targeting and the like. Targeted content provision methods enable content providers to reach out to the relevant audience. Through targeted content provision content providers keep the interest in the target audience high and effect higher return rates. Targeted content provision also enables marketers to improve their conversion rates while keeping marketing costs in check.

Content providers perform behavioral targeting using website visitor navigation and content viewing patterns. Example software for gathering user behavioral statistics includes Google Analytics Urchin Software from Google Inc. Yahoo Web Analytics and Omniture s Site Catalyst. Geographic targeting also called geo targeting or geo marketing is the method of determining the geographic location the physical location of a website visitor and delivering different content to that visitor based on his or her location such as country region state city metro code zip code. The geographic location of the website visitor may be derived using information such as Internet Protocol IP address Internet Service Provider ISP traceroute and the like. Such information may be derived from click stream data cookies Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP request headers server traffic logs. However such methods to determine the geographic location may be complex computing intensive and often inaccurate.

Lifestyle and demographic targeting include obtaining user information such as annual income user s interests objects that a user may own and so forth. Lifestyle and demographic information may usually be obtained from the user directly using online forms and surveys. However users may not always participate in such surveys. Some users may not wish to disclose their personal information at all since there is no immediate incentive for providing the information. Also users may not find it interesting to fill out online forms.

In particular embodiments the present invention provides methods systems and computer program products for obtaining user information and incentivizing users for providing the user information. In one method the method receives one or more user information objects at a server. The method then accesses a data store of famous persons. The data store comprises one or more famous person information objects associated with the famous persons. The method then identifies one or more famous persons based on a matching of the one or more user information objects and one or more famous person information objects. The method finally presents the identified famous persons and associated famous person information objects.

Various embodiments of the present invention will be described in detail below with reference to accompanying drawings. It will be apparent however that these embodiments may be practiced without some or all of these specific details. In other instances well known process steps or elements have not been described in detail in order not to unnecessarily obscure the description of the invention. The following example embodiments and their aspects are described and illustrated in conjunction with apparatuses methods and systems which are meant to be illustrative examples not limiting in scope.

Embodiments presented herein provide methods systems and computer program products for incentivizing users for providing user information. One method transmits data operative to cause a remote client application to render a structured form for input by a user. The structured form comprises one or more fields into which a user can input user attribute data. The method receives one or more user information objects including the user attribute data. The method accesses a data store of famous persons comprising one or more famous person information objects each associated with a famous person and including famous person attribute data. The method identifies one or more famous persons based on a matching of at least one of the user information objects and one or more famous person information objects. The method presents the identified famous persons and one or more aspects of associated famous person attribute data matching the user attribute data.

Network based service provider is a network addressable system that hosts a network based service accessible over network to one or more users using client nodes . Example network based services include an internet search engine an e mail service an instant messaging service one or more social networking websites one or more professional networking websites a news website a business website a gaming website one or more message boards one or more online blogs one or more media streaming websites one or more electronic commerce websites career or business networking service and the like.

Application servers may provide access to the network based services to client nodes . The application servers host web pages and applications implemented using Common Gateway Interface script CGI PHP Hyper text Processor PHP Active Server Pages ASP Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML Java and the like. In some embodiments users may register for the network based services provided by network based service provider . A registration and authentication server not shown in may facilitate registration of new users to the network based services and authenticate existing users at sign in. The registration and authentication server may use security protocols such as Secure Sockets Layer SSL Transport Layer Security TLS or GnuTLS.

Profiling system maps the user to one or more famous personalities based on the commonalities between the personal information of the user and the personal information of the one or more famous persons. Profiling system transmits data operative to cause client node to render a structured form for input by a user wherein the structured form comprises one or more fields into which a user can input user attribute data. Profiling system receives one or more user information objects including user attribute data. Profiling system then accesses a data store of famous persons. The data store includes one or more famous person information objects associated with the famous persons. Profiling system then identifies one or more famous persons based on matching the user information objects with the famous person information objects. Profiling system then presents the identified famous persons and associated famous person attribute data that matches the user attribute data. Example information objects include without limitation a name an age a gender a date of birth a sun sign one or more areas of interests a location of the user and a picture of the user.

Profiling system provides an incentive to users for providing the user s personal information by presenting the commonalities between the user and the famous persons. Such incentives may drive the user to provide additional personal information. Network based service provider may then use the personal information of the users to provide lifestyle and demographic based targeted content provision. In addition to the lifestyle and demographic targeting network based service provider may also provide targeted content to the users based on behavioral targeting and geo targeting. Profiling system is described in detail in conjunction with and .

Application server may host a user interface module. The user interface module is configured to prompt a user to input his her personal information and accept the personal information input by the user. The web based application is configured to return information related to famous persons based on the user s personal information. Particularly the interface includes a plurality of information fields that are filled by the user in order to receive the information related to famous person matching the user s personal information. The plurality of information fields may be customized to have specific information fields to receive particular user information. This information may be specifically utilized in the returning the information relating to famous persons. Further this information may be required to customize web content to be displayed to the user in future. In an embodiment of the present invention the interface may be deployed as a pop up window a new tab in a web browser window and a new window of the web browser a banner text in a sidebar and the like.

Furthermore the application server receives the user s personal information and stores it in user information database .

Client node is a computing device from which a user accesses the services provided by the network based service provider . Client node has the capability to communicate over network . Client node further has the capability to provide the user an interface to interact with the service provided by network based service provider . Client node may be for example a desktop computer a laptop computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant and the like. Client node may execute one or more client applications such as without limitation a web browser to access and view content over a computer network an email client to send and retrieve emails an instant messaging client for communicating with other users and a File Transfer Protocol FTP client for file transfer. Client nodes in various embodiments may include a Wireless Application Protocol WAP browser or other wireless or mobile device protocol suites such as without limitation NTT DoCoMo s i mode wireless network service protocol suites EDGE and the like.

Although illustrates the foregoing systems as separate systems the functionality represented by each system may be combined into other systems. Furthermore the functionality represented by each depicted system may be further separated. Still further implementations of the present invention may operate in network environments that include multiples of one or more of the individual systems and sites disclosed herein. In addition other implementations may operate in network environments where one or more of the systems described herein have been omitted.

Interface module is configured to receive the user information objects and to present one or more famous persons based on a matching between one or more user information objects and one or more famous person information objects. In one example implementation interface module may be an application programming interface API that interworks with a user interface hosted by application server and mapping module . Such a user interface may include an interface for prompting a user to input his personal details an interface for accepting the user inputs and an interface for presenting the matching famous persons to the user. Example user interfaces are described in conjunction with . In another example implementation interface module may be a user interface configured to interact with the user and interwork with mapping module .

Interface module receives the user information objects from either the user interface or directly from the user depending on the implementation. Interface module then transmits the user information objects to mapping module . Interface module receives the identified famous persons and the associated famous person information objects which match the user person information objects from mapping module or from data store depending on the implementation. Interface module then presents the identified famous persons and the associated famous person information objects. As described above interface module may host a user interface which presents the identified famous person and matching information objects to the user or transfer the identified famous person and matching information objects to a user interface hosted by application server .

Upon receiving the user information objects mapping module accesses data store . Data store includes one or more famous person information objects associated with the famous persons. Mapping module may then identify one or more famous persons based on the famous person information objects matching the user information objects. Mapping module may identify the famous persons based on an exact match between the user information objects and the famous person information objects. For example mapping module may identify famous persons that like the same cuisine as the user based on an exact match of the information object favorite cuisine . Alternatively mapping module may identify the famous persons based on an approximate match between the user information objects and the famous person information objects. For example mapping module may identify famous persons that have the same sun sign as the user based on an approximate match of the information object date of birth .

Mapping module may issue a database query to access data store and to identify the famous persons. Mapping module may issue separate queries for different information objects. Alternatively mapping module may group the different information objects to form a complex query. Mapping module may group the different information objects using Boolean operators such as AND OR and NOT. Mapping module includes the user information objects as fields of the query and values of the user information objects as the values for the fields. In other words the user information object City constitutes the field of the query and Cupertino constitutes the value of the field. In some embodiments mapping module may also include a facial pattern matching module. The facial pattern matching module may compare the facial features of the user s photograph with the facial features of famous persons.

Data store stores the famous person information objects associated with the famous persons. With time more people become famous and already famous persons may be recognized for newer achievements. Data store may be updated periodically to account for such additions. Such periodic updates may include adding famous persons to data store and adding associated famous person information objects to data store . Further existing famous person information objects may be updated as applicable. For instance famous person information objects related to the famous persons interests including favorite music movies TV shows cuisine and so forth may be updated periodically. Still further new famous person information objects or previously unknown famous person information objects may be associated with existing famous persons in the periodic updates. In an example implementation one or more human operators may update data store periodically.

Data store may store the famous person information objects in one of a database a text file a comma separated file a tab separated file a Java Script Object Notation file and the like. In the database implementation of data store any known database solution such as a Relational Database Management System RDBMS an Extensible Markup Language XML database a flat file database and the like may be used. Data store may then transmit the famous person information objects having values that match the values of the user information objects and the identity of the famous person associated with the matching values to interface module in response to the query issued by mapping module .

Network based service provider may retrieve the information objects associated with the famous persons from various sources such as but not limited to Wikipedia on line encyclopedias official website of the famous person fan websites news websites blogs and the like. Network based service provider may deploy crawlers to retrieve the information objects. In some implementations human operators may editorially review the information objects provide the names of the famous persons and update the sources of information to be crawled for the famous person information objects.

Although illustrates the foregoing systems as separate systems the functionality represented by each system may be combined into other systems. Furthermore the functionality represented by each depicted system may be further separated. Still further implementations of the present invention may operate in network environments that include multiples of one or more of the individual systems and sites disclosed herein.

At step profiling system transmits data operative to cause client node to render a structured form for input by a user. The structured form comprises one or more fields into which a user can input user attribute data. Example structured forms are described in conjunction with .

At step profiling system receives one or more user information objects including the user attribute data. As described above in conjunction with profiling system receives the one or more user information objects through a user interface that may be hosted by application server or by profiling system . Depending on the implementation profiling system may receive the user information objects either directly from the user or from application server . Examples of user information objects may include but not limited to a name an age a gender a date of birth a sun sign one or more areas of interests a location of the user a picture of the user and the like. However it may be apparent to a person skilled in the art that various other user information objects may be received without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

At step profiling system accesses data store of famous persons. The data store may include one or more famous person information objects associated with the famous persons. Examples of famous person information object may include but not limited to a name an age a gender a date of birth a sun sign one or more areas of interests a location of the famous person and a picture of the famous person. Profiling system may access data store using database queries or search commands depending on whether data store is implemented as a database or other data storage formats such as text files spreadsheets or delimiter separated value files such as CSV TSV and the like . Profiling system uses the user information objects as parameters to the query.

At step profiling system identifies one or more famous persons based on a matching of at least one of the user information objects and the famous person information objects. Profiling system may identify the famous persons based on an exact match between the user information objects and the famous person information objects. For example profiling system may identify famous persons that like the same cuisine as the user based on an exact match of the information object favorite cuisine . Alternatively profiling system may identify the famous persons based on an approximate match between the user information objects and the famous person information objects. For example profiling system may identify famous persons that have the same sun sign as the user based on an approximate match of the information object date of birth .

At step profiling system presents the identified famous persons and one or more aspects of associated famous person attribute data that matches the user attribute data. In one embodiment profiling system presents the identified famous person and matching famous person information object directly to the user through a user interface generated by profiling system . In another embodiment profiling system presents the identified famous persons and the associated matching information objects to a user interface hosted by application server . Application server then renders the user interface and presents it to the user. The famous persons and the aspects of associated famous person attribute data that match the user attribute data may be presented on a separate web page or integrated onto the same web page. Example implementations of presenting in a separate window include a pop up window a new tab in a web browser window and a new window of the web browser. Example implementations of presenting on the same web page include a banner text in a sidebar and the like.

Presenting the identified famous persons and the aspects of associated famous person attribute data that match the user attribute data provides an incentive to the user for providing user information. In other words the user is more likely to provide the user information when the user has a motivation such as finding out interesting commonalities that the user shares with one or more famous persons. Network based service provider may then use the user information objects for provided targeted content to the user. Targeted content may include advertisements newsletters and the like. Network based service provider may use the user information objects in conjunction with behavioral and geo targeting to provide targeted content to the user. Network based service provider may store the received user information objects in a user information data store to facilitate future targeted content provision.

In one embodiment where the user has registered with the network based service provider the user logs on to the network based service using a unique username and password assigned to the user during registration. Accordingly network based service provider identifies which user is currently entering the user information associates the received user information objects with that user and stores the user information objects in the appropriate locations within the user information data store. In another embodiment where the user is not registered with the network based service provider network based service provider may identify the user based on one or more of an Internet Protocol IP address cookies and the like. Network based service provider may then store the received user information objects in appropriate locations within the user information data store.

In one embodiment the process described herein is implemented as a series of software routines run by hardware system . These software routines comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as processor . Initially the series of instructions are stored on a storage device such as mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable storage medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM EEPROM DVD Blu ray disk etc. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as server on a network via network communication interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as mass storage into system memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

In one embodiment hardware system may also include I O ports a keyboard and pointing device a display coupled to bus . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system . A host bridge couples processor to high performance I O bus . Hardware system may further include video memory not shown and a display device coupled to the video memory. Collectively these elements are intended to represent a broad category of computer hardware systems including but not limited to general purpose computer systems based on the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Intel Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. and the x86 compatible processors manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices AMD Inc. of Sunnyvale Calif. as well as any other suitable processor.

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain embodiments of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. According to one embodiment of the present invention the operating system is the LINUX operating system. However the present invention may be used with other suitable operating systems such as the Windows 95 98 NT XP Server operating system available from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Int. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems and the like.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described with reference to specific hardware and software components those skilled in the art will appreciate that different combinations of hardware and or software components may also be used and that particular operations described as being implemented in hardware might also be implemented in software or vice versa. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

