---

title: N-9 substituted purine compounds, compositions and methods of use
abstract: 

wherein R, R, R, A, A, A, Aand D have the meaning described herein. The present invention also relates to pharmaceutical compositions comprising such compounds and therapeutic uses thereof.

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08288381&OS=08288381&RS=08288381
owner: Genentech, Inc.
number: 08288381
owner_city: South San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101110
---
This application claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 61 260 640 filed on Nov. 12 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

The mammalian target of rapamycin mTOR is a 289 kDa serine threonine kinase that is considered a member of the phosphoinositide 3 kinase like kinase PIKK family because it contains a carboxyl terminal kinase domain that has significant sequence homology to the catalytic domain of phosphoinositide 3 kinase PI3K lipid kinases. In addition to the catalytic domain at the C terminus mTOR kinase also contains a FKBP12 Rapamycin binding FRB domain a putative repressor domain near the C terminus and up to 20 tandemly repeated HEAT motifs at the N terminus as well as a FRAP ATM TRRAP FAT and FAT C terminus domain. See Huang and Houghton 2003 3 371 377. In the literature mTOR kinase is also referred to as FRAP FKBP12 and rapamycin associated protein RAFT1 rapamycin and FKBP12 target 1 RAPT1 rapamycin target 1 .

mTOR kinase can be activated by growth factors through the PI3K Akt pathway or by cellular stresses such as deprivation of nutrients or hypoxia. The activation of mTOR kinase is thought to play a central role in regulating cell growth and cell survival via a wide range of cellular functions including translation transcription mRNA turnover protein stability actin cytoskeleton reorganization and autophagy. For a detailed review of mTOR cell signaling biology and potential therapeutic effects of modulating the mTOR signaling interactions see Sabatini D. M. and Guertin D. A. 2005 An Expanding Role for mTOR in Cancer 11 353 361 Chiang G. C. and Abraham R. T. 2007 Targeting the mTOR signaling network in cancer 13 433 442 Jacinto and Hall 2005 Tor signaling in bugs brain and brawn 4 117 126 and Sabatini D. M. and Guertin D. A. 2007 Defining the Role of mTOR in Cancer 12 9 22.

Researchers studying mTOR kinase biology have discovered a pathological connection between the dysregulation of mTOR cell signaling and a number of diseases including immunological disorders cancer metabolic diseases cardiovascular diseases and neurological disorders.

For example there is evidence to show that PI3K AKT signaling pathway which lies upstream of mTOR kinase is frequently overactivated in cancer cells which subsequently results in the hyperactivation of downstream targets like mTOR kinase. More specifically the components of the PI3K AKT pathway that are mutated in different human tumors include activation mutations of growth factor receptors and the amplification and overexpression of PI3K and AKT. In addition there is evidence which shows that many tumor types including glioblastoma hepatocellular carcinoma lung carcinoma melanoma endometrial carcinomas and prostate cancer contain loss of function mutations of negative regulators of the PI3K AKT pathways such as phosphatases and tensin homolog deleted on chromosome 10 PTEN and tuberous sclerosis complex TSC1 TSC2 which also results in hyperactive signaling of mTOR kinase. The above suggests that inhibitors of mTOR kinase can be effective therapeutics for the treatment of diseases caused at least in part by the hyperactivity of the mTOR kinase signalling.

mTOR kinase exists as two physically and functionally distinct signaling complexes i.e. mTORC1 and mTORC2 . mTORC1 also known as the mTOR Raptor complex or the rapamycin sensitive complex because it binds to and is inhibited by the small molecule inhibitor rapamycin. mTORC1 is defined by the presence of the proteins mTOR Raptor and mLST8. Rapamycin itself is a macrolide and was discovered as the first small molecule inhibitor of mTOR kinase. To be biologically active rapamycin forms a ternary complex with mTOR and FKBP12 which is a cytosolic binding protein collectively called immunophilin. Rapamycin acts to induce the dimerization of mTOR and FKBP12. The formation of rapamycin FKBP12 complex results in a gain of function because the complex binds directly to mTOR and inhibits the function of mTOR.

A second more recently discovered mTORC complex mTORC2 is characterized by the presence of the proteins mTOR Rictor Protor 1 mLST8 and mSIN1. mTORC2 is also referred to as the mTOR Rictor complex or the rapamycin insensitive complex because it does not bind to rapamycin.

Both mTOR complexes play important roles in intracellular signaling pathways that affect a cell s growth and proliferation and survival. For example the downstream target proteins of mTORC1 include Ribosomal S6 kinases e.g. S6K1 S6K2 and eukaryotic initiation factor 4E binding protein 4E BP1 which are key regulators of protein translation in cells. Also mTORC2 is responsible for the phosphorylation of AKT S473 and studies have shown that uncontrolled cell proliferation due to hyperactivation of AKT to be a hallmark of several cancer types.

Currently several rapamycin analogues are in clinical development for cancer e.g. Wyeth s CCI 779 Novartis RAD001 and Ariad Pharmaceuticals AP23573 . Interestingly the clinical data shows that the rapamycin analogs appear to be effective for certain cancer types such as mantle cell lymphoma endometrial cancer and renal cell carcinoma.

The discovery of a second mTOR protein complex mTORC2 that is not inhibited by rapamycin or its analogs suggest that inhibition of mTOR by rapamycin is incomplete and that a direct mTOR kinase inhibitor which can inhibit both mTORC1 and mTORC2 at the catalytic ATP binding site can be more efficacious and have broader anti tumor activity than rapamycin and its analogs.

Recently small molecule mTOR inhibitors have been disclosed including in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 599 663 and 11 657 156 to OSI Pharmaceuticals Inc. in International Applications WO 2008 023161 and WO 2006 090169 to Kudos Pharmaceuticals and in International Applications WO 2008 032060 WO 2008 032086 WO 2008032033 WO 2008 032028 WO 2008 032036 WO 2008 032089 WO 2008 032072 WO 2008 031091 WO 2008 116129 to AstraZeneca International publication WO 2008 116129 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 276 459 to Wyeth.

U.S. Provisional Application 61 085 309 discloses a class of N heterocyclic fused pyrimidine compounds with mTOR activity.

In view of the increased knowledge of the role of mTOR signaling in diseases e.g. cancer it is desirable to have small molecule inhibitors of mTOR including mTORC1 and mTORC2 that can be used to treat diseases wherein aberrant mTOR activity is observed such as for example in cancer. In addition it can be desirable to have small molecule inhibitors of related enzymes e.g. PI3K AKT that functions upstream or downstream of the mTOR signaling pathway.

In another aspect the present invention provides for pharmaceutical compositions comprising at least one pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or excipient and a compound of Formula I.

In another aspect the present invention provides for methods of using compounds of Formula I for the treatment of disease or disorders that can be treated by the inhibition of mTOR kinase.

As used herein the term alkyl by itself or as part of another substituent means unless otherwise stated a straight or branched chain hydrocarbon radical having the number of carbon atoms designated i.e. Cmeans one to eight carbons . Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl n propyl iso propyl n butyl t butyl iso butyl sec butyl n pentyl n hexyl n heptyl n octyl and the like. The term alkenyl refers to an unsaturated alkyl radical having one or more double bonds. Similarly the term alkynyl refers to an unsaturated alkyl radical having one or more triple bonds. Examples of such unsaturated alkyl groups include vinyl 2 propenyl crotyl 2 isopentenyl 2 butadienyl 2 4 pentadienyl 3 1 4 pentadienyl ethynyl 1 and 3 propynyl 3 butynyl and the higher homologs and isomers. The term cycloalkyl carbocyclic or carbocycle refers to hydrocarbon rings having the indicated number of ring atoms e.g. Ccycloalkyl and being fully saturated or having no more than one double bond between ring vertices. As used herein cycloalkyl carbocyclic or carbocycle is also meant to refer to bicyclic polycyclic and spirocyclic hydrocarbon rings such as for example bicyclo 2.2.1 heptane pinane bicyclo 2.2.2 octane adamantane norborene spirocyclic Calkane etc. As used herein the terms alkenyl alkynyl cycloalkyl carbocycle and carbocyclic are meant to include mono and polyhalogenated variants thereof.

The term heteroalkyl by itself or in combination with another term means unless otherwise stated a stable straight or branched chain hydrocarbon radical consisting of the stated number of carbon atoms and from one to three heteroatoms selected from the group consisting of O N Si and S and wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms can optionally be oxidized and the nitrogen heteroatom can optionally be quaternized. The heteroatom s O N and S can be placed at any interior position of the heteroalkyl group. The heteroatom Si can be placed at any position of the heteroalkyl group including the position at which the alkyl group is attached to the remainder of the molecule. A heteroalkyl can contain up to three units of unsaturation and also include mono and poly halogenated variants or combinations thereof. Examples include CH CH O CH CH CH O CF CH CH NH CH CH CH N CH CH CH S CH CH S O CH CH CH S O CH CH CH O CH Si CH CH CH N OCH and CH CH N CH CH. Up to two heteroatoms can be consecutive such as for example CH NH OCHand CH O Si CH .

The term heterocycloalkyl heterocyclic or heterocycle refers to a cycloalkane group that contain from one to five heteroatoms selected from N O and S wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms are optionally oxidized and the nitrogen atom s are optionally quaternized. Unless otherwise stated a heterocycloalkyl heterocyclic or heterocycle ring can be a monocyclic a bicyclic spirocyclic or a polycyclic ring system. Non limiting examples of heterocycloalkyl heterocyclic or heterocycle rings include pyrrolidine piperidine imidazolidine pyrazolidine butyrolactam valerolactam imidazolidinone hydantoin dioxolane phthalimide piperidine pyrimidine 2 4 1H 3H dione 1 4 dioxane morpholine thiomorpholine thiomorpholine 5 oxide thiomorpholine S S oxide piperazine pyran pyridone 3 pyrroline thiopyran pyrone tetrahydrofuran tetrahydrothiophene quinuclidine tropane and the like. A heterocycloalkyl heterocyclic or heterocycle group can be attached to the remainder of the molecule through one or more ring carbons or heteroatoms. A heterocycloalkyl heterocyclic or heterocycle can include mono and poly halogenated variants thereof.

The term alkylene by itself or as part of another substituent means a divalent radical derived from an alkane as exemplified by CHCHCHCH . Typically an alkyl or alkylene group will have from 1 to 24 carbon atoms with those groups having 10 or fewer carbon atoms being preferred in the present invention. Haloalkylene refers to mono and poly halogenated variant of alkylene. Alkenylene and alkynylene refer to the unsaturated forms of alkylene having double or triple bonds respectively and are also meant to include mono and poly halogenated variants.

The term heteroalkylene by itself or as part of another substituent means a divalent radical saturated or unsaturated or polyunsaturated derived from heteroalkyl as exemplified by CH CH S CHCH and CH S CH CH NH CH O CH CH CH CH CH C H CH O CH and S CH C C . For heteroalkylene groups heteroatoms can also occupy either or both of the chain termini e.g. alkyleneoxy alkylenedioxy alkyleneamino alkylenediamino and the like .

The terms alkoxy alkylamino and alkylthio or thioalkoxy are used in their conventional sense and refer to those alkyl groups attached to the remainder of the molecule via an oxygen atom an amino group or a sulfur atom respectively. Additionally for dialkylamino groups the alkyl portions can be the same or different and can also be combined to form a 3 7 membered ring with the nitrogen atom to which each is attached. Accordingly a group represented as NRRis meant to include piperidinyl pyrrolidinyl morpholinyl azetidinyl and the like.

The terms halo or halogen by themselves or as part of another substituent mean unless otherwise stated a fluorine chlorine bromine or iodine atom. Additionally terms such as haloalkyl are meant to include monohaloalkyl and polyhaloalkyl. For example the term Chaloalkyl is mean to include trifluoromethyl 2 2 2 trifluoroethyl 4 chlorobutyl 3 bromopropyl difluoromethyl and the like.

The term aryl means unless otherwise stated a polyunsaturated typically aromatic hydrocarbon group which can be a single ring or multiple rings up to three rings which are fused together. The term heteroaryl refers to aryl groups or rings that contain from one to five heteroatoms selected from N O and S wherein the nitrogen and sulfur atoms are optionally oxidized and the nitrogen atom s are optionally quaternized. A heteroaryl group can be attached to the remainder of the molecule through a heteroatom. Non limiting examples of aryl groups include phenyl naphthyl and biphenyl while non limiting examples of heteroaryl groups include pyridyl pyridazinyl pyrazinyl pyrimindinyl triazinyl quinolinyl quinoxalinyl quinazolinyl cinnolinyl phthalaziniyl benzotriazinyl purinyl benzimidazolyl benzopyrazolyl benzotriazolyl benzisoxazolyl isobenzofuryl isoindolyl indolizinyl benzotriazinyl thienopyridinyl thienopyrimidinyl pyrazolopyrimidinyl imidazopyridines benzothiaxolyl benzofuranyl benzothienyl indolyl quinolyl isoquinolyl isothiazolyl pyrazolyl indazolyl pteridinyl imidazolyl triazolyl tetrazolyl oxazolyl isoxazolyl thiadiazolyl pyrrolyl thiazolyl furyl thienyl and the like. Optional substituents for each of the above noted aryl and heteroaryl ring systems can be selected from the group of acceptable substituents described further below.

The above terms e.g. alkyl aryl and heteroaryl in some embodiments will include both substituted and unsubstituted forms of the indicated radical. Preferred substituents for each type of radical are provided below.

Substituents for the alkyl radicals including those groups often referred to as alkylene alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl and cycloalkyl can be a variety of groups including but not limited to halogen OR NR R SR SiR R R OC O R C O R COR CONR R OC O NR R NR C O R NR C O NR R NR C O R NHC NH NH NR C NH NH NHC NH NR NR C NR R N CN NR C NR R NOR NHC NH NR S O R S O R S O NR R NR S O R NR S O NR R CN NO CH OR CH NR R CH SR CH SiR R R CH OC O R CH C O R CH COR CH CONR R in a number ranging from zero to 2m 1 where m is the total number of carbon atoms in such radical. R R and R each independently refer groups including for example hydrogen unsubstituted Calkyl unsubstituted heteroalkyl unsubstituted aryl aryl substituted with 1 3 halogens unsubstituted Calkyl Calkoxy or Cthioalkoxy groups or unsubstituted aryl Calkyl groups unsubstituted heteroaryl substituted heteroaryl among others. When R and R are attached to the same nitrogen atom they can be combined with the nitrogen atom to form a 3 4 5 6 or 7 membered ring. For example NR R is meant to include 1 pyrrolidinyl and 4 morpholinyl. Other substitutents for alkyl radicals including heteroalkyl alkylene include for example O NR N OR N CN NH wherein R include substituents as described above. When a substituent for the alkyl radicals including those groups often referred to as alkylene alkenyl alkynyl heteroalkyl and cycloalkyl contains an alkylene linker e.g. CH NR R the alkylene linker includes halo variants as well. For example the linker CH when used as part of a substituent is meant to include difluoromethylene 1 2 difluoroethylene etc.

Similarly substituents for the aryl and heteroaryl groups are varied and are generally selected from the group including but not limited to halogen OR OC O R NR R SR R CN NO COR CONR R C O R OC O NR R NR C O R NR C O R NR C O NR R NHC NH NH NR C NH NH NHC NH NR S O R S O R S O NR R NR S O R N perfluoro Calkoxy and perfluoro Calkyl CH OR CH NR R CH SR CH SiR R R CH OC O R CH C O R CH COR CH CONR R in a number ranging from zero to the total number of open valences on the aromatic ring system and where R R and R are independently selected from hydrogen Calkyl Ccycloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl unsubstituted aryl and heteroaryl unsubstituted aryl Calkyl and unsubstituted aryloxy Calkyl. Other suitable substituents include each of the above aryl substituents attached to a ring atom by an alkylene tether of from 1 4 carbon atoms. When a substituent for the aryl or heteroaryl group contains an alkylene linker e.g. CH NR R the alkylene linker includes halo variants as well. For example the linker CH when used as part of a substituent is meant to include difluoromethylene 1 2 difluoroethylene etc.

As used herein the term chiral refers to molecules which have the property of non superimposability of the mirror image partner while the term achiral refers to molecules which are superimposable on their mirror image partner.

As used herein the term stereoisomers refers to compounds which have identical chemical constitution but differ with regard to the arrangement of the atoms or groups in space.

As used herein a squiggly line that intersects a bond in a chemical structure indicate the point of attachment of the atom to which the bond is connected in the chemical structure to the remainder of a molecule or to the remainder of a fragment of a molecule.

 Diastereomer refers to a stereoisomer with two or more centers of chirality and whose molecules are not mirror images of one another. Diastereomers have different physical properties e.g. melting points boiling points spectral properties and reactivities. Mixtures of diastereomers can separate under high resolution analytical procedures such as electrophoresis and chromatography.

 Enantiomers refer to two stereoisomers of a compound which are non superimposable mirror images of one another.

Stereochemical definitions and conventions used herein generally follow S. P. Parker Ed. McGraw Hill Dictionary of Chemical Terms 1984 McGraw Hill Book Company New York and Eliel E. and Wilen S. Stereochemistry of Organic Compounds John Wiley Sons Inc. New York 1994. The compounds of the invention can contain asymmetric or chiral centers and therefore exist in different stereoisomeric forms. It is intended that all stereoisomeric forms of the compounds of the invention including but not limited to diastereomers enantiomers and atropisomers as well as mixtures thereof such as racemic mixtures form part of the present invention. Many organic compounds exist in optically active forms i.e. they have the ability to rotate the plane of plane polarized light. In describing an optically active compound the prefixes D and L or R and S are used to denote the absolute configuration of the molecule about its chiral center s . The prefixes d and l or and are employed to designate the sign of rotation of plane polarized light by the compound with or l meaning that the compound is levorotatory. A compound prefixed with or d is dextrorotatory. For a given chemical structure these stereoisomers are identical except that they are mirror images of one another. A specific stereoisomer can also be referred to as an enantiomer and a mixture of such isomers is often called an enantiomeric mixture. A 50 50 mixture of enantiomers is referred to as a racemic mixture or a racemate which can occur where there has been no stereoselection or stereospecificity in a chemical reaction or process. The terms racemic mixture and racemate refer to an equimolar mixture of two enantiomeric species devoid of optical activity.

As used herein the term tautomer or tautomeric form refers to structural isomers of different energies which are interconvertible via a low energy barrier. For example proton tautomers also known as prototropic tautomers include interconversions via migration of a proton such as keto enol and imine enamine isomerizations. Valence tautomers include interconversions by reorganization of some of the bonding electrons.

As used herein the term solvate refers to an association or complex of one or more solvent molecules and a compound of the invention. Examples of solvents that form solvates include but are not limited to water isopropanol ethanol methanol DMSO ethyl acetate acetic acid and ethanolamine. The term hydrate refers to the complex where the solvent molecule is water.

As used herein the term protecting group refers to a substituent that is commonly employed to block or protect a particular functional group on a compound. For example an amino protecting group is a substituent attached to an amino group that blocks or protects the amino functionality in the compound. Suitable amino protecting groups include acetyl trifluoroacetyl t butoxycarbonyl BOC benzyloxycarbonyl CBZ and 9 fluorenylmethylenoxycarbonyl Fmoc . Similarly a hydroxy protecting group refers to a substituent of a hydroxy group that blocks or protects the hydroxy functionality. Suitable protecting groups include acetyl and silyl. A carboxy protecting group refers to a substituent of the carboxy group that blocks or protects the carboxy functionality. Common carboxy protecting groups include phenylsulfonylethyl cyanoethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethyl 2 trimethylsilyl ethoxymethyl 2 p toluenesulfonyl ethyl 2 p nitrophenylsulfenyl ethyl 2 diphenylphosphino ethyl nitroethyl and the like. For a general description of protecting groups and their use see P. G. M. Wuts and T. W. Greene Greene s Protective Groups in Organic Synthesis 4edition Wiley Interscience New York 2006.

As used herein the term mammal includes but is not limited to humans mice rats guinea pigs monkeys dogs cats horses cows pigs and sheep

As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts is meant to include salts of the active compounds which are prepared with relatively nontoxic acids or bases depending on the particular substituents found on the compounds described herein. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively acidic functionalities base addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired base either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable inorganic bases include aluminum ammonium calcium copper ferric ferrous lithium magnesium manganic manganous potassium sodium zinc and the like. Salts derived from pharmaceutically acceptable organic bases include salts of primary secondary and tertiary amines including substituted amines cyclic amines naturally occurring amines and the like such as arginine betaine caffeine choline N N dibenzylethylenediamine diethylamine 2 diethylaminoethanol 2 dimethylaminoethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine N ethylmorpholine N ethylpiperidine glucamine glucosamine histidine hydrabamine isopropylamine lysine methylglucamine morpholine piperazine piperidine polyamine resins procaine purines theobromine triethylamine trimethylamine tripropylamine tromethamine and the like. When compounds of the present invention contain relatively basic functionalities acid addition salts can be obtained by contacting the neutral form of such compounds with a sufficient amount of the desired acid either neat or in a suitable inert solvent. Examples of pharmaceutically acceptable acid addition salts include those derived from inorganic acids like hydrochloric hydrobromic nitric carbonic monohydrogencarbonic phosphoric monohydrogenphosphoric dihydrogenphosphoric sulfuric monohydrogensulfuric hydriodic or phosphorous acids and the like as well as the salts derived from relatively nontoxic organic acids like acetic propionic isobutyric malonic benzoic succinic suberic fumaric mandelic phthalic benzenesulfonic p tolylsulfonic citric tartaric methanesulfonic and the like. Also included are salts of amino acids such as arginate and the like and salts of organic acids like glucuronic or galactunoric acids and the like see for example Berge S. M. et al. Pharmaceutical Salts Journal of Pharmaceutical Science 1977 66 1 19 . Certain specific compounds of the present invention contain both basic and acidic functionalities that allow the compounds to be converted into either base or acid addition salts.

The neutral forms of the compounds can be regenerated by contacting the salt with a base or acid and isolating the parent compound in the conventional manner. The parent form of the compound differs from the various salt forms in certain physical properties such as solubility in polar solvents but otherwise the salts are equivalent to the parent form of the compound for the purposes of the present invention.

In addition to salt forms the present invention provides compounds which are in a prodrug form. As used herein the term prodrug refers to those compounds that readily undergo chemical changes under physiological conditions to provide the compounds of the present invention. Additionally prodrugs can be converted to the compounds of the present invention by chemical or biochemical methods in an ex vivo environment. For example prodrugs can be slowly converted to the compounds of the present invention when placed in a transdermal patch reservoir with a suitable enzyme or chemical reagent.

Prodrugs of the invention include compounds wherein an amino acid residue or a polypeptide chain of two or more e.g. two three or four amino acid residues is covalently joined through an amide or ester bond to a free amino hydroxy or carboxylic acid group of a compound of the present invention. The amino acid residues include but are not limited to the 20 naturally occurring amino acids commonly designated by three letter symbols and also includes phosphoserine phosphothreonine phosphotyrosine 4 hydroxyproline hydroxylysine demosine isodemosine gamma carboxyglutamate hippuric acid octahydroindole 2 carboxylic acid statine 1 2 3 4 tetrahydroisoquinoline 3 carboxylic acid penicillamine ornithine 3 methylhistidine norvaline beta alanine gamma aminobutyric acid citrulline homocysteine homoserine methyl alanine para benzoylphenylalanine phenylglycine propargylglycine sarcosine methionine sulfone and tert butylglycine.

Additional types of prodrugs are also encompassed. For instance a free carboxyl group of a compound of the invention can be derivatized as an amide or alkyl ester. As another example compounds of this invention comprising free hydroxy groups can be derivatized as prodrugs by converting the hydroxy group into a group such as but not limited to a phosphate ester hemisuccinate dimethylaminoacetate or phosphoryloxymethyloxycarbonyl group as outlined in Fleisher D. et al. 1996 Improved oral drug delivery solubility limitations overcome by the use of prodrugs Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 19 115. Carbamate prodrugs of hydroxy and amino groups are also included as are carbonate prodrugs sulfonate esters and sulfate esters of hydroxy groups. Derivatization of hydroxy groups as acyloxy methyl and acyloxy ethyl ethers wherein the acyl group can be an alkyl ester optionally substituted with groups including but not limited to ether amine and carboxylic acid functionalities or where the acyl group is an amino acid ester as described above are also encompassed. Prodrugs of this type are described in J. Med. Chem. 1996 39 10. More specific examples include replacement of the hydrogen atom of the alcohol group with a group such as C alkanoyloxymethyl 1 C alkanoyloxy ethyl 1 methyl 1 C alkanoyloxy ethyl C alkoxycarbonyloxymethyl N C alkoxycarbonylaminomethyl succinoyl C alkanoyl alpha amino C alkanoyl arylacyl and alpha aminoacyl or alpha aminoacyl alpha aminoacyl where each alpha aminoacyl group is independently selected from the naturally occurring L amino acids P O OH P O O C alkyl or glycosyl the radical resulting from the removal of a hydroxyl group of the hemiacetal form of a carbohydrate .

For additional examples of prodrug derivatives see for example a Design of Prodrugs edited by H. Bundgaard Elsevier 1985 and Methods in Enzymology Vol. 42 p. 309 396 edited by K. Widder et al. Academic Press 1985 b A Textbook of Drug Design and Development edited by Krogsgaard Larsen and H. Bundgaard Chapter 5 Design and Application of Prodrugs by H. Bundgaard p. 113 191 1991 c H. Bundgaard Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews 8 1 38 1992 d H. Bundgaard et al. Journal of Pharmaceutical Sciences 77 285 1988 and e N. Kakeya et al. Chem. Pharm. Bull. 32 692 1984 each of which is specifically incorporated herein by reference.

Additionally the present invention provides for metabolites of compounds of the invention. As used herein a metabolite refers to a product produced through metabolism in the body of a specified compound or salt thereof. Such products can result for example from the oxidation reduction hydrolysis amidation deamidation esterification deesterification enzymatic cleavage and the like of the administered compound.

Metabolite products typically are identified by preparing a radiolabelled e.g. C or H isotope of a compound of the invention administering it parenterally in a detectable dose e.g. greater than about 0.5 mg kg to an animal such as rat mouse guinea pig monkey or to man allowing sufficient time for metabolism to occur typically about 30 seconds to 30 hours and isolating its conversion products from the urine blood or other biological samples. These products are easily isolated since they are labeled others are isolated by the use of antibodies capable of binding epitopes surviving in the metabolite . The metabolite structures are determined in conventional fashion e.g. by MS LC MS or NMR analysis. In general analysis of metabolites is done in the same way as conventional drug metabolism studies well known to those skilled in the art. The metabolite products so long as they are not otherwise found in vivo are useful in diagnostic assays for therapeutic dosing of the compounds of the invention.

Certain compounds of the present invention can exist in unsolvated forms as well as solvated forms including hydrated forms. In general the solvated forms are equivalent to unsolvated forms and are intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present invention. Certain compounds of the present invention can exist in multiple crystalline or amorphous forms. In general all physical forms are equivalent for the uses contemplated by the present invention and are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

Certain compounds of the present invention possess asymmetric carbon atoms optical centers or double bonds the racemates diastereomers geometric isomers regioisomers and individual isomers e.g. separate enantiomers are all intended to be encompassed within the scope of the present invention.

The compounds of the present invention can also contain unnatural proportions of atomic isotopes at one or more of the atoms that constitute such compounds. For example the present invention also embraces isotopically labeled variants of the present invention which are identical to those recited herein bur the for the fact that one or more atoms are replace by an atom having the atomic mass or mass number different from the predominant atomic mass or mass number usually found in nature for the atom. All isotopes of any particular atom or element as specified are contemplated within the scope of the compounds of the invention and their uses. Exemplary isotopes that can be incorporated in to compounds of the invention include isotopes of hydrogen carbon nitrogen oxygen phosphorous sulfur fluorine chlorine and iodine such as H H C C C N N O O O P P S F Cl I and I. Certain isotopically labeled compounds of the present invention e.g. those labeled with H or C are useful in compound and or substrate tissue distribution assays. Tritiated H and carbon 14 C isotopes are useful for their ease of preparation and detectability. Further substitution with heavier isotopes such as deuterium i.e. H may afford certain therapeutic advantages resulting from greater metabolic stability e.g. increased in vivo half life or reduced dosage requirements and hence may be preferred in some circumstances. Positron emitting isotopes such as O N C and F are useful for positron emission tomography PET studies to examine substrate receptor occupancy. Isotopically labeled compounds of the present inventions can generally be prepared by following procedures analogous to those disclosed in the Schemes and or in the Examples herein below by substituting an isotopically labeled reagent for a non isotopically labeled reagent.

The terms treat and treatment refer to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures wherein the object is to prevent or slow down lessen an undesired physiological change or disorder such as the development or spread of cancer. For purposes of this invention beneficial or desired clinical results include but are not limited to alleviation of symptoms diminishment of extent of disease stabilized i.e. not worsening state of disease delay or slowing of disease progression amelioration or palliation of the disease state and remission whether partial or total whether detectable or undetectable. Treatment can also mean prolonging survival as compared to expected survival if not receiving treatment. Those in need of treatment include those already with the condition or disorder as well as those prone to have the condition or disorder or those in which the condition or disorder is to be prevented.

The phrase therapeutically effective amount means an amount of a compound of the present invention that i treats or prevents the particular disease condition or disorder ii attenuates ameliorates or eliminates one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder or iii prevents or delays the onset of one or more symptoms of the particular disease condition or disorder described herein. In the case of cancer the therapeutically effective amount of the drug can reduce the number of cancer cells reduce the tumor size inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop cancer cell infiltration into peripheral organs inhibit i.e. slow to some extent and preferably stop tumor metastasis inhibit to some extent tumor growth and or relieve to some extent one or more of the symptoms associated with the cancer. To the extent the drug can prevent growth and or kill existing cancer cells it can be cytostatic and or cytotoxic. For cancer therapy efficacy can be measured for example by assessing the time to disease progression TTP and or determining the response rate RR .

The terms cancer and cancerous refer to or describe the physiological condition in mammals that is typically characterized by unregulated cell growth. A tumor comprises one or more cancerous cells. Examples of cancer include but are not limited to carcinoma lymphoma blastoma sarcoma and leukemia or lymphoid malignancies. More particular examples of such cancers include squamous cell cancer e.g. epithelial squamous cell cancer lung cancer including small cell lung cancer non small cell lung cancer NSCLC adenocarcinoma of the lung and squamous carcinoma of the lung cancer of the peritoneum hepatocellular cancer gastric or stomach cancer including gastrointestinal cancer pancreatic cancer glioblastoma cervical cancer ovarian cancer liver cancer bladder cancer hepatoma breast cancer colon cancer rectal cancer colorectal cancer endometrial or uterine carcinoma salivary gland carcinoma kidney or renal cancer prostate cancer vulval cancer thyroid cancer hepatic carcinoma anal carcinoma penile carcinoma as well as head and neck cancer.

As used herein the term adjunct relates to the use of active compounds in conjunction with known therapeutic means. Such means include cytotoxic regimes of drugs and or ionising radiation as used in the treatment of different cancer types. Examples of chemotherapeutic agents that can be combined with compounds of the invention include Erlotinib TARCEVA Genentech OSI Pharm. Bortezomib VELCADE Millennium Pharm. Fulvestrant FASLODEX AstraZeneca Sutent SU11248 Pfizer Letrozole FEMARA Novartis Imatinib mesylate GLEEVECO Novartis PTK787 ZK 222584 Novartis Oxaliplatin Eloxatin Sanofi 5 FU 5 fluorouracil Leucovorin Rapamycin Sirolimus RAPAMUNE Wyeth Lapatinib TYKERB GSK572016 Glaxo Smith Kline Lonafarnib SCH 66336 Sorafenib BAY43 9006 Bayer Labs and Gefitinib IRESSA AstraZeneca AG1478 AG1571 SU 5271 Sugen alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan and piposulfan aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine triethylenephosphoramide triethylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylomelamine acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone a camptothecin including the synthetic analog topotecan bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogs cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogs KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlomaphazine chlorophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimustine antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gammalI and calicheamicin omegaI1 Angew Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 1994 33 183 186 dynemicin including dynemicin A bisphosphonates such as clodronate an esperamicin as well as neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins cactinomycin carabicin caminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin daunorubicin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin epirubicin esorubicin idarubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin porfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin zorubicin anti metabolites such as methotrexate and 5 fluorouracil 5 FU folic acid analogs such as denopterin methotrexate pteropterin trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane trilostane folic acid replenisher such as frolinic acid aceglatone aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid eniluracil amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elformithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea lentinan lonidainine maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone podophyllinic acid 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofuran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulations of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rhone Poulenc Rorer Antony France chlorambucil GEMZAR gemcitabine 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine methotrexate platinum analogs such as cisplatin and carboplatin vinblastine etoposide VP 16 ifosfamide mitoxantrone vincristine NAVELBINE vinorelbine novantrone teniposide edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin capecitabine XELODA ibandronate CPT 11 topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluoromethylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above.

Also included in the definition of chemotherapeutic agent are i anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen citrate raloxifene droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene citrate ii aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane Pfizer formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole Novartis and ARIMIDEX anastrozole AstraZeneca iii anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog iv protein kinase inhibitors for example a PI3K inhibitor a MEK inhibitor etc v lipid kinase inhibitors vi antisense oligonucleotides particularly those which inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in aberrant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Ralf and H Ras vii ribozymes such as VEGF expression inhibitors e.g. ANGIOZYME and HER2 expression inhibitors viii vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN LEUVECTIN and VAXID PROLEUKIN rIL 2 a topoisomerase 1 inhibitor such as LURTOTECAN ABARELIX rmRH ix anti angiogenic agents such as bevacizumab AVASTIN Genentech and x pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids and derivatives of any of the above. Active compounds can also be used as cell culture additives to inhibit mTOR for example in order to sensitize cells to known chemotherapeutic agents or ionising radiation treatments in vitro.

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A Ris selected from the group consisting of morpholin 4 yl 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 4 yl 3 6 dihydro 2H pyran 4 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 1 4 oxazepan 4 yl 2 oxa 5 azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 5 yl 3 oxa 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octan 8 yl piperidin 1 yl and 8 oxa 3 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octan 3 yl wherein the Rgroup is substituted with from 0 to 3 Rsubstituents selected from the group consisting of C O OR C O NRR NRR OR SR S O R S O R R halogen F Cl Br I NO CN and N wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from hydrogen Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cheteroalkyl Calkenyl and Ccycloalkyl wherein optionally Rand R together with the nitrogen atom to which each is attached are combined to form a 3 to 6 membered heterocyclic ring comprising 1 to 2 heteroatoms selected from N O and S and Ris selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Ccycloalkyl and if Ris a monocyclic heterocycloalkyl ring then any two Rgroups attached to the same atom of Ris optionally combined to form at 3 to 7 membered carbocyclic or 3 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring comprising 1 to 2 atoms selected from N O and S as ring vertices. In certain aspects of this embodiment Ris substituted with from 0 to 2 Rsubstituents selected from NRR OR and R and when Ris a monocyclic heterocycloalkyl ring then any two Rgroups attached to the same atom of Ris optionally combined to form at 3 to 7 membered carbocyclic or 3 to 7 membered heterocyclic ring comprising 1 to 2 atoms selected from N O and S as ring vertices. In certain aspects of this embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of morpholin 4 yl 3 R methyl morpholin 4 yl 3 S methyl morpholin 4 yl 3 R ethyl morpholin 4 yl 3 S ethyl morpholin 4 yl 3 R isopropyl morpholin 4 yl 3 S isopropyl morpholin 4 yl 3 3 dimethyl morpholin 4 yl 3 4 dihydro 2H pyran 4 yl 3 6 dihydro 2H pyran 4 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 1 4 oxazepan 4 yl piperidin 1 yl 2 oxa 5 azabicyclo 2.2.1 heptan 5 yl 3 oxa 8 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octan 8 yl 4 methoxy piperidin 1 yl and 8 oxa 3 azabicyclo 3.2.1 octan 3 yl. In particular Ris 3 methyl morpholin 4 yl.

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A D is selected from the group consisting of NRC O NRR NRR C O NRR NRC N CN NRR NRC O R NRC O OR NRS O NRRand NRS O R. In certain aspects of this embodiment D is NRC O NRRor NRR wherein Ris hydrogen Rand Rare each independently an optionally substituted group selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Cheteroalkyl Chaloalkyl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl Caryl and Cheteroaryl and Rand R when attached to the same nitrogen atom are optionally combined to form an a 5 to 7 heterocyclic ring or a 5 to 9 membered heteroaryl ring comprising 1 to 3 heteroatoms selected from N O and S as ring vertices and is substituted with from 0 to 3 Rsubstituents.

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A D is NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Ris an optionally substituted Caryl Cheteroaryl or Cheterocycloalkyl. In certain aspects of this embodiment D is NRR wherein Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Ris an optionally substituted Cheterocycloalkyl selected from the group consisting of 

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A D is NRR wherein Rand Rare combined to form an optionally substituted 5 membered heteroaryl ring selected from the group consisting of pyrrolyl pyrazolyl imidazolyl and triazolyl.

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A D is NRC O NRR wherein Ris hydrogen Rand Rare each independently an optionally substituted group selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cheteroalkyl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl a 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl and optionally substituted phenyl. In certain aspects of this embodiment one of Rand Ris hydrogen. In certain aspects of this embodiment Rand Rare each hydrogen and Ris an optionally substituted group selected from Calkyl and Chaloalkyl. In certain aspect of this embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A D is NRC O NRR wherein Rand Rare each hydrogen and Ris ethyl.

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A D is NRC O NRR wherein Ris hydrogen and Ris hydrogen or Calkyl and Ris an optionally substituted group selected from the group consisting of optionally substituted isoxazol 3 yl isoxazol 4 yl isoxazol 5 yl oxazol 2 yl oxazol 4 yl oxazol 5 yl pyrazol 3 yl pyrazol 4 yl pyrazol 5 yl 1 2 3 oxadiazol 4 yl 1 2 3 oxadiazol 5 yl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 2 yl 1 3 4 oxadiazol 5 yl 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 5 pyridyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl 2 oxepanyl 3 oxepanyl 2 tetrahydrofuranyl 3 tetrahydrofuranyl and phenyl. In certain aspects of this embodiment Ris independently substituted with from 0 to 3 substituents selected from F Cl Br I CN R NRRand OR. In certain aspects of this embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I D and a Rsubstituent attached to an atom that is adjacent to the atom to which D is attached are optionally combined to form an optionally substituted 5 to 6 membered heterocyclic or heteroaryl ring substituted with from 0 to 4 Rsubstituents. Within certain aspects of this embodiment the 5 to 6 membered heterocyclic or heteroaryl ring formed from combining D and a Rsubstituent attached to an atom that is adjacent to the atom to which D is attached is selected from the group consisting of optionally substituted imidazolidinone pyrazole imidazole pyrrolidinone and pyrimidine. Within another aspect of this embodiment D and a Rsubstituent attached to an atom that is adjacent to the atom to which D is attached are optionally combined to form an optionally substituted 5 to 6 membered heterocyclic or heteroaryl ring selected from the group consisting of 

In another embodiment in compound of Formula I or I A Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl 5 to 6 membered heteroaryl 3 to 7 membered heterocycloalkyl 3 to 7 membered cycloalkyl wherein Ris substituted with from 0 to 5 Rsubstituents selected from the group consisting of halogen F Cl Br I NRR SR OR C O OR C O NRR C O R NRC O R OC O R NRC O NRR OC O NRR NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR R NO N O CN R X NRR X SR X OR X C O OR X C O NRR X C O R X NRC O R X OC O R X NRC O NRR X OC O NRR X NRS O NRR X S O R X S O NRR X NO X N X CN and X R wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from hydrogen Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cheteroalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl phenyl and CH phenyl optionally Rand R when attached to the same nitrogen atom are combined to form a 3 to 6 membered heterocyclic ring comprising 1 to 2 heteroatoms selected from N O and S Ris selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl phenyl and CH phenyl Xis selected from the group consisting of Calkylene Calkenylene and Calkynylene and Ris selected from the group consisting of phenyl 2 pyridyl 3 pyridyl 4 pyridyl 2 imidazolyl 2 indolyl 1 naphthyl 2 naphthyl 2 thienyl 3 thienyl 2 pyrrolyl 2 furanyl and 3 furanyl and wherein Ris substituted with from 0 to 3 substituents selected from F Cl Br I NRR SR OR S O R S O NRR NO N O CN Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl and Cheteroalkyl and Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Cheteroalkyl a 3 to 6 membered heterocycloalkyl a 3 to 6 membered cycloalkyl and wherein Ris substituted with from 0 to 3 Rsubstituents selected from the group consisting of halogen F Cl Br I NRR SR OR C O OR C O NRR C O R NRC O R OC O R NRC O NRR OC O NRR NRS O NRR S O R S O NRR R NO N O CN X NRR X SR X OR X C O OR X C O NRR X C O R X NRC O R X OC O R X NRC O NRR X OC O NRR X NRS O NRR X S O R X S O NRR X NO X Nand X CN wherein Rand Rare each independently selected from hydrogen Calkyl Chaloalkyl Cheteroalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl phenyl and CH phenyl optionally Rand R when attached to the same nitrogen atom are combined to form a 3 to 6 membered heterocyclic ring comprising 1 to 2 heteroatoms selected from N O and S Ris selected from Calkyl Chaloalkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Ccycloalkyl Cheterocycloalkyl phenyl and CH phenyl and Xis selected from the group consisting of Calkylene Calkenylene and Calkynylene.

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A Ris selected from the group consisting of cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl azetidin 1 yl azetidin 2 yl azetidin 3 yl pyrrolidin 1 yl pyrrolidin 2 yl pyrrolidin 3 yl piperidin 1 yl piperidin 2 yl piperidin 3 yl piperidin 4 yl oxetan 2 yl oxetan 3 yl tetrahydrofuran 2 yl tetrahydrofuran 3 yl tetrahydropyran 2 yl tetrahydropyran 3 yl and tetrahydropyran 4 yl oxepan 2 yl oxepan 3 yl oxepan 4 yl phenyl pyrrol 2 yl pyrrol 3 yl pyrazol 3 yl pyrazol 4 yl pyrazol 5 yl furan 2 yl furan 3 yl thien 2 yl thien 3 yl thiazol 2 yl thiazol 3 yl thiazol 4 yl imidazol 1 yl imidazol 4 yl pyrid 2 yl pyrid 3 yl pyrid 4 yl pyrimidin 1 yl pyrimidin 2 yl pyrimidin 3 yl pyrazin 2 yl pyridazin 2 yl pyridazin 3 yl and triazin 2 yl wherein Ris substituted with from 0 to 3 Rsubstituents and Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen Calkyl Calkenyl Calkynyl Cheteroalkyl and is substituted with from 0 to 3 Rsubstituents. In certain aspects of this embodiment Ris selected from the group consisting of 

In another embodiment in compounds of Formula I or I A Ris selected from the group consisting of hydrogen 

As shown in the Examples section below there are a variety of synthetic routes by which a skilled artisan can prepare compounds of the present invention and the related intermediates used to prepare such compounds. The following schemes illustrate some general methods for the preparation of compounds of the invention and key intermediates. Unless otherwise indicated the abbreviations used in the Schemes below have the following meanings. R alkyl or another non interfering group LG leaving group e.g halide tosylate Cyc carbocycle or heterocycle H Ar aryl or heteroaryl ring LDA lithium diisopropylamide THF tetrahydrofuran X O NP CH CHR CRR P protecting group e.g. BOC and n 1 to 6.

Scheme 1 illustrates a general synthetic method for the synthesis of 2 chloropurine intermediates useful to prepare compounds of Formula I. The substitution of the N 9 nitrogen atom in dichloropurine i by for example alkylation using R LG followed by displacement of the C 6 chloro group with a morpholino or another amino group produces a C 6 amino substituted compound iii. Substitution at the C 8 position of the compound iii by either first halogenating compound iii yields intermediate compound iv. Subsequent palladium mediated cross coupling e.g. a Suzuki coupling of compound iv with an aryl heteroaryl cycloalkyl or heterocycloalkyl boronates provides the C 8 substitution product intermediates i.e. compound v a or v b . Alternatively deprotonation of compound iii using a strong base followed by the quenching the resultant anion with an electrophile such as a cyclic ketone produces other C 8 substitution product intermediates e.g. compound vi. Conversion of hydroxy functional group of compound vi into a fluoro group as in compound vii can be accomplished using a fluorinating reagent such as Diethylaminosulfur trifluoride DAST .

Scheme 2 illustrates a general method of preparing intermediate compounds of the invention in which the order of substitution of N 9 position and C 8 position of the purine is reversed. First the N 9 nitrogen atom of dichloropurine i is protected with a THP protecting group under acidic conditions to form compound viii. Displacement of the C 6 chloro group with a morpholino group or another amino group provides a C 6 amino substituted e.g. morpholino substituted product ix. Alkylation of the C 8 position by deprotonation of compound ix followed by quenching with an electrophile provides compound x. Palladium mediated cross coupling e.g. Suzuki coupling of compound x with an aryl boronate reagent provides the arylated product xi. Removal of the N 9 protecting group under acidic conditions followed by substitution e.g. alkylation using R LG of the resultant N 9 deprotected product xii produces compound xiii. Hydrogenation of the nitro group in compound xiii provides amino intermediate xiv which can be further elaborated into compounds of Formula I using methods further described in the Examples section herein.

Scheme 3 illustrates a general method of elaborating the C 2 position of purine intermediates to provide compounds of the invention. As shown in Scheme 3 A palladium cross coupling reaction using chloro compound xv and phenylurea boronate compound yields urea compound xvi. As shown in Scheme 3 B hydrogenation of compound xvii followed by acylation of the amino compound xviii with triphosgene and reaction of the resultant carbamoyl compound with an amine provides an alternate method for preparing compounds of Formula I with a phenyl urea group. Scheme 3 C illustrates the use of an aryl chloride cross coupling reagent in the palladium mediated cross coupling reaction Buchwald Hartwig coupling to prepare compounds of Formula I.

In addition to one or more of the compounds provided above or stereoisomers geometric isomers tautomers solvates metabolites or pharmaceutically acceptable salts or prodrugs thereof compositions for modulating mTOR activity in humans and animals will typically contain a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient.

The term composition as used herein is intended to encompass a product comprising the specified ingredients in the specified amounts as well as any product which results directly or indirectly from combination of the specified ingredients in the specified amounts. By pharmaceutically acceptable it is meant the carrier diluent or excipient must be compatible with the other ingredients of the formulation and not deleterious to the recipient thereof.

In order to use a compound of this invention for the therapeutic treatment including prophylactic treatment of mammals including humans it is normally formulated in accordance with standard pharmaceutical practice as a pharmaceutical composition. According to this aspect of the invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound of this invention in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or excipient.

A typical formulation is prepared by mixing a compound of the present invention and a carrier diluent or excipient. Suitable carriers diluents and excipients are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as carbohydrates waxes water soluble and or swellable polymers hydrophilic or hydrophobic materials gelatin oils solvents water and the like. The particular carrier diluent or excipient used will depend upon the means and purpose for which a compound of the present invention is being applied. Solvents are generally selected based on solvents recognized by persons skilled in the art as safe GRAS to be administered to a mammal. In general safe solvents are non toxic aqueous solvents such as water and other non toxic solvents that are soluble or miscible in water. Suitable aqueous solvents include water ethanol propylene glycol polyethylene glycols e.g. PEG 400 PEG 300 etc. and mixtures thereof. The formulations can also include one or more buffers stabilizing agents surfactants wetting agents lubricating agents emulsifiers suspending agents preservatives antioxidants opaquing agents glidants processing aids colorants sweeteners perfuming agents flavoring agents and other known additives to provide an elegant presentation of the drug i.e. a compound of the present invention or pharmaceutical composition thereof or aid in the manufacturing of the pharmaceutical product i.e. medicament .

The formulations can be prepared using conventional dissolution and mixing procedures. For example the bulk drug substance i.e. compound of the present invention or stabilized form of the compound e.g. complex with a cyclodextrin derivative or other known complexation agent is dissolved in a suitable solvent in the presence of one or more of the excipients described above. A compound of the present invention is typically formulated into pharmaceutical dosage forms to provide an easily controllable dosage of the drug and to enable patient compliance with the prescribed regimen.

The pharmaceutical composition or formulation for application can be packaged in a variety of ways depending upon the method used for administering the drug. Generally an article for distribution includes a container having deposited therein the pharmaceutical formulation in an appropriate form. Suitable containers are well known to those skilled in the art and include materials such as bottles plastic and glass sachets ampoules plastic bags metal cylinders and the like. The container can also include a tamper proof assemblage to prevent indiscreet access to the contents of the package. In addition the container has deposited thereon a label that describes the contents of the container. The label can also include appropriate warnings.

Pharmaceutical formulations of a compound of the present invention can be prepared for various routes and types of administration. For example a compound of the invention e.g. a compound of Formula I having the desired degree of purity can optionally be mixed with pharmaceutically acceptable diluents carriers excipients or stabilizers see Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Remington the Science and Practice of Pharmacy 2005 21Edition Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. in the form of a lyophilized formulation milled powder or an aqueous solution. Formulation can be conducted by mixing at ambient temperature at the appropriate pH and at the desired degree of purity with physiologically acceptable carriers i.e. carriers that are non toxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed. The pH of the formulation depends mainly on the particular use and the concentration of compound but can range from about 3 to about 8. Formulation in an acetate buffer at pH 5 is a suitable embodiment.

A compound of this invention e.g. compound of Formula I for use herein is preferably sterile. In particular formulations to be used for in vivo administration must be sterile. Such sterilization is readily accomplished by filtration through sterile filtration membranes.

A compound of the invention ordinarily can be stored as a solid composition a lyophilized formulation or as an aqueous solution.

A pharmaceutical composition of the invention will be formulated dosed and administered in a fashion i.e. amounts concentrations schedules course vehicles and route of administration consistent with good medical practice. Factors for consideration in this context include the particular disorder being treated the particular mammal being treated the clinical condition of the individual patient the cause of the disorder the site of delivery of the agent the method of administration the scheduling of administration and other factors known to medical practitioners. The therapeutically effective amount of the compound to be administered will be governed by such considerations and is the minimum amount necessary to prevent ameliorate or treat the coagulation factor mediated disorder. Such amount is preferably below the amount that is toxic to the host or renders the host significantly more susceptible to bleeding.

As a general proposition the initial pharmaceutically effective amount of an inhibitor compound of the invention administered parenterally per dose will be in the range of about 0.01 100 mg kg namely about 0.1 to 20 mg kg of patient body weight per day with the typical initial range of compound used being 0.3 to 15 mg kg day.

Acceptable diluents carriers excipients and stabilizers are nontoxic to recipients at the dosages and concentrations employed and include buffers such as phosphate citrate and other organic acids antioxidants including ascorbic acid and methionine preservatives such as octadecyldimethylbenzyl ammonium chloride hexamethonium chloride benzalkonium chloride benzethonium chloride phenol butyl or benzyl alcohol alkyl parabens such as methyl or propyl paraben catechol resorcinol cyclohexanol 3 pentanol and m cresol low molecular weight less than about 10 residues polypeptides proteins such as serum albumin gelatin or immunoglobulins hydrophilic polymers such as polyvinylpyrrolidone amino acids such as glycine glutamine asparagine histidine arginine or lysine monosaccharides disaccharides and other carbohydrates including glucose mannose or dextrins chelating agents such as EDTA sugars such as sucrose mannitol trehalose or sorbitol salt forming counter ions such as sodium metal complexes e.g. Zn protein complexes and or non ionic surfactants such as TWEEN PLURONICS or polyethylene glycol PEG . A active pharmaceutical ingredient of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I can also be entrapped in microcapsules prepared for example by coacervation techniques or by interfacial polymerization for example hydroxymethylcellulose or gelatin microcapsules and poly methylmethacylate microcapsules respectively in colloidal drug delivery systems for example liposomes albumin microspheres microemulsions nano particles and nanocapsules or in macroemulsions. Such techniques are disclosed in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Remington the Science and Practice of Pharmacy 2005 21Edition Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa.

Sustained release preparations of a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I can be prepared. Suitable examples of sustained release preparations include semipermeable matrices of solid hydrophobic polymers containing a compound of Formula I which matrices are in the form of shaped articles e.g. films or microcapsules. Examples of sustained release matrices include polyesters hydrogels for example poly 2 hydroxyethyl methacrylate or poly vinyl alcohol polylactides U.S. Pat. No. 3 773 919 copolymers of L glutamic acid and gamma ethyl L glutamate non degradable ethylene vinyl acetate degradable lactic acid glycolic acid copolymers such as the LUPRON DEPOT injectable microspheres composed of lactic acid glycolic acid copolymer and leuprolide acetate and poly D 3 hydroxybutyric acid.

The formulations include those suitable for the administration routes detailed herein. The formulations can conveniently be presented in unit dosage form and can be prepared by any of the methods well known in the art of pharmacy. Techniques and formulations generally are found in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Remington the Science and Practice of Pharmacy 2005 21Edition Lippincott Williams Wilkins Philadelphia Pa. Such methods include the step of bringing into association the active ingredient with the carrier which constitutes one or more accessory ingredients. In general the formulations are prepared by uniformly and intimately bringing into association the active ingredient with liquid carriers or finely divided solid carriers or both and then if necessary shaping the product.

Formulations of a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I suitable for oral administration can be prepared as discrete units such as pills capsules cachets or tablets each containing a predetermined amount of a compound of the invention.

Compressed tablets can be prepared by compressing in a suitable machine the active ingredient in a free flowing form such as a powder or granules optionally mixed with a binder lubricant inert diluent preservative surface active or dispersing agent. Molded tablets can be made by molding in a suitable machine a mixture of the powdered active ingredient moistened with an inert liquid diluent. The tablets can optionally be coated or scored and optionally are formulated so as to provide slow or controlled release of the active ingredient therefrom.

Tablets troches lozenges aqueous or oil suspensions dispersible powders or granules emulsions hard or soft capsules e.g. gelatin capsules syrups or elixirs can be prepared for oral use. Formulations of a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I intended for oral use can be prepared according to any method known to the art for the manufacture of pharmaceutical compositions and such compositions can contain one or more agents including sweetening agents flavoring agents coloring agents and preserving agents in order to provide a palatable preparation. Tablets containing the active ingredient in admixture with non toxic pharmaceutically acceptable excipient which are suitable for manufacture of tablets are acceptable. These excipients can be for example inert diluents such as calcium or sodium carbonate lactose calcium or sodium phosphate granulating and disintegrating agents such as maize starch or alginic acid binding agents such as starch gelatin or acacia and lubricating agents such as magnesium stearate stearic acid or talc. Tablets can be uncoated or can be coated by known techniques including microencapsulation to delay disintegration and adsorption in the gastrointestinal tract and thereby provide a sustained action over a longer period. For example a time delay material such as glyceryl monostearate or glyceryl distearate alone or with a wax can be employed.

For treatment of the eye or other external tissues e.g. mouth and skin the formulations are preferably applied as a topical ointment or cream containing the active ingredient s in an amount of for example 0.075 to 20 w w. When formulated in an ointment the active ingredient can be employed with either a paraffinic or a water miscible ointment base. Alternatively the active ingredients can be formulated in a cream with an oil in water cream base.

If desired the aqueous phase of the cream base can include a polyhydric alcohol i.e. an alcohol having two or more hydroxyl groups such as propylene glycol butane 1 3 diol mannitol sorbitol glycerol and polyethylene glycol including PEG 400 and mixtures thereof. The topical formulations can desirably include a compound which enhances absorption or penetration of the active ingredient through the skin or other affected areas. Examples of such dermal penetration enhancers include dimethyl sulfoxide and related analogs.

The oily phase of the emulsions of this invention can be constituted from known ingredients in a known manner. While the phase can comprise merely an emulsifier it desirably comprises a mixture of at least one emulsifier with a fat or an oil or with both a fat and an oil. Preferably a hydrophilic emulsifier is included together with a lipophilic emulsifier which acts as a stabilizer. It is also preferred to include both an oil and a fat. Together the emulsifier s with or without stabilizer s make up the so called emulsifying wax and the wax together with the oil and fat make up the so called emulsifying ointment base which forms the oily dispersed phase of the cream formulations. Emulsifiers and emulsion stabilizers suitable for use in the formulation of the invention include Tween 60 Span 80 cetostearyl alcohol benzyl alcohol myristyl alcohol glyceryl mono stearate and sodium lauryl sulfate.

Aqueous suspensions of a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I contain the active materials in admixture with excipients suitable for the manufacture of aqueous suspensions. Such excipients include a suspending agent such as sodium carboxymethylcellulose croscarmellose povidone methylcellulose hydroxypropyl methylcellulose sodium alginate polyvinylpyrrolidone gum tragacanth and gum acacia and dispersing or wetting agents such as a naturally occurring phosphatide e.g. lecithin a condensation product of an alkylene oxide with a fatty acid e.g. polyoxyethylene stearate a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a long chain aliphatic alcohol e.g. heptadecaethyleneoxycetanol a condensation product of ethylene oxide with a partial ester derived from a fatty acid and a hexitol anhydride e.g. polyoxyethylene sorbitan monooleate . The aqueous suspension can also contain one or more preservatives such as ethyl or n propyl p hydroxybenzoate one or more coloring agents one or more flavoring agents and one or more sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin.

A pharmaceutical composition of a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I can be in the form of a sterile injectable preparation such as a sterile injectable aqueous or oleaginous suspension. This suspension can be formulated according to the known art using those suitable dispersing or wetting agents and suspending agents which have been mentioned above. The sterile injectable preparation can also be a sterile injectable solution or suspension in a non toxic parenterally acceptable diluent or solvent such as a solution in 1 3 butanediol or prepared as a lyophilized powder. Among the acceptable vehicles and solvents that can be employed are water Ringer s solution and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils can conventionally be employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed oil can be employed including synthetic mono or diglycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid can likewise be used in the preparation of injectables.

The amount of active ingredient that can be combined with the carrier material to produce a single dosage form will vary depending upon the host treated and the particular mode of administration. For example a time release formulation intended for oral administration to humans can contain approximately 1 to 1000 mg of active material compounded with an appropriate and convenient amount of carrier material which can vary from about 5 to about 95 of the total compositions weight weight . The pharmaceutical composition can be prepared to provide easily measurable amounts for administration. For example an aqueous solution intended for intravenous infusion can contain from about 3 to 500 g of the active ingredient per milliliter of solution in order that infusion of a suitable volume at a rate of about 30 mL hr can occur.

Formulations suitable for parenteral administration include aqueous and non aqueous sterile injection solutions which can contain anti oxidants buffers bacteriostats and solutes which render the formulation isotonic with the blood of the intended recipient and aqueous and non aqueous sterile suspensions which can include suspending agents and thickening agents.

Formulations suitable for topical administration to the eye also include eye drops wherein the active ingredient is dissolved or suspended in a suitable carrier especially an aqueous solvent for the active ingredient. The active ingredient is preferably present in such formulations in a concentration of about 0.5 to 20 w w for example about 0.5 to 10 w w for example about 1.5 w w.

Formulations suitable for topical administration in the mouth include lozenges comprising the active ingredient in a flavored basis usually sucrose and acacia or tragacanth pastilles comprising the active ingredient in an inert basis such as gelatin and glycerin or sucrose and acacia and mouthwashes comprising the active ingredient in a suitable liquid carrier.

Formulations for rectal administration can be presented as a suppository with a suitable base comprising for example cocoa butter or a salicylate.

Formulations suitable for intrapulmonary or nasal administration have a particle size for example in the range of 0.1 to 500 microns including particle sizes in a range between 0.1 and 500 microns in increments microns such as 0.5 1 30 microns 35 microns etc. which is administered by rapid inhalation through the nasal passage or by inhalation through the mouth so as to reach the alveolar sacs. Suitable formulations include aqueous or oily solutions of the active ingredient. Formulations suitable for aerosol or dry powder administration can be prepared according to conventional methods and can be delivered with other therapeutic agents such as compounds heretofore used in the treatment or prophylaxis disorders as described below.

Formulations suitable for vaginal administration can be presented as pessaries tampons creams gels pastes foams or spray formulations containing in addition to the active ingredient such carriers as are known in the art to be appropriate.

The formulations can be packaged in unit dose or multi dose containers for example sealed ampoules and vials and can be stored in a freeze dried lyophilized condition requiring only the addition of the sterile liquid carrier for example water for injection immediately prior to use. Extemporaneous injection solutions and suspensions are prepared from sterile powders granules and tablets of the kind previously described. Preferred unit dosage formulations are those containing a daily dose or unit daily sub dose as herein above recited or an appropriate fraction thereof of the active ingredient.

The invention further provides veterinary compositions comprising at least one active ingredient e.g. compound of Formula I as above defined together with a veterinary carrier therefore. Veterinary carriers are materials useful for the purpose of administering the composition and can be solid liquid or gaseous materials which are otherwise inert or acceptable in the veterinary art and are compatible with the active ingredient. These veterinary compositions can be administered parenterally orally or by any other desired route.

In another aspect the present invention provides for a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug thereof that inhibits the activity of mTOR kinase. In one embodiment a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug thereof inhibits the activity of mTORC1 and mTORC2. In another embodiment a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug thereof inhibits the activity of mTORC 1. In another embodiment a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug thereof inhibits the activity of mTORC2. In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 or 1000 more selective at inhibiting the activity of mTORC1 over mTORC2. In certain other embodiment a compound of Formula I is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 or 1000 more selective at inhibiting the activity of mTORC2 over mTORC1. In certain embodiment the compounds of the invention are more selected at inhibiting the activity of mTORC1 and or mTORC2 over the related PI3 lipid kinases. In certain embodiments a compound of Formula I is 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 25 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 or 1000 more selective at inhibiting the activity of and mTOR kinase e.g. mTORC1 mTORC2 over a PI3K lipid kinase. In each of the above embodiment in one particular aspect a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof is formulated as a pharmaceutical composition.

The present invention further provides for a method of inhibiting the activity of mTOR kinase in a cell comprising contacting said cell with an effective amount of an active compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. The present invention further provides for a method of inhibiting cell proliferation comprising contacting the cell with a compound of Formula I or a subgenus thereof. Such methods can be practiced in vitro or in vivo.

A compound of the present invention or stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug thereof is useful for treating diseases conditions and or disorders including but not limited to those characterized by over expression of PIKK kinases e.g. mTOR kinase. Accordingly another aspect of this invention includes methods of treating diseases or conditions that can be treated by inhibiting mTOR kinase. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to a mammal in need thereof a therapeutically effective amount of a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or a stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof. In the above embodiment in one particular aspect a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug thereof is formulated as a pharmaceutical composition.

The compounds of the invention can be administered by any route appropriate to the condition to be treated. Suitable routes include oral parenteral including subcutaneous intramuscular intravenous intraarterial intradermal intrathecal and epidural transdermal rectal nasal topical including buccal and sublingual vaginal intraperitoneal intrapulmonary and intranasal. For local immunosuppressive treatment the compounds can be administered by intralesional administration including perfusing or otherwise contacting the graft with the inhibitor before transplantation. It will be appreciated that the preferred route can vary with for example the condition of the recipient. Where the compound is administered orally it can be formulated as a pill capsule tablet etc. with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Where the compound is administered parenterally it can be formulated with a pharmaceutically acceptable parenteral vehicle and in a unit dosage injectable form as detailed below.

A dose to treat mammal e.g. human can range from about 10 mg to about 1000 mg of a Formula I compound. A typical dose can be about 100 mg to about 300 mg of the compound. A dose can be administered once a day QID twice per day BID or more frequently depending on the pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties including absorption distribution metabolism and excretion of the particular compound. In addition toxicity factors can influence the dosage and administration regimen. When administered orally the pill capsule or tablet can be ingested daily or less frequently for a specified period of time. The regimen can be repeated for a number of cycles of therapy.

Diseases and conditions treatable according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to cancer stroke diabetes hepatomegaly cardiovascular disease Alzheimer s disease cystic fibrosis viral disease autoimmune diseases atherosclerosis restenosis psoriasis allergic disorders inflammation neurological disorders a hormone related disease conditions associated with organ transplantation immunodeficiency disorders destructive bone disorders proliferative disorders infectious diseases conditions associated with cell death thrombin induced platelet aggregation chronic myelogenous leukemia CML liver disease Peutz Jegher syndrome Tuberous Sclerosis pathologic immune conditions involving T cell activation CNS disorders in a patient and aging. In one embodiment a human patient is treated with a compound of a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier adjuvant or vehicle wherein a compound of the invention is present in an amount to detectably inhibit mTOR kinase activity.

Cancers which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to breast ovary cervix prostate testis genitourinary tract esophagus larynx glioblastoma neuroblastoma stomach skin keratoacanthoma lung epidermoid carcinoma large cell carcinoma non small cell lung carcinoma NSCLC small cell carcinoma lung adenocarcinoma bone colon adenoma pancreas adenocarcinoma thyroid follicular carcinoma undifferentiated carcinoma papillary carcinoma seminoma melanoma sarcoma bladder carcinoma liver carcinoma and biliary passages kidney carcinoma myeloid disorders lymphoid disorders hairy cells buccal cavity and pharynx oral lip tongue mouth pharynx small intestine colon rectum large intestine rectum brain and central nervous system Hodgkin s and leukemia. In certain embodiment compounds of the invention are useful for the treatment of cancer selected from the group consisting of breast NSCLC small cell carcinoma liver carcinoma lymphoid disorders sarcoma colon rectum rectum and leukemia.

Cardiovascular diseases which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to restenosis cardiomegaly atherosclerosis myocardial infarction and congestive heart failure.

Neurodegenerative disease which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to Alzheimer s disease Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis Huntington s disease and cerebral ischemia and neurodegenerative disease caused by traumatic injury glutamate neurotoxicity and hypoxia.

Inflammatory diseases which can be treated according to the methods of this invention include but are not limited to rheumatoid arthritis psoriasis contact dermatitis and delayed hypersensitivity reactions.

Another aspect of this invention provides a compound of the invention or stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in the treatment of the diseases or conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disease or condition. Also provided is the use of a compound of this invention or stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt or prodrug thereof in the preparation of a medicament for the treatment of the diseases and conditions described herein in a mammal for example a human suffering from such disorder.

In one embodiment a compound of the invention e.g. compound of Formula I or stereoisomer geometric isomer tautomer solvate metabolite or pharmaceutically acceptable salt prodrug thereof is used as an anticancer agent or as an adjunct agent for the treatment of cancer in a combination therapy. One of ordinary skill in the art is readily able to determine whether or not a candidate compound treats a cancerous condition for any particular cell type either alone or in combination. Within certain aspects of this embodiment compounds of the invention are used in adjunct with other therapies including conventional surgery radiotherapy and chemotherapy for the treatment of cancer. Such chemotherapy can include but are not limited to one or more of the chemotherapeutic agents described herein.

The combination therapy can be administered as a simultaneous or sequential regimen. When administered sequentially the combination can be administered in two or more administrations. The combined administration includes coadministration using separate formulations or a single pharmaceutical formulation and consecutive administration in either order wherein preferably there is a time period while both or all active agents simultaneously exert their biological activities.

Suitable dosages for any of the above coadministered agents are those presently used and can be lowered due to the combined action synergy of the newly identified agent and other chemotherapeutic agents or treatments.

The combination therapy can provide synergy and prove synergistic i.e. the effect achieved when the active ingredients used together is greater than the sum of the effects that results from using the compounds separately. A synergistic effect can be attained when the active ingredients are 1 co formulated and administered or delivered simultaneously in a combined unit dosage formulation 2 delivered by alternation or in parallel as separate formulations or 3 by some other regimen. When delivered in alternation therapy a synergistic effect can be attained when the compounds are administered or delivered sequentially e.g. by different injections in separate syringes separate pills or capsules or in separate infusions. In general during alternation therapy an effective dosage of each active ingredient is administered sequentially i.e. serially whereas in combination therapy effective dosages of two or more active ingredients are administered together.

These examples are not intended to limit the scope of the present invention but rather to provide guidance to a skilled artisan to prepare and use the compounds compositions and methods of the present invention. While particular embodiments of the present invention are described the skilled artisan will appreciate that various changes and modifications can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

The chemical reactions in the Examples described can be readily adapted to prepare a number of other mTOR inhibitors of the invention and alternative methods for preparing the compounds of this invention are deemed to be within the scope of this invention. For example the synthesis of non exemplified compounds according to the invention can be successfully performed by modifications apparent to those skilled in the art e.g. by appropriately protecting interfering groups by utilizing other suitable reagents known in the art other than those described and or by making routine modifications of reaction conditions. Alternatively other reactions disclosed herein or known in the art will be recognized as having applicability for preparing other compounds of the invention. Accordingly the following examples are provided to illustrate but not limit the invention.

In the Examples described below unless otherwise indicated all temperatures are set forth in degrees Celsius. Commercially available reagents were purchased from suppliers such as Aldrich Chemical Company Lancaster TCI or Maybridge and were used without further purification unless otherwise indicated. The reactions set forth below were done generally under a positive pressure of nitrogen or argon or with a drying tube unless otherwise stated in anhydrous solvents and the reaction flasks were typically fitted with rubber septa for the introduction of substrates and reagents via syringe. Glassware was oven dried and or heat dried. Column chromatography was conducted on a Biotage system Manufacturer Dyax Corporation having a silica gel column or on a silica SEP PAK cartridge Waters or alternatively column chromatography was carried out using on an ISCO chromatography system Manufacturer Teledyne ISCO having a silica gel column. H NMR spectra were recorded on a Varian instrument operating at 400 MHz. H NMR spectra were obtained in deuterated CDCl d DMSO CHOD or d acetone solutions reported in ppm using chloroform as the reference standard 7.25 ppm . When peak multiplicities are reported the following abbreviations are used s singlet d doublet t triplet m multiplet br broadened dd doublet of doublets dt doublet of triplets . Coupling constants when given are reported in Hertz Hz .

When possible product formed in the reaction mixtures were monitored by LC MS. High Pressure Liquid Chromatography Mass Spectrometry LCMS experiments to determine retention times R and associated mass ions were performed using one of the following methods. Method A Experiments performed on a PE Sciex API 150 EX quadrupole mass spectrometer linked to a Shimadzu LC 10AD LC system with diode array detector and 225 position autosampler using a Kromasil C18 50 4.6 mm column and a 3 ml minute flow rate. The solvent system was a gradient starting with 100 water with 0.05 TFA solvent A and 0 acetonitrile with 0.0375 TFA solvent B ramping up to 10 solvent A and 90 solvent B over 4 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 0.50 minutes. Method B Experiments performed on an Agilent Technologies liquid chromatography mass spectrometer linked to an Agilent Technologies Series 1200 LC system with diode array detector using a Zorbax 1.8 micron SB C18 30 2.1 mm column with a 1.5 ml minute flow rate. Method B1 The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent B followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over 1.5 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute. Method B2 The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent B followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over 3.0 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute. Method C Experiments performed on an Agilent Technologies liquid chromatography mass spectrometer linked to an Agilent Technologies Series 1200 LC system with diode array detector using a Zorbax 1.8 micron SB C18 30 2.1 mm column with a 0.6 ml minute flow rate. The initial solvent system was 95 water containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent A and 5 acetonitrile containing 0.05 trifluoroacetic acid solvent B followed by a gradient up to 5 solvent A and 95 solvent B over 9.0 minutes. The final solvent system was held constant for a further 1 minute. The products formed in the reaction mixtures can be purified by reverse phase high pressure liquid chromatography RP HPLC using the following conditions Reverse phase HPLC was conducted on Gemini NX column 100 30 mm 10 micron 5 85 ACN over 10 min. gradient either 0.1 FA or 0.1 NH4OH at 60 ml min 254 nm or on Zymor Pegasus column 150 21.2 mm 5 micron 5 60 Methanol at 70 ml min 254 nm.

All abbreviations used to described reagents reaction conditions or equipment used are consistent with the definitions set forth in the List of standard abbreviations and acronyms published yearly by the Journal of Organic Chemistry an American Chemical Society journal . The chemical names of discrete compounds of the invention were obtained using the structure naming feature ChemBioDraw Version 11.0 or from Accelrys Pipeline Pilot IUPAC compound naming program.

To a solution of 2 6 dichloropurine 1.10 g 5.82 mmol in anhydrous THF 5.0 mL was added tetra n butylammonium fluoride 0.58 mL 10.58 mmol 1.8 eq 1M in THF . Methyl iodide 0.40 mL 6.42 mmol 1.1 eq was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT under Nfor 30 minutes. The reaction mixture was then diluted with ethyl acetate 250 mL . The organic layer was washed with aqueous saturated sodium thiosulfate solution water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 5 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexane to give 2 6 dichloro 9 methyl 9H purine a 2 as a white solid 780 mg 66 followed by gradient 0 to 30 methanol in ethyl acetate to give 2 6 dichloro 7 methyl 7H purine a 3 as a white solid 346 mg 29.3 . H NMR of 2 6 dichloro 9 methyl 9H purine DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.75 s 1H 3.83 s 3H . H NMR of 2 6 dichloro 7 methyl 7H purine DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.80 s 1H 4.09 s 3H .

To a stirred solution of 2 6 dichloro 9 methyl 9H purine 1.41 g 6.96 mmol and S 3 methylmorpholine 817 mg 8.08 mmol 1.16 eq. in anhydrous ethanol 60 mL and anhydrous DMF 5.0 mL was added N N diisopropylethylamine 1.8 mL 10.43 mmol 1.5 eq. and the reaction mixture was stirred at RT under Nfor 3 days. The reaction mixture was diluted with 1 1 v v diethyl ether ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous sodium bicarbonate solution water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the desired compound a 4 as a solid 1.59 g 85.2 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 7.65 s 1H 5.34 broad d 2H 3.99 m 1 3.76 m 5H 3.61 ddd 1H 3.36 broad s 1H 1.39 d 3H .

To S 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine 750.0 mg 2.80 mmol in anhydrous THF 16 mL at 78 C. under Nwas added freshly prepared lithium diisopropylamide in THF 2.0 eq . The resultant wine colored reaction was stirred at 78 C. After 1 h iodine monochloride in dichloromethane 4.2 mL 4.2 mmol 1.0 M 1.5 eq. was added and stirred at RT for 16 h. The reaction mixture was quenched with saturated aqueous sodium thiosulfate. Volatile solvent was then evaporated in vacuo and the crude was diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the desired compound as a solid 446.4 mg 40.5 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 5.28 broad s 2H 3.99 m 1H 3.75 m 2H 3.67 s 3H 3.59 m 1H 3.49 broad s 1H 1.38 d 3H LC MS m z method A 394 396 M H R 1.92 min.

In a high pressure vessel was placed S 4 2 chloro 8 iodo 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine 78.2 mg 0.20 mmol cyclopropylboronic acid 25.8 mg 0.30 mmol 1.5 eq. potassium phosphate 127.4 mg 0.60 mmol 3.0 eq. 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II complexed with dichloromethane 1 1 4.9 mg 0.006 mmol 0.03 eq. and 1 4 dioxane 1.0 mL . The reaction mixture was degassed for 15 minutes. The vessel tube was sealed tightly and the reaction mixture was stirred at 100 C. After 18 h the reaction was cooled to RT and diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 80 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the desired compound as a foam 43.7 mg 71 . TLC 40 ethyl acetate hexane Rf 0.41 LC MS m z method B2 308 M H R 1.94 min.

To S 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine 100.0 mg 0.374 mmol in anhydrous THF 4.0 mL at 78 C. under Nwas added freshly prepared lithium diisopropylamide in THF 2.0 eq. and the reaction mixture was stirred at 78 C. After stirring for 2 h tetrahydro 4H pyran 4 one 68.6 L 0.75 mmol 2.0 eq. was added. The reaction was then stirred at RT for 16 h and quenched with saturated aqueous sodium ammonium chloride solution. Volatile solvent was evaporated in vacuo and the crude was diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 5 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexane . Crystallization from ether hexane afforded the product b 1 as a solid 111.3 mg 81.0 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz . ppm 5.3 broad s 1H 4.98 broad s 1H 4.00 dd J 3.4 Hz 1H 3.97 to 3.79 m 7H 3.79 to 3.71 m 2H 3.60 td J 11.6 2.7 Hz 1H 3.45 broad s 1H 2.39 m 2H 1.86 d J 13.2 Hz 2H 1.38 d J 6.8 Hz 3H LC MS m z method A 368 370 M H R 1.93 min.

This compound c 1 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol using tert butyl 3 oxoazetidine 1 carboxylate as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 5.17 broad d 2H 4.56 dd J 16.9 9.48 Hz 2H 4.21 dd J 9.48. 2.56 Hz 1H 4.04 to 3.96 m 1H 3.82 to 3.71 m 5H 3.59 td J 11.6 2.6 Hz 1H 3.47 broad s 1H 2.02 s 1H 1.43 s 9H 1.40 to 1.36 m 4H LC MS method A 439 441 M H R 2.56 min.

This compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol using 3 oxetanone as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 5.35 broad s 2H 5.15 t J 6.9 Hz 2H 4.96 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 4.00 dd J 11.2 3 Hz 1H 3.84 s 3H 3.81 to 3.71 m 2H 3.59 td J 11.6 2.7 Hz 1H 3.47 broad s 1H 1.39 d J 6.8 Hz 3H LC MS m z method B2 340 342 M H R 1.59 min.

To a stirred solution of S 3 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl oxetan 3 ol 127.6 mg 0.364 mmol in anhydrous DCM 8.0 mL at 78 C. under Nwas added diethylaminosulfur trifluoride 59.5 L 0.436 mmol 1.2 eq. . The reaction mixture was warmed to 0 C. over 3 h stirred at RT for 2 h and quenched with 1N sodium hydroxide solution. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate. The two phases were separated and the organic layer was washed with water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the product as a foam 79.6 mg 62.0 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 6.10 to 4.40 broad s 2H 5.30 to 5.19 m 2H 5.10 dd J 20.7 7.8 Hz 2H 4.04 to 3.98 m 1H 3.83 to 3.73 m 2H 3.68 d J 1.5 Hz 3H 3.61 td J 11.6 2.8 Hz 1H 3.48 broad s 1H 1.40 d J 6.8 Hz 3H LC MS m z method A 342 M H R 2.36 min.

The compounds were prepared in an analogous fashion to 2 6 dichloro 9 methyl 9H purine and 2 6 dichloro 7 methyl 7H purine respectively replacing iodomethane with iodoethane to produce f 2 and f 3 . H NMR of 2 6 dichloro 9 ethyl 9H purine f 2 DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.77 s 1H 4.28 q 2H 1.44 t 3H . H NMR of 2 6 dichloro 7 ethyl 7H purine DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.91 s 1H 4.49 q 2H 1.46 t 3H .

The compound f 4 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine using 2 6 dichloro 9 ethyl 9H purine as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 7.71 s 1H 5.41 broad s 1H 5.00 broad s 1H 4.19 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 4.00 dd J 7.8 3.6 Hz 1H 3.76 m 2H 3.61 td J 11.6 2.6 Hz 1H 3.48 broad s 1H 1.48 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.41 d J 6.8 Hz 3H LCMS m z method A 284 M H R 2.06 min.

To S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine 465.0 mg 1.65 mmol in anhydrous THF 6.7 mL at 78 C. under Nwas added freshly prepared lithium diisopropylamide in THF 2.0 eq . The reaction was stirred at 78 C. under Nfor 2 hours and 1 chloro 2 iodoethane 1.01 g 5.78 mmol 3.5 eq. was added. The reaction mixture was then stirred at RT for 3 days and then quenched with saturated aqueous sodium ammonium chloride solution at 0 C. Volatile solvent was then evaporated in vacuo and the crude was diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with a saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexane to give the desired compound as a foam 610.0 mg 90.7 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 5.28 broad s 2H 4.17 q J 7.4 Hz 2H 4.00 dd J 11.3 3.4 Hz 1H 3.75 m 2H 3.59 m 1H 3.48 broad s 1H 1.37 m 6H LC MS m z method B2 408 M H R 2.06 min.

The compound f 1 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 8 cyclopropyl 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine using S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 8 iodo 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 5.31 broad s 1H 5.00 broad s 1H 4.26 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.97 dd J 11.3 3.4 Hz 1H 3.74 m 2H 3.58 td J 12.2 2.7 1H 3.43 broad t 1H 1.92 m 1H 1.41 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.34 d J 6.2 Hz 3H 1.12 m 2H 1.06 m 2H LC MS m z method A 322 M H R 2.81 min.

This compound g 1 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol using S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 5.65 to 4.75 broad d 2H 4.46 q 2H 4.05 to 3.85 m 5H 3.83 to 3.73 m 2H 3.62 dt J 11.6 Hz 2.6 Hz 1H 3.55 to 3.39 broad s 1H 2.59 s 1H 2.46 to 2.34 m 2H 1.87 d J 12.8 Hz 2H 1.45 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.40 d J 6.8 Hz 3H LC MS m z method B2 382 384 M H R 1.79 min.

This compound h 1 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 8 3 fluorooxetan 3 yl 9 methyl 9H pur in 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine using S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 5.90 to 4.60 broad s 2H 4.37 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 4.02 dd J 11.4 Hz 3.4 Hz 1H 3.98 to 3.86 m 4H 3.78 dt J 11.7 Hz 7.1 Hz 2H 3.62 td J 11.9 Hz 2.8 Hz 1H 3.48 d J 7.0 Hz 1H 2.55 to 2.35 m 2H 2.22 to 2.06 m 2H 1.43 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.40 d J 6.8 Hz 3H LC MS m z method B2 384 M H R 2.10 min.

This compound i j was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol using 3 oxetanone as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 5.70 to 4.70 broad s 2H 5.20 dd J 12.1 Hz 7.2 Hz 2H 4.95 d J 7.2 Hz 2H 4.31 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 4.02 dd J 11.3 3.2 Hz 1H 3.78 dt J 11.7 Hz 7.2 Hz 2H 3.61 td J 11.9 Hz 2.7 Hz 1H 3.47 s 2H 1.46 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.41 d J 6.8 Hz 3H LC MS m z method B2 354 356 M H R 1.71 min.

This compound was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 4 2 chloro 8 3 fluorooxetan 3 yl 9 methyl 9H pur in 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine using S 3 2 chloro 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl oxetan 3 ol as the starting material. LC MS m z method C 356 358 M H R 2.62 min TLC 1 1 heptane ethyl acetate R 0.58.

In a 5 mL microwave vessel equipped with a stirbar was placed S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 8 iodo 9H purin 6 yl 3 methyl morpholine 30 mg 0.074 mmol 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyrimidine 22.7 mg 0.110 mmol 1.5 eq. potassium phosphate 46.9 mg 0.22 mmol 3.0 eq. 1 1 bis diphenylphosphino ferrocene dichloropalladium II complex with dichloromethane 1 1 3.0 mg 0.0037 mmol 0.05 eq. and degassed 1 4 dioxane 3.0 mL . The microwave tube was capped and the reaction mixture was heated under microwave irradiation 300 watts 120 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 10 mL and filtered through a pad of Celite. The organic layer was washed with water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to give the desired compound k 1 as a foam 20.6 mg 77.8 . H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 9.34 s 1H 9.13 s 2H 6.00 to 4.60 broad s 2H 4.42 to 4.28 m 2H 4.11 to 3.97 m 1H 3.87 to 3.72 m 2H 3.71 to 3.59 m 1H 3.59 to 3.40 broad s 1H 1.51 to 39 m 6H LC MS m z method A R 2.21 min M H 360.

To a mixture of 2 bromo 6 benzyloxypyridine 1.10 g 4.15 mmol and 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl aniline 1.00 g 4.57 mmol 1.1 eq. in tert butyl alcohol 20 mL was added sodium tert butoxide 556 mg 5.78 mmol 1.40 eq. 2 dicyclohexylphosphino 2 N N dimethylamino biphenyl 98 mg 0.25 mmol 0.06 eq. and bis dibenzylideneacetone palladium 0 96 mg 0.17 mmol 0.04 eq. . The reaction mixture was purged with nitrogen for a few minutes and the dark orange reaction mixture was heated under microwave irradiation 300 watts 120 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction was quenched with 10 aqueous citric acid and poured into ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to give the desired product l 1 1.08 g 65 yield as slightly brown solid. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 7.75 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.49 to 7.41 m 3H 7.41 to 7.34 m 4H 7.34 to 7.27 m 1H 6.46 s 1H 6.44 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.30 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 5.37 s 2H 1.34 s 12H .

In a 5 mL microwave vessel equipped with a stirbar was placed S 3 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl oxetan 3 ol 100 mg 0.29 mmol 4 ethylureido phenyl boronic acid pinacol ester 104.2 mg 0.36 mmol 1.22 eq. tetrakis triphenylphosphine palladium 0 21.0 mg 0.018 mmol 0.062 eq. sodium carbonate 47.7 mg 0.45 mmol 1.53 eq. and potassium acetate 47.0 mg 0.48 mmol 1.63 eq. . Degassed acetonitrile 3.6 mL and water 1.2 mL were added. The microwave vial was capped and the reaction mixture was heated under microwave irradiation 300 watts 120 C. for 15 minutes. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate 10 mL and filtered through a pad of Celite . The organic layer was washed with water and brine then dried NaSO filtered and evaporated in vacuo. The resultant residue was purified by reverse phase HPLC to give the title compound m 1 as a white solid 76.8 mg 55.8 . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.62 s 1H 8.27 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.87 s 1H 6.14 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 5.46 broad s 1H 5.23 to 5.06 m 3H 4.78 d J 6.6 Hz 2H 4.01 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 3.84 to 3.77 m 1H 3.73 dd J 11.0 Hz 2.3 Hz 1H 3.71 s 3H 3.62 to 3.52 m 1H 3.51 to 3.39 m 1H 3.18 to 3.07 m 2H 1.34 t J 7.7 Hz 3H 1.07 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 468.2 M H R 3.77 min.

The title compound n 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol the title compound n 1 was obtained. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.65 s 1H 8.26 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.17 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 5.74 s 1H 5.45 broad s 1H 5.07 broad s 1H 4.00 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3.95 s 3H 3.85 to 3.66 m 6H 3.56 t J 10.6 Hz 1H 3.48 to 3.35 m 1H 3.17 to 3.07 m 2H 2.28 to 2.12 m 2H 1.89 d J 13.6 Hz 2H 1.32 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 496.3 M H R 3.94 min.

The title compound o 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 8 cyclopropyl 9 methyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methyl morpholine the title compound was obtained. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.62 s 1H 8.25 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.15 t J 5.5 Hz 1H 5.38 broad s 1H 5.03 broad s 1H 4.04 to 3.92 m 1H 3.81 s 3H 3.77 d J 11.7 Hz 1H 3.69 dd J 11.5 Hz 2.9 Hz 1H 3.58 to 3.48 m 1H 3.43 to 3.33 m 1H 3.19 to 3.04 m 2H 2.27 to 2.17 m 1H 1.28 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 4H 0.94 t J 7.1 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 436.2 M H R 4.41 min.

The title compound p 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 8 3 fluorooxetan 3 yl 9 methyl 9H pur in 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine the title compound was obtained. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.69 s 1H 8.28 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.49 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.18 t J 5.7 Hz 1H 5.48 broad s 1H 5.36 to 5.22 m 2H 5.19 to 5.02 m 3H 4.02 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 3.81 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.76 to 3.66 m 4H 3.57 t J 10.6 Hz 1H 3.46 broad s 1H 3.17 to 3.06 m 2H 1.35 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 470.2 M H R 4.59 min.

The title compound q 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 8 cyclopropyl 9 ethyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methyl morpholine the title compound was obtained. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.63 s 1H 8.23 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 6.16 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 5.37 broad s 1H 5.04 broad s 1H 4.35 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 4.03 to 3.93 m 1H 3.77 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 3.68 dd J 11.4 Hz 2.8 Hz 1H 3.60 to 3.48 m 1H 3.43 to 3.30 m 1H 3.17 to 3.06 m 2H 2.30 to 2.20 m 1H 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.29 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.09 to 0.95 m 7H LC MS m z method C 450.2 M H R 4.73 min.

The title compound r 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl tetrahydro 2H pyran 4 ol the title compound was obtained. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.62 s 1H 8.25 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.14 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 5.78 s 1H 5.44 broad s 1H 5.10 broad s 1H 4.51 q J 6.8 Hz 2H 4.00 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 3.86 to 3.65 m 6H 3.55 t J 10.5 Hz 1H 3.47 to 3.34 m 1H 3.17 to 3.07 m 2H 2.28 to 2.13 m 2H 1.88 d J 13.5 Hz 2H 1.43 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.33 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 510.2 M H R 4.18 min.

The title compound s 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 8 4 fluorotetrahydro 2H pyran 4 yl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine the title compound was obtained. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.77 s 1H 8.25 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.49 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.29 t J 5.5 Hz 1H 5.40 broad s 1H 5.08 broad s 1H 4.41 q J 6.8 Hz 2H 4.00 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3.92 to 3.68 m 6H 3.63 to 3.50 m 1H 3.49 to 3.36 m 1H 3.17 to 3.07 m 2H 2.46 to 2.26 m 2H 2.19 t J 12.7 Hz 2H 1.41 t J 7.0 Hz 3H 1.34 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 512.3 M H R 5.20 min.

The title compound t 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 3 2 chloro 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 8 yl oxetan 3 ol the title compound was obtained. H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.65 s 1H 8.25 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.48 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.96 s 1H 6.15 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 5.45 broad s 1H 5.29 to 4.99 m 3H 4.77 d J 6.4 Hz 2H 4.15 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 4.01 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 3.81 d J 11.6 Hz 1H 3.72 d J 11.4 Hz 1H 3.56 t J 10.5 Hz 1H 3.50 to 3.37 m 1H 3.18 to 3.06 m 2H 1.39 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.35 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 482.2 M H R 4.01 min.

The title compound u 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 8 3 fluorooxetan 3 yl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine the title compound was obtained. H NMR MeOD 500 MHz ppm 8.33 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.45 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 5.57 broad s 1H 5.40 to 3.28 m 2H 5.26 broad s 1H 5.11 dd J 21.1 Hz 8.1 Hz 2H 4.23 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 4.11 to 4.01 m 1H 3.92 to 3.80 m 2H 3.69 t J 10.5 Hz 1H 3.60 to 3.49 m 1H 3.25 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 1.50 to 1.41 m 6H 1.17 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 484.2 M H R 4.93 min.

The title compound v 1 was prepared accordingly to the procedure described as for Example 13. Using S 4 2 chloro 9 ethyl 8 pyrimidin 5 yl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine the title compound was obtained. H NMR MeOD 500 MHz ppm 9.29 s 1H 9.23 s 2H 8.33 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.44 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 5.59 broad s 1H 5.24 broad s 1H 4.47 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 4.11 to 4.01 m 1H 3.92 to 3.81 m 2H 3.69 td J 11.9 2.6 1H 3.62 to 3.49 m 1H 3.28 to 3.20 m 2H 1.49 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.45 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.17 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 488.2 M H R 4.50 min.

This compound w 2 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 1 ethyl 3 4 8 3 hydroxyoxetan 3 yl 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 2 yl phenyl urea using S tert butyl 3 2 chloro 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpho lino 9H purin 8 yl 3 hydroxyazetidine 1 carboxylate as the starting material. LC MS m z method A 567.4 M H R 2.44 min.

To S tert butyl 3 2 4 3 ethylureido phenyl 9 methyl 6 3 methyl morpholino 9H purin 8 yl 3 hydroxyazetidine 1 carboxylate 45.2 mg 0.08 mmol in anhydrous dichloromethane 3.0 mL and anhydrous methanol 3.0 mL at 0 C. was added 4M hydrogen chloride in 1 4 dioxane 0.20 mL 0.80 mmol 10.0 eq. . The reaction mixture was stirred at RT under Nfor 16 h. Trifluoroacetic acid 0.20 mL was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at 40 C. under Nfor 24 h. The reaction was then cooled to RT. The reaction mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the residue was diluted with ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with saturated aqueous solution of sodium bicarbonate water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude was purified by reverse phase HPLC to give the title compound as a white solid 7.8 mg 21 . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.70 s 1H 8.27 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 7.95 s 1H 7.48 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.44 s 1H 6.22 t J 5.5 Hz 1H 5.48 broad s 1H 5.15 broad s 1H 4.14 d J 8.2 Hz 1H 4.08 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 4.01 d J 8.3 Hz 1H 3.84 to 3.67 m 7H 3.61 to 3.52 m 1H 3.50 to 3.39 m 1H 3.17 to 3.07 m 2H 1.34 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.06 t J 7.2 Hz 3H LC MS m z method C 467.2 M H R 3.21 min.

This compound x 2 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 1 4 8 cyclopropyl 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 2 yl phenyl 3 ethylurea using 6 benzyloxy N 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl phenyl pyridin 2 amine as the starting material. H NMR CDCl 400 MHz ppm 8.40 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.54 to 7.28 m 8H 6.58 broad s 1H 6.48 d J 7.8 Hz 1H 6.29 d J 7.9 Hz 1H 5.49 broad s 1H 5.39 s 2H 5.20 broad s 1H 4.40 q J 7.0 Hz 2H 4.04 dd J 11.2 Hz 3.1 Hz 1H 3.91 to 3.78 m 2H 3.69 td J 11.9 Hz 2.7 Hz 1H 3.59 to 3.46 m 1H 2.05 to 1.93 m 1H 1.50 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.41 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.20 to 1.13 m 2H 1.11 to 1.04 m 2H LC MS m z method A 562.3 M H R 3.74 min.

To a solution of S 6 benzyloxy N 4 8 cyclopropyl 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 2 yl phenyl pyridin 2 amine 100 mg 1.78 mmol in anhydrous MeOH 4 mL and EtOAc 4 mL was added 20 wt Pd OH on carbon 10.0 mg . The reaction mixture was evacuated with vacuum and purged with H 3 then stirred under an atmosphere of Hfor 2 hours. The reaction mixture was then filtered through a pad of Celite . The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and the crude was purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 0 to 30 methanol in dichloromethane . Crystallization from ether heptane afforded the title compound x 1 8.6 mg 10.2 as a solid. H NMR DMSO d 500 MHz ppm 10.16 broad s 1H 9.05 broad s 1H 8.27 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.76 broad s 2H 7.41 t J 7.9 Hz 1H 6.29 broad s 1H 5.98 d J 6.3 Hz 1H 5.36 broad s 1H 5.06 broad s 1H 4.36 q J 7.2 Hz 2H 3.98 d J 8.5 Hz 1H 3.78 d J 11.2 Hz 1H 3.69 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 3.54 t J 10.6 Hz 1H 3.44 to 3.33 m 1H 2.30 to 2.19 m 1H 1.40 t J 7.1 Hz 3H 1.29 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.12 to 0.93 m 4H LC MS m z method C 472.2 M H R 4.93 min.

This compound y 2 was prepared in an analogous fashion to S 1 4 8 cyclopropyl 9 methyl 6 3 methylmorpholino 9H purin 2 yl phenyl 3 ethylurea using 4 nitrophenylboronic acid pinacol ester as the starting material. LC MS m z method B2 409.3 M H R 2.45 min.

A solution of S 4 8 cyclopropyl 9 ethyl 2 4 nitrophenyl 9H purin 6 yl 3 methylmorpholine 76.0 mg 0.186 mmol dissolved in anhydrous methanol 3.0 mL and anhydrous THF 4.6 mL was subjected to a continuous flow hydrogenated apparatus H Cube 10 Pd C cartridge 1.0 mL min flow . The crude was concentrated in vacuo and purified by column chromotagraphy Si PPC gradient 20 to 100 ethyl acetate in heptane to give the desired product as a white solid 52.0 mg 73.8 . H NMR CDCl 500 MHz ppm 8.28 d J 8.5 Hz 2H 6.73 d J 8.6 Hz 2H 5.47 broad s 1H 5.17 broad s 1H 4.40 broad s 2H 4.03 dd J 11.3 Hz 3.3 Hz 1H 3.89 to 3.77 m 2H 3.68 td J 12.0 Hz 2.8 Hz 1H 3.50 t J 11.7 Hz 1H 2.02 to 1.91 m 1H 1.48 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.39 d J 6.8 Hz 3H 1.33 to 1.22 m 2H 1.20 to 1.10 m 2H 1.06 dd J 8.0 Hz 3.1 Hz 2H LC MS m z method A 379.3 M H R 1.96 min.

To a stirred solution of S 4 8 cyclopropyl 9 ethyl 6 3 methylmorpho lino 9H purin 2 yl aniline 52.0 mg 0.14 mmol in anhydrous 1 2 dichloroethane 3.0 mL was added triethylamine 0.063 mL 0.45 mmol 3.3 eq. . The reaction was cooled to 0 C. and triphosgene 40.8 mg 0.14 mmol 1.0 eq was added in one portion. After stirring at 0 C. under Nfor 5 minutes the reaction mixture was stirred at 70 C. for 1 h. The reaction mixture was cooled to RT and 3 oxetanamine 50.2 mg 0.69 mmol 5.0 eq. was then added. The reaction mixture was stirred at RT under Nfor 16 h and then diluted with ethyl acetate 25 mL . The organic layer was washed with water and brine dried NaSO filtered and concentrated in vacuo. The crude was purified by reverse phase HPLC to give the title compound as a white solid 30.5 mg 46.5 . H NMR DMSO d 400 MHz ppm 8.78 s 1H 8.24 d J 8.7 Hz 2H 7.47 d J 8.8 Hz 2H 6.97 d J 6.7 Hz 1H 5.37 broad s 1H 5.03 broad s 1H 4.86 to 4.69 m 3H 4.44 t J 6.0 Hz 2H 4.35 q J 7.1 Hz 2H 3.97 d J 8.7 Hz 1H 3.77 d J 11.3 Hz 1H 3.68 dd J 11.4 Hz 2.6 Hz 1H 3.53 t J 10.5 Hz 1H 3.44 to 3.33 m 1H 2.30 to 2.19 m 1H 1.39 t J 7.2 Hz 3H 1.28 d J 6.7 Hz 3H 1.10 to 0.95 m 4H LC MS m z method C 478.2 M H R 4.44 min.

The kinase activity of mTOR enzyme is assessed by incubating purified recombinant enzyme mTOR 1360 2549 GBL prepared in house in a reaction mixture containing ATP MnCl and a fluorescently labeled mTOR substrate e.g. GFP 4E BP1 Invitrogen product PR8808A . The reaction is stopped by an addition of a Terbium labeled phospho specific antibody e.g. Tb labeled anti p4E BP1 T37 T46 Invitrogen product PR8835A EDTA and TR FRET buffer solution Invitrogen Product PR3756B . Product formation is detected by way of time resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer TR FRET which occurs when the phosphorylated substrate and labeled antibody are in close proximity due to phospho specific binding. Enzymatic activity is measured as an increase in TR FRET signal using a Perkin Elmer Envision plate reader. The assay is performed in a 384 well Proxiplate Plus Perkin Elmer. Product 6008269 using the following protocol 

Compound activity is tested in 10 point dose curves starting at the highest final concentration of 10 uM. They are serially diluted in 100 DMSO prior to further dilution with assay buffer. The reaction mixture 8 uls containing 0.25 nM mTOR GBL enzyme 400 nM GFP 4E BP1 8 uM ATP 50 mM Hepes pH 7.5 0.01 Tween 20 10 mM MnCl 1 mM EGTA 1 mM DTT 1 DMSO compound is incubated at room temperature for 30 minutes. 8 L of solution containing 2 nM Tb anti p4E BP1 antibody 10 mM EDTA diluted TR FRET buffer is then added and incubated for 30 minutes to stop the reaction. The plate is scanned with the Envision plate reader. Ki values are calculated in Assay Explorer using the Morrison ATP competitive tight binding equation for Ki apparent determination.

Compounds of the invention e.g. compounds of Formula I have an activity level Ki in the mTOR kinase assay of between about 0.0001 nM and about 5 uM and in certain embodiments between about 0.0001 nM and about 1 uM and in certain other embodiments less than between about 0.0001 nM and about 0.5 uM. Compounds 101 to 113 of the invention appearing in Table 1 have the following activity level in uM 0.007 0.008 0.005 0.004 0.074 0.008 0.003 0.003 0.003 0.005 0.004 0.006 and 0.008 respectively.

The assay measures a test compound s inhibition of AKT serine 473 phosphorylation in human prostate adenocarcinoma derived PC 3 ATCC CRL 1435 cells that have been stimulated with epidermal growth factor EGF .

The PC 3 cell line is maintained in RPMI1640 media supplemented with 10 FBS 2 mM Glutamine and 10 mM HEPES pH 7.4 at 37 C. in a 5 CO2 humidified incubator.

Cells are seeded in 384 well plates at 7 000 cells well in 50 l growth media. After 24 hours growth media is removed and replaced with RPMI1640 containing no FBS. Cells are treated with 10 concentrations of test compounds or DMSO alone for controls final DMSO concentration 0.5 and incubated at 37 C. for 30 minutes. Cells are then stimulated for 10 minutes with 100 ng ml EGF final concentration . One column of controls is not stimulated with EGF to observe the signal ratio between stimulated and non stimulated cells. After 10 minutes compounds and stimulation media are removed and replaced with 25 l lysis buffer containing protease inhibitors and phosphatase inhibitors. This buffer contains detergent to bring about cellular disruption. Following complete cellular disruption 20 l lysate is transferred to a MesoScale Discovery 384 well 4 spot plate coated with an antibody to AKT MesoScale Discovery MSD product K211 CAD 2 which have been previously blocked with 3 bovine serum albumin in Tris buffered saline. Following the transfer of lysate to the MSD plate AKT in the lysate is captured on the coated antibody by incubation on a shaker at 4 C. for 16 hours. Following the capture step the plate is washed and then incubated for two hours with an antibody to S473 phosphorylated AKT which is conjugated with a Sulfo Tag. This tag gives a signal when in proximity to the electrode on the base of the MSD plate. Binding the tagged antibody to the captured protein allow detection on a MSD reader.

The ECis defined as the concentration at which a given compound achieves 50 decrease of the measured levels of S473 AKT phosphorylation. ECvalues are calculated using MDL Assay Explorer 3.0.1.8 fitting a sigmoidal curve with a variable slope.

Compounds 101 to 113 described in Table 1 have an EC50 activity level of in uM 0.030 0.037 0.029 0.01 N A 0.015 0.007 0.009 0.008 0.005 0.004 0.006 and 0.008 respectively.

Efficacy of Formula I compounds were measured by a cell proliferation assay employing the following protocol 

1. An aliquot of 20 l of cell culture containing about 10cells PC3 or MDAMB361.1 in medium was deposited in each well of a 384 well opaque walled plate.

2. Control wells were prepared containing medium and without cells Cells were allowed to settle overnight.

5. A volume of CellTiter Glo Reagent equal to the volume of cell culture medium present in each well was added.

Alternatively cells were seeded at optimal density in a 96 well plate and incubated for 4 days in the presence of test compound. Alamar Blue was subsequently added to the assay medium and cells were incubated for 6 h before reading at 544 nm excitation 590 nm emission. ICvalues were calculated using a sigmoidal dose response curve fit. The first compounds described in Table 1 have an IC50 value of in uM with PC3 cells 0.282 0.207 0.12 0.115 N A 0.441 0.112 0.232 0.218 0.163 0.269 0.853 and 1.7.

Binding Assays Initial polarization experiments were performed on an Analyst HT 96 384 Molecular Devices Corp Sunnyvale Calif. . Samples for fluorescence polarization affinity measurements were prepared by addition of 1 3 serial dilutions of p110 alpha PI3K Upstate Cell Signaling Solutions Charlottesville Va. starting at a final concentration of 20 ug mL in polarization buffer 10 mM Tris pH 7.5 50 mM NaCl 4 mM MgCl 0.05 Chaps and 1 mM DTT to 10 mM PIP Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah final concentration. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume Proxiplates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the protein concentration and the ECvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation using KaleidaGraph software Synergy software Reading Pa. . This experiment also establishes the appropriate protein concentration to use in subsequent competition experiments with inhibitors.

Inhibitor ICvalues were determined by addition of the 0.04 mg mL p110 alpha PI3K final concentration combined with PIP 10 mM final concentration to wells containing 1 3 serial dilutions of the antagonists in a final concentration of 25 mM ATP Cell Signaling Technology Inc. Danvers Mass. in the polarization buffer. After an incubation time of 30 minutes at room temperature the reactions were stopped by the addition of GRP 1 and PIP3 TAMRA probe Echelon Inc. Salt Lake City Utah 100 nM and 5 nM final concentrations respectively. Read with standard cut off filters for the rhodamine fluorophore ex 530 nm em 590 nm in 384 well black low volume proxi plates PerkinElmer Wellesley Mass. Fluorescence polarization values were plotted as a function of the antagonist concentration and the ICvalues were obtained by fitting the data to a 4 parameter equation in Assay Explorer software MDL San Ramon Calif. .

The foregoing description is considered as illustrative only of the principles of the invention. Further since numerous modifications and changes will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art it is not desired to limit the invention to the exact construction and process shown as described above. Accordingly all suitable modifications and equivalents may be considered to fall within the scope of the invention as defined by the claims that follow.

