---

title: Classification recommendation based on social actions
abstract: Embodiments are directed towards employing a classifier to determine a classification for target media content using nominally factored social interaction attributes, the classifier being trained using a training dataset that includes at least one nominally factored social interaction attribute. The trained classifier determines a classification of the target media content based on nominally factored social interaction attributes obtained during a monitored social interaction with the target media content and one or more users. The classification may include identifying at least one genre for the media content, as well as predicting whether the media content will go viral or not. The classification may also be used to provide recommendation to the one or more users of other media content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521679&OS=08521679&RS=08521679
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 08521679
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101220
---
The present invention relates generally to media content and more particularly but not exclusively to recommending a classification of media content based on in part on monitored social activities with to the media content.

The expansion of the internet and the declining cost of digital content creation have spawned a new epidemic of sharing using and experiencing media content. Today socially sharing videos has become a very popular activity. Thus users are constantly looking for additional media content to share and experience. However due to the vast amounts of media content available it may sometimes be difficult for users to locate media content that may be of interest to them. Thus it is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention has been made.

Throughout the specification and claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The phrase in one embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to the same embodiment though it may. Furthermore the phrase in another embodiment as used herein does not necessarily refer to a different embodiment although it may. Thus as described below various embodiments of the invention may be readily combined without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

In addition as used herein the term or is an inclusive or operator and is equivalent to the term and or unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. The term based on is not exclusive and allows for being based on additional factors not described unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. In addition throughout the specification the meaning of a an and the include plural references. The meaning of in includes in and on. 

As used herein the term media content refers to any digital data useable by a computing device including textual graphical and or audio content. Media content may include video images animation audio files texts instant messages emails documents or the like. However media content may also include content within a web page including without limit blog pages news articles educational articles advertisements any virtually any other digital data that may be posted to a website or otherwise accessible over a network.

As used herein the term social activity refers to an interaction between one or more users an interaction between one or more users and media content and or an interaction between one or more users about media content. Social activity may therefore by any action performed by a user in relation to media content including without limit viewing media content rating media content leaving a comment about media content chatting about media content sharing media content control accessing media content posting media content to a website or the like.

As used herein the phrase synchronous social activity refers to any social activity in a shared environment where a user interacts with another user while concurrently experiencing and or otherwise interacting with media content. Synchronous social activity may include without limit chatting about media content sharing media content control or the like.

As used herein the phrase asynchronous social activity refers to any social activity where a first user interacts with the media content independent from a second user s interaction with the media content and the first user. Asynchronous social activity may include individually viewing media content rating media content leaving a comment posting media content or virtually any other activity performed by one user with respect to the media content absent any concurrent interaction with other users and the media content.

As used herein the phrase social interaction attribute refers to any data that is generated from the media content itself and or from social activities corresponding to the media content. A social interaction attribute may include for example a number of scrub commands e.g. fast forward or rewind a number of play commands a number of pause commands a number of characters a number of words a number of emoticons a number of user views a social activity session duration a media content duration a user generated rating user generated comments or the like. However other attributes may also be included. Further social interaction attributes are not to be construed as being limited by a particular type or format of media content.

As used herein the term implicit usage refers to social interaction attributes that are generated as a result of a user s interaction with media content. Non limiting examples of implicit usage include visiting viewing reading or otherwise accessing media content. Implicit usage may also include a number of scrub commands e.g. fast forward or rewind a number of play commands a number of pause commands a social activity session duration a media content duration a number of user views or the like.

As used herein the term explicit actions refers to social interaction attributes that are expressions or responses from a user about the media content. Explicit actions may include for example a user s generated rating a user s generated comments a number and or type of emoticons used about the media content or the like.

The following briefly describes the embodiments of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects of the invention. This brief description is not intended as an extensive overview. It is not intended to identify key or critical elements or to delineate or otherwise narrow the scope. Its purpose is merely to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Briefly stated the present invention is directed towards employing a classifier to determine a classification of media content using at least one nominally factored social interaction attribute. In one embodiment the social interaction attribute may include a plurality of social interaction attributes including the at least one nominally factored social interaction attribute. In one embodiment the social interaction attribute s may be obtained during any of an asynchronous social activity a synchronous social activity or through a combination of synchronous social and asynchronous social activities associated with the media content and one or more users. In one embodiment the classification may include a genre for the media content. However the invention is not constrained to providing a single classification for the media content. For example in another embodiment the classification could include two or more classes for which the media content may be identified a hierarchy of classes or any of a similar arrangement of multiple classes.

In another embodiment the classification may also include a prediction of whether the media content will go viral over a network. That is a prediction of the popularly or interest in the media content may also be provided. In one embodiment based on the determined classification of the media content a recommendation about other media content may be provided to one or more users involved in the social activities associated with the media content.

In another embodiment the classification may be employed as a label or tag for the media content useable to improve searching sorting or otherwise managing media content. Thus the present invention is directed towards enabling classification of media content to be performed without requiring users to directly tag label or otherwise classify the media content. Instead social interactions are monitored during user interactions with the media content and possibly other users and then such social interactions are employed to automatically without additional user input classify the media content.

One embodiment of client devices is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Generally however client devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of receiving and sending a message over a network such as network wireless network or the like. Client devices may also be described generally as client devices that are configured to be portable. Thus client devices may include virtually any portable computing device capable of connecting to another computing device and receiving information. Such devices include portable devices such as cellular telephones smart phones display pagers radio frequency RF devices infrared IR devices Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld computers laptop computers wearable computers tablet computers integrated devices combining one or more of the preceding devices and the like. As such client devices typically range widely in terms of capabilities and features. In one non limiting example a cell phone may have a numeric keypad and a few lines of monochrome LCD display on which only text may be displayed. In another example a web enabled mobile device may have a touch sensitive screen a stylus and several lines of color LCD display in which both text and graphics may be displayed.

Client device may include virtually any computing device capable of communicating over a network to send and receive information including social networking information performing various online activities or the like. The set of such devices may include devices that typically connect using a wired or wireless communications medium such as personal computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs or the like. In one embodiment at least some of client devices may operate over wired and or wireless network. Client device may include virtually any device useable as a television device. Today many of these devices include a capability to access and or otherwise communicate over a network such as network and or even wireless network . Moreover client device may access various computing applications including a browser or other web based application.

A web enabled client device may include a browser application that is configured to receive and to send web pages web based messages and the like. The browser application may be configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any web based language including a wireless application protocol messages WAP and the like. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SMGL HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message. In one embodiment a user of the client device may employ the browser application to perform various activities over a network online . However another application may also be used to perform various online activities.

Client devices also may include at least one other client application that is configured to receive and or send content including social activities between another computing device. The client application may include a capability to provide and receive media content textual content graphical content audio content and the like. Such social activities may include but are not limited to asynchronous and or synchronous social activities associated with media content.

The client application may further provide information that identifies itself including a type capability name and the like. In one embodiment client devices may uniquely identify themselves through any of a variety of mechanisms including a phone number Mobile Identification Number MIN an electronic serial number ESN or other mobile device identifier. The information may also indicate a content format that the mobile device is enabled to employ. Such information may be provided in a network packet or the like sent between other client devices content service device MCCD or other computing devices.

Client devices may further be configured to include a client application that enables an end user to log into an end user account that may be managed by another computing device such as content service device MCCD or the like. Such end user account In one non limiting example may be configured to enable the end user to manage one or more online activities including In one non limiting example search activities social networking activities browse various websites make purchases sell products services communicate with other users or share attachments with others or the like. However participation in such online networking activities may also be performed without logging into the end user account.

Moreover client devices may be configured to operate to send messages and other user generated comments for posting through and or on a content service device such as . That is in one embodiment a user of client devices may create and or otherwise post user generated comments regarding media content within a blog webpage or the like hosted by one or more of content service device .

Wireless network is configured to couple client devices and its components with network . Wireless network may include any of a variety of wireless sub networks that may further overlay stand alone ad hoc networks and the like to provide an infrastructure oriented connection for client devices . Such sub networks may include mesh networks Wireless LAN WLAN networks cellular networks and the like. In one embodiment the system may include more than one wireless network.

Wireless network may further include an autonomous system of terminals gateways routers and the like connected by wireless radio links and the like. These connectors may be configured to move freely and randomly and organize themselves arbitrarily such that the topology of wireless network may change rapidly.

Wireless network may further employ a plurality of access technologies including 2nd 2G 3rd 3G 4th 4G generation radio access for cellular systems WLAN Wireless Router WR mesh and the like. Access technologies such as 2G 3G 4G and future access networks may enable wide area coverage for mobile devices such as client devices with various degrees of mobility. In one non limiting example wireless network may enable a radio connection through a radio network access such as Global System for Mobil communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA and the like. In essence wireless network may include virtually any wireless communication mechanism by which information may travel between client devices and another computing device network and the like.

Network is configured to couple network devices with other computing devices including content service device MCCD client devices and and through wireless network to client devices . Network is enabled to employ any form of computer readable media for communicating information from one electronic device to another. Also network can include the Internet in addition to local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs direct connections such as through a universal serial bus USB port other forms of computer readable media or any combination thereof. On an interconnected set of LANs including those based on differing architectures and protocols a router acts as a link between LANs enabling messages to be sent from one to another. In addition communication links within LANs typically include twisted wire pair or coaxial cable while communication links between networks may utilize analog telephone lines full or fractional dedicated digital lines including T1 T2 T3 and T4 Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDNs Digital Subscriber Lines DSLs wireless links including satellite links or other communications links known to those skilled in the art. Furthermore remote computers and other related electronic devices could be remotely connected to either LANs or WANs via a modem and temporary telephone link. In one embodiment network may be configured to transport information of an Internet Protocol IP . In essence network includes any communication method by which information may travel between computing devices.

Additionally communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. By way of example communication media includes wired media such as twisted pair coaxial cable fiber optics wave guides and other wired media and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

Content service device includes virtually any network device usable to operate as website servers to provide content including media content to client devices . Such content may include but is not limited to textual graphical and or audio content and or any of a variety of media content for access by or any of a variety of other interactions with the media content by another client device. Content service device may also operate as a messaging server such as an SMS message service IM message service email message service alert service or the like. Moreover content service device may also operate as a File Transfer Protocol FTP server a database server music and or video download server or the like. Additionally content service device may be configured to perform multiple functions.

One embodiment of MCCD is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however MCCD may include any computing device capable of connecting to network to determine a classification for target media content using nominally factored social interaction attributes the classifier being trained using a training dataset that includes at least one nominally factored social interaction attribute. The training of the classifier is described in more detail below.

In one embodiment MCCD may detect receive or otherwise monitor communications about target media content. Such communications may include but are not limited to interactions with the media content and one or more client devices . The communications may include for example social actions by a single client device and or social actions between one or more client devices and the target media content. Further such communications may include content services and one or more client devices .

During or otherwise based on the communications MCCD may obtain a plurality of target media content variables that map to one or more social interaction attributes that are obtained from the social actions. In one embodiment MCCD may then nominally factor at least one of the plurality of target media content variables. MCCD may then determine a classification for the target media content by providing to a classifier the plurality of target media content variables including the nominally factored target media content variable.

In one embodiment MCCD may provide the determined classification to client device . In one embodiment the classification may include a genre classification of the target media content. In another embodiment the classification may be employed by MCCD to provide to one or more client devices associated with the communication a recommendation of other media content. In still another embodiment MCCD might further provide an indication of whether based on the classification the target media content is predicted to become popular such that it may be considered to go viral. 

However use of the classification is not limited to the above and other applications may also use the classification including tagging or labeling the target media content such that searches sorting or other management related actions of the target media content may be performed.

Devices that may operate as content service device and or MCCE include various network devices including but not limited to personal computers desktop computers multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs server devices network appliances and the like.

Although illustrates MCCD as a single computing device the invention is not so limited. For example one or more functions of the MCCD may be distributed across one or more distinct network devices. Further while MCCD illustrates a network device useable to determine a classification distinct from displaying such results the invention is not so limited. Thus in one embodiment one or more functions of content service device may also be performed by MCCD .

Moreover MCCD is not limited to a particular configuration. Thus in one embodiment MCCD may contain a plurality of network devices to perform the classification determination. Similarly in another embodiment MCCD may contain a plurality of network devices that operate using a master slave approach where one of the plurality of network devices of MCCD operates to manage and or otherwise coordinate operations of the other network devices. In other embodiments the MCCD may operate as a plurality of network devices within a cluster architecture a peer to peer architecture and or even within a cloud architecture. Thus the invention is not to be construed as being limited to a single environment and other configurations and architectures are also envisaged.

As shown in the figure client device includes a processing unit CPU in communication with a mass memory via a bus . Client device also includes a power supply one or more network interfaces an audio interface a display a keypad an illuminator a video interface an input output interface a haptic interface and an optional global positioning systems GPS receiver . Power supply provides power to client device . A rechargeable or non rechargeable battery may be used to provide power. The power may also be provided by an external power source such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle that supplements and or recharges a battery.

Client device may optionally communicate with a base station not shown or directly with another computing device. Network interface includes circuitry for coupling client device to one or more networks and is constructed for use with one or more communication protocols and technologies including but not limited to global system for mobile communication GSM code division multiple access CDMA time division multiple access TDMA user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP SMS general packet radio service GPRS WAP ultra wide band UWB IEEE 802.16 Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax SIP RTP or any of a variety of other wireless communication protocols. Network interface is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

Audio interface is arranged to produce and receive audio signal s such as the sound of a human voice. For example audio interface may be coupled to a speaker and microphone not shown to enable telecommunication with others and or generate an audio acknowledgement for some action. Display may be a liquid crystal display LCD gas plasma light emitting diode LED or any other type of display used with a computing device. Display may also include a touch sensitive screen arranged to receive input from an object such as a stylus or a digit from a human hand.

Keypad may comprise any input device arranged to receive input from a user. For example keypad may include a push button numeric dial or a keyboard. Keypad may also include command buttons that are associated with selecting and sending images. Illuminator may provide a status indication and or provide light. Illuminator may remain active for specific periods of time or in response to events. For example when illuminator is active it may backlight the buttons on keypad and stay on while the client device is powered. Also illuminator may backlight these buttons in various patterns when particular actions are performed such as dialing another client device. Illuminator may also cause light sources positioned within a transparent or translucent case of the client device to illuminate in response to actions.

Video interface is arranged to capture video images such as a still photo a video segment an infrared video or the like. For example video interface may be coupled to a digital video camera a web camera or the like. Video interface may comprise a lens an image sensor and other electronics. Image sensors may include a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS integrated circuit charge coupled device CCD or any other integrated circuit for sensing light.

Client device also comprises input output interface for communicating with external devices such as a headset or other input or output devices not shown in . Input output interface can utilize one or more communication technologies such as USB infrared Bluetooth or the like. Haptic interface is arranged to provide tactile feedback to a user of the client device. For example the haptic interface may be employed to vibrate client device in a particular way when another user of a computing device is calling.

Optional GPS transceiver can determine the physical coordinates of client device on the surface of the Earth which typically outputs a location as latitude and longitude values. GPS transceiver can also employ other geo positioning mechanisms including but not limited to triangulation assisted GPS AGPS E OTD CI SAI ETA BSS or the like to further determine the physical location of client device on the surface of the Earth. It is understood that under different conditions GPS transceiver can determine a physical location within millimeters for client device and in other cases the determined physical location may be less precise such as within a meter or significantly greater distances. In one embodiment however mobile device may through other components provide other information that may be employed to determine a physical location of the device including for example a MAC address IP address or the like.

Mass memory includes a RAM a ROM and other storage means. Mass memory illustrates an example of computer readable storage media devices for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Mass memory stores a basic input output system BIOS for controlling low level operation of client device . The mass memory also stores an operating system for controlling the operation of client device . It will be appreciated that this component may include a general purpose operating system such as a version of UNIX or LINUX or a specialized client communication operating system such as Windows Mobile or the Symbian operating system. The operating system may include or interface with a Java virtual machine module that enables control of hardware components and or operating system operations via Java application programs.

Mass memory further includes one or more data storage which can be utilized by client device to store among other things applications and or other data. For example data storage may also be employed to store information that describes various capabilities of client device . The information may then be provided to another device based on any of a variety of events including being sent as part of a header during a communication sent upon request or the like. Data storage may also be employed to store social networking information including address books buddy lists aliases user profile information or the like. Further as illustrated data storage may also store messages web page content or any of a variety of user generated content. At least a portion of the information may also be stored on a disk drive or other computer readable storage device not shown within client device .

Data storage may further store media content and or social interaction attributes . Media content may include a training media content corpus which is a collection of media content. In one embodiment the media content may include only the content itself. In another embodiment the media content may include metadata corresponding to social interaction attributes.

Social interaction attributes may include a plurality of training media content datasets mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous and or asynchronous social activity. Similarly social interaction attributes may include a plurality of target media content variables mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous and or asynchronous social activity.

Applications may include computer executable instructions which when executed by client device transmit receive and or otherwise process messages e.g. SMS MMS IM email and or other messages audio video and enable telecommunication with another user of another client device. Other examples of application programs include calendars search programs email clients IM applications SMS applications VOIP applications contact managers task managers transcoders database programs word processing programs security applications spreadsheet programs games search programs and so forth. Applications may include for example messenger browser and classifier .

Browser may include virtually any application configured to receive and display graphics text multimedia and the like employing virtually any web based language. In one embodiment the browser application is enabled to employ Handheld Device Markup Language HDML Wireless Markup Language WML WMLScript JavaScript Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML HyperText Markup Language HTML eXtensible Markup Language XML and the like to display and send a message. However any of a variety of other web based languages may be employed. In one embodiment browser may enable a user of client device to provide and or receive user generated content including messages and or other documents between another computing device for posting reading and or otherwise communicating with another client device.

Messenger may be configured to manage a messaging session using any of a variety of messaging communications including but not limited to email Short Message Service SMS Instant Message IM Multimedia Message Service MMS internet relay chat IRC mIRC RSS feeds and or the like. For example in one embodiment messenger may be configured as an IM application such as AOL Instant Messenger Yahoo Messenger .NET Messenger Server ICQ or the like. In one embodiment messenger may be configured to include a mail user agent MUA such as Elm Pine MH Outlook Eudora Mac Mail Mozilla Thunderbird or the like. In another embodiment messenger may be a client application that is configured to integrate and employ a variety of messaging protocols including but not limited to various push and or pull mechanisms for client device . In one embodiment messenger may interact with browser for managing messages. As used herein the term message refers to any of a variety of messaging formats or communications forms including but not limited to email SMS IM MMS IRC or the like.

Classifier is configured to employ a classifier to determine a classification for target media content using nominally factored social interaction attributes the classifier being trained using a training dataset that includes at least one nominally factored social interaction attribute. In one embodiment Classifier may be an optional component within client device . For example a classifier hosted on another network device may be employed to perform the classification of media content.

In any event classifier may retrieve a plurality of training media content datasets nominally factor at least one of the plurality of training media content datasets and train a classifier with the plurality of training media content datasets. Additionally classifier may be configured to obtain a target media content and determine a classification for the target media content using the trained classifier.

In one embodiment the plurality of training media content datasets may be received by a single one of classifier which may then distribute the training media content datasets across other network devices similar to client device having similar classifiers such that the distributed training media content datasets my be operated on substantially in parallel to provide nominally factored training media content datasets. The training media content datasets may then be sent to a single network device such that the classifier is trained using the training media content datasets.

In one embodiment the classifier is trained on one client device. Once trained the classifier may be distributed to a plurality of other network devices similar to client device having similar classifiers such that the trained classifiers determine a classification for target media content independent of the other network devices. In any event classifier may employ processes similar to those described below in conjunction with to perform at least some of its actions.

Network device includes processing unit video display adapter and a mass memory all in communication with each other via bus . The mass memory generally includes RAM ROM and one or more permanent mass storage devices such as hard disk drive tape drive optical drive and or floppy disk drive. The mass memory stores operating system for controlling the operation of network device . Any general purpose operating system may be employed. Basic input output system BIOS is also provided for controlling the low level operation of network device . As illustrated in network device also can communicate with the Internet or some other communications network via network interface unit which is constructed for use with various communication protocols including the TCP IP protocol. Network interface unit is sometimes known as a transceiver transceiving device or network interface card NIC .

The mass memory as described above illustrates another type of computer readable media namely computer readable storage media. Computer readable storage media devices may include volatile nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Examples of computer readable storage media include RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other physical medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a computing device.

As shown data storage may include a database text spreadsheet folder file or the like that may be configured to maintain and store user account identifiers user profiles email addresses IM addresses and or other network addresses or the like. Data stores may further include program code data algorithms and the like for use by a processor such as central processing unit CPU to execute and perform actions. In one embodiment at least some of data store might also be stored on another component of network device including but not limited to processor readable storage medium hard disk drive or the like. Data storage may further store media content and or social interaction attributes .

Media content may include a training media content corpus which is a collection of media content. In one embodiment the media content may include only the content itself. In another embodiment the media content may include metadata corresponding to social interaction attributes.

Social interaction attributes may include a plurality of training media content datasets mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous and or asynchronous social activity. Similarly social interaction attributes may include a plurality of target media content variables mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous and or asynchronous social activity.

The mass memory also stores program code and data. One or more applications are loaded into mass memory and run on operating system . Examples of application programs may include transcoders schedulers calendars database programs word processing programs HTTP programs customizable user interface programs IPSec applications encryption programs security programs SMS message servers IM message servers email servers account managers and so forth. Messaging server web server and classifier may also be included as application programs within applications .

Messaging server may include virtually any computing component or components configured and arranged to forward messages from message user agents and or other message servers or to deliver messages to a local message store such as data storage or the like. Thus messaging server may include a message transfer manager to communicate a message employing any of a variety of email protocols including but not limited to Simple Mail Transfer Protocol SMTP Post Office Protocol POP Internet Message Access Protocol IMAP NNTP or the like. Messaging server may also be managed by one or more components of messaging server . Thus messaging server may also be configured to manage SMS messages IM MMS IRC RSS feeds mIRC or any of a variety of other message types. In one embodiment messaging server may enable users to initiate and or otherwise conduct chat sessions VOIP sessions or the like.

In one embodiment messaging server may receive media content from another network device such as a client device or the like. Messaging server may then enable the network device to share media content with another network device. Messaging server may provide the media content a media content platform for interacting with the media content or the like.

Web server represent any of a variety of services that are configured to provide content including messages over a network to another computing device. Thus web server includes for example a web server a File Transfer Protocol FTP server a database server a content server or the like. Web server may provide the content including messages over the network using any of a variety of formats including but not limited to WAP HDML WML SMGL HTML XML cHTML xHTML or the like.

Classifier operates substantially similar to classifier of as described above. However in one embodiment classifier may be configured to operate over a plurality of communications between one or more client devices to employ a classifier to determine a classification for target media content for a communication using nominally factored social interaction attributes the classifier being trained using a training dataset that includes at least one nominally factored social interaction attribute.

In one embodiment classifier may be configured to retrieve a plurality of training media content datasets nominally factor at least one of the plurality of training media content datasets and training a classifier with the plurality of training media content datasets. Additionally classifier is configured to obtain a target media content and determine a classification for the target media content using the train classifier.

In one embodiment the plurality of training media content datasets may be received by a single one of classifier which may then distribute the training media content datasets across the other network devices similar to network device having similar classifiers such that the distributed training media content datasets my be operated on substantially in parallel to provide nominally factored training media content datasets. The training media content datasets may then be sent to a single network device such that the classifier is trained using the training media content datasets. In any event classifier may perform actions such as those described below in conjunction with .

In one embodiment classifier is trained on one network device. Once trained the classifier may be distributed to a plurality of other network devices similar to network device having similar classifiers such that the trained classifiers determine a classification for target media content independent of the other network devices.

In some embodiments network device may contain a training media content corpus including the plurality of training media content datasets mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about asynchronous social activity. In other embodiments network device may contain a training media content corpus including the plurality of training media content datasets mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous social activity.

In some embodiments network device may contain a target media content including a plurality of training media content variables mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about asynchronous social activity. In other embodiments network device may contain a target media content including the plurality of target media content variables mapped to a plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous social activity.

The operation of certain aspects of the invention will now be described with respect to . illustrates a logical flow diagram generally showing one embodiment of an overview process for training and employing a classifier to determine a classification for media content. In some embodiments process of may be implemented by and or executed on a single network device such as network device of . In other embodiments process or portions of process of may be implemented by and or executed on a plurality of network devices.

In some embodiments process may be implemented in two modes an offline mode and an online mode. As used herein the term offline mode refers to activities that may be performed non real time. In some embodiments such activities are sometimes referred to as being performed in background mode. However in other embodiments offline mode refers to activities that are not directly associated with an active or current communication between one or more client devices about media content. The term online mode herein refers to activities that are performed directly related to an active or current communication between one or more client devices about media content. Thus in one embodiment training of a classifier may be performed in an offline mode such as in a batch configuration background mode or the like. In one embodiment executing the trained classifier to classify media content is performed in an online mode.

Thus as illustrated in blocks and may be performed during an offline mode as indicated being above the dashed line while blocks and of may be performed in an online mode. Moreover it should be noted that the offline mode training activities and the online mode classification activities may be performed separately. Thus in one embodiment the training of the classifier might be performed at a different frequency than the execution of the online mode classification activities. Similarly in one embodiment the training of the classifier such as blocks and might be performed iteratively.

In any event process begins after a start block at block which is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however at block a plurality of training media content datasets is retrieved from a training media content corpus. In one non limiting example the dataset may include a video database where each training media content dataset in the plurality of training media content datasets maps to a different social interaction attribute of the plurality of social interaction attributes. Process then proceeds to block which is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly however at block at least one training media content dataset is nominally factored. Process then proceeds to block where labels for the training media content are identified. In some embodiments the labels may be utilized to provide a ground truth for a classifier. In one embodiment the labels may be the classification of each training media content file within the training media content corpus. Processing then flows to block which is described in more detail below in conjunction with . Briefly at block a classifier is trained based on nominally factored training media content datasets and possibly one or more non factored training media content datasets. In some embodiments the actions described by blocks and might be executed iteratively.

As noted above once the classifier is trained it may then be used one or more times to perform various classification activities as described further below. Thus as illustrated by the dashed line flow to block processing may flow next to block where a communication is detected monitored or otherwise obtained that is about target media content and from which target media content variables may be obtained that are mapped to social interaction attributes associated with the communication. Block is described in more detail in conjunction with .

Proceeding next to block which is described in more detail below in conjunction with at least one target media content variable is nominally factored. Flow continues next to block described in more detail in conjunction with where the trained classifier from block is executed to determine a classification for the target media content.

Continuing next to block which is described in more detail in conjunction with a recommendation for additional media content is provided based on the determined classification. Process may then return to a calling process to perform other actions or as discussed above processing may loop back to block to classify media content for one or more other communications about media content.

Process of begins after a start block at decision block where a determination is made whether the retrieved plurality of training media content datasets is about synchronous social activity. If the retrieved plurality of training media content datasets is about synchronous social activity then processing flows to block otherwise processing flows to block .

At block a training media content corpus concerning synchronous social activity is determined. The training media content corpus includes a collection of media content files where each media content file is of the same type. In one non limiting example the training media content corpus may be a collection of videos such as a video database.

Along with the collection of media content files the training media content corpus may also include data corresponding to a plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous social activity. Each media content file in the training media content corpus may be associated with data corresponding to the plurality of social interaction attributes. In some embodiments the plurality of social interaction attributes may include implicit usage social interaction attributes. In some embodiments the plurality of social interaction attributes may include explicit action social interaction attributes. In other embodiments the plurality of social interaction attributes may include implicit usage and explicit action social interaction attributes.

In one embodiment the training media content corpus may be determined and not retrieved because the contents of the media content itself are not utilized by a classifier. Rather data corresponding to the plurality of social interaction attributes about the media content is utilized by the classifier. In some embodiments the training media content corpus may be determined by an internet crawler. In one embodiment the internet crawler may determine the training media content corpus from a single database. The internet crawler may determine in one embodiment a subset of all the media content within a media content database. In another embodiment the internet crawler may determine the training media content corpus from a plurality of databases. In other embodiments the training media content corpus may be determined from a media content database without using an internet crawler. In one non limiting example the training media content corpus may be retrieved from platform event logs.

In another embodiment the training media content corpus may be determined by observing a plurality of live synchronous social activity sessions during a set period of time. In one embodiment a session may be a synchronous social activity between two users where the session is started when one user initiates a shared environment and the session ends when one user terminates the shared environment. In one non limiting example the training media content corpus may be retrieved from monitoring the live interactions of platform event users during a time period.

In another embodiment the training media content corpus may be determined from a historical record for a plurality of synchronous social activity sessions. In one embodiment the historical record may be a data log or other stored record. In one non limiting example the training media content corpus may be determined from a platform event log for a single time period. Determining the training media content corpus is not to be construed as limited to these embodiments but includes other methods of collecting a data corpus known to those skilled in the art.

In any event process may then proceed from block to block . At block the social interaction attributes about synchronous social activity are selected. The selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes may depend on an availability of data or how the data corresponding to the social interaction attribute was collected such as implicit usage or explicit action. In one embodiment only implicit usage social interaction attributes may be selected. In another embodiment only explicit actions may be selected. Yet in another embodiment a combination of implicit usages and explicit action social interaction attributes may be selected.

In some embodiments all of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be selected. However in other embodiments not all of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be selected. In one embodiment the selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be random. In another embodiment the selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be determined by a user.

In one embodiment the selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes about synchronous social activity may include a session duration a number of play commands a number of pause commands a number of scrub commands e.g. fast forward and rewind a number of characters a number of words a number of session inviter activities and a number of session receiver activities. The number of session inviter activities may be a sum of all the actions performed by a user who initiated the synchronous social activity session. The number of session receiver activities may be a sum of all the actions performed by a user who received the synchronous social activity session invite. After block process proceeds to block which is discussed in further detail below.

If the retrieved training media content datasets are not about synchronous social activity then process may proceed from decision block to block . At block a training media content corpus concerning asynchronous social activity is determined. The training media content corpus is a collection of media content files where each media content file is of the same type. In one non limiting example the training media content corpus may be a collection of videos such as a video database.

Along with the collection of media content files the training media content corpus also contains data corresponding to a plurality of social interaction attributes about asynchronous social activity. Each media content file in the training media content corpus is associated with data corresponding to the plurality of social interaction attributes. In some embodiments the plurality of social interaction attributes may include implicit usage social interaction attributes. And in some embodiments the plurality of social interaction attributes may include explicit action social interaction attributes. In other embodiments the plurality of social interaction attributes may include implicit usage and explicit action social interaction attributes.

In one embodiment the training media content corpus may be determined and not retrieved because the contents of the media content itself are not utilized by a classifier. Rather data corresponding to the plurality of social interaction attributes about the media content is utilized by the classifier. In some embodiments the training media content corpus may be determined by an internet crawler. In one embodiment the internet crawler may determine the training media content corpus from a single database. The internet crawler may determine in one embodiment a subset of all the media content within a media content database. In one non limiting example a crawler may be implemented using various applications such as a YouTube website application programming interface or the like to retrieve a training media content corpus of videos from each of a variety of YouTube genre categories. In one embodiment internet crawler may retrieve the media content for a determined top N YouTube genre categories where N is greater than two. In another embodiment the internet crawler may determine the training media content corpus from a plurality of databases. In other embodiments the training media content corpus may be determined from a media content database without using an internet crawler. Determining the training media content corpus is not to be construed as limited to these embodiments but includes other methods of collecting a data corpus known to those skilled in the art.

Process then proceeds from block to block . At block the plurality of social interaction attributes about asynchronous social activity are selected. The selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes may depend on the availability of data or how the data corresponding to the social interaction attribute was collected such as implicit usage or explicit action. In one embodiment only implicit usage social interaction attributes may be selected. In another embodiment only explicit actions may be selected. Yet in another embodiment a combination of implicit usages and explicit action social interaction attributes may be selected. In one embodiment the selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes about asynchronous social activity includes a user generated rating a view count and a media content duration.

In some embodiments all of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be selected. However in other embodiments not all of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be selected. In one embodiment the selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be random. In another embodiment the selection of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be determined by a user.

From block and block process proceeds to block where a plurality of training media content datasets is retrieved from the data in the training media content corpus. Each training media content dataset in the plurality of training media content datasets corresponds to a different social interaction attribute of the plurality of social interaction attributes. In one non limiting example a training media content dataset is retrieved for user generated ratings for all the media content files in the training media content corpus. In this non limiting example the ratings is the social interaction attribute. In some embodiments the training media content datasets are retrieved from media content metadata. In other embodiments the training media content datasets are retrieved from a storage media that maintains the all the data corresponding to social interaction attributes. In one embodiment the training media content datasets are retrieved from a storage media that maintains the all the data corresponding to social interaction attributes but not the media content itself.

Process then proceeds to block . At block each training media content dataset in the plurality of training media content datasets corresponds to a different social interaction attribute of the plurality of social interaction attributes. The mapping maintains a relationship between the each of the plurality of training media content datasets and the corresponding social interaction attribute of the plurality of social interaction attributes. In one non limiting example the dataset containing all the user generated rating values such as 1.2 4.1 5.0 5.0 etc. is mapped to the social interaction attribute ratings. In some embodiments the mapping may be implemented as a table. In one embodiment each row corresponds to a different social interaction attribute and each column corresponds to a different media content file within the training media content corpus. In one non limiting example row one may contain all the ratings values and column one may contain all the data corresponding to the social interaction attributes for video 1. 

In other embodiments the mapping may be implemented as a plurality of tables. In one embodiment each table represents a single social interaction attribute where each row represents a unique value within the training media content dataset column one contains all of the unique values and column two contains the frequency that each unique value occurs in the training media content corpus. In other embodiments each dataset may be maintained as an individual array where each array represents a different social interaction attribute and each element of the array represents data from a different media content file. In one non limiting example the array ratings may contain the user generated rating values of all videos in a training corpus where the elements of the array are individual user generated ratings such as 1.2 4.1 5.0 5.0 etc. After block process returns to a calling process to perform other actions.

Process then proceeds to block where at least one of the plurality of social interaction attributes to be nominally factored may be selected. In one embodiment a plurality of the plurality of social interaction attributes social interaction attributes may be selected for the corresponding data to be nominally factored. In some embodiments the selection of the at least one of the plurality social interaction attributes may be random. In other embodiments the selection of the at least one of the plurality social interaction attributes may be determined by a user.

In some embodiments the at least one of the plurality social interaction attributes may be selected based on how the data corresponding to the at least one of the plurality of social interaction attribute was collected such as implicit usage or explicit action. In one embodiment only implicit usage social interaction attributes may be selected. In another embodiment only explicit actions may be selected. Yet in another embodiment a combination of implicit usages and explicit action social interaction attributes may be selected. In one embodiment the at least one of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be selected for the corresponding data to be nominally factored may be the ratings social interaction attribute. In another embodiment the at least one of the plurality of social interaction attributes may be selected for the corresponding data to be nominally factored may be a number of play commands a number of pause commands a number of scrub commands e.g. fast forward and rewind and a synchronous social activity session duration.

The selection of the at least one of the plurality of social interaction attributes for the corresponding data to be nominally factored may be based on whether the at least one of the plurality of social interaction attribute may be an implicit usage or an explicit action. In one embodiment only implicit usage social interaction attributes may be selected. In another embodiment only explicit actions may be selected. Yet in another embodiment a combination of implicit usage and explicit action social interaction attributes may be selected.

Processing next to block at least one of the plurality of training media content dataset that is mapped to the selected at least one of the plurality of social interaction attributes is selected. Nominal factoring typically employs numerical values. Thus the training media content datasets and not the social interaction attribute are typically nominally factored. However numerical values might be assigned to the social interaction attributes such that they may be factored. In any event at least one of the plurality of training media content dataset itself is selected for nominal factoring based on the mapping to the selected at least one of the plurality of social interaction attribute.

Process continues to block where all unique values within the selected at least one of the plurality of training media content dataset are identified. In one embodiment each unique value within the selected at least one of the plurality of training media content dataset may be recorded as an array.

Continuing to block each unique value in the selected at least one of the plurality of training media content dataset is assigned a discrete unordered bucket. When a unique value is assigned a bucket it is transposed into that bucket. This transposition redefines the unique value as a bucket reference value. Each bucket has a numerical reference number. In one embodiment each bucket reference value may be a discrete positive integer. Each unique value is assigned a discrete bucket such that the total number of buckets equals the total number of unique values in selected at least one of the plurality of training media content dataset. In one non limiting example a unique user generated rating value of 4.1 may be transposed into bucket 2 where the bucket 2 reference value is 2. Thus in this non limiting example the unique value of 4.1 is transposed to 2.

The bucket reference value may be unrelated to the unique value assigned to that bucket. Rather the buckets are referenced by a numerical value for use in a classifier. Similarly the buckets do not have a mathematical ordering which in turn removes any ordering between the unique values when the unique values are transposed into the buckets. In one non limiting example assume a unique user generated rating value 2.0 is transposed to bucket 1 and a unique user generated rating value 4.1 is transposed to bucket 2. Since the buckets are unordered bucket 1 is not a smaller value or less important than bucket 2 nor is there any mathematical difference between the unique values in the buckets. The important aspect is that unique user generated rating value 2.0 is different than unique user generated rating value 4.1 which is accomplished by transposing each unique value into discrete unordered buckets. 

Process then proceeds to block where each datum in the selected at least one of the plurality of training media content datasets is transposed into the corresponding bucket. Each datum in the selected at least one of the plurality of training media content datasets is transposed into the bucket whose unique value is equal to the datum value. Thus each datum is redefined as the transposed bucket reference value.

In some embodiments each data item may be changed to the corresponding bucket reference and a separate mapping is maintained between the bucket reference and the unique value. In other embodiments each bucket may contain three pieces of information 1 the unique value assigned to that bucket 2 the bucket reference and 3 the frequency the unique value occurs in the at least one of the plurality of training media content datasets. In one embodiment each bucket may be maintained as an array with the bucket reference as an element the unique value as an element and the frequency as an element. In one embodiment each nominally factored dataset may be maintained as a table where each row is a bucket one column contains the bucket reference one column contains the unique value and one column contains the frequency of the unique value in the at least one of the plurality of training media content datasets.

Process then proceeds to decision block where a determination is made whether to nominally factor the another one of the plurality of training media content datasets mapped to another one of the plurality of social interaction attributes. In some embodiments only one of the plurality of training media content dataset may be nominally factored. In one embodiment about asynchronous social activity only the training media content dataset may be mapped to a user generated rating social interaction attribute is nominally factored. In other embodiments a plurality of the plurality of training media content datasets may be nominally factored. If it is determined that another one of the plurality of training media content datasets are to be nominally factored processing loops back to block otherwise processing returns to a calling process.

Process then proceeds to block where non nominally factored training media content datasets are received. In some embodiments the received non nominally factored training media content datasets may contain the data retrieved from the training media content corpus. In other embodiments the received non nominally factored training media content datasets may contain unique values and the frequency of the unique value in the training media content dataset.

Process may then proceed in some embodiments to optional block . At optional block a prior determined classification is received to allow for feedback to retrain the classifier. After a classifier is trained the trained classifier may be executed on one or more target media content. Each trained classifier execution results in a determined classification output. The output may then be utilized to retrain the classifier. In one embodiment the trained classifier accepts the determined classification output as an input parameter to retrain the classifier.

Process then proceeds to block . At block a classifier is trained. Each of the plurality of training media content datasets is utilized by the classifier as an input parameter to train the classifier. The classifier may be any kind of classifier including but not limited to Na ve Bayes classifier decision trees support vector machine or the like. After block process returns to a calling process.

If at decision block the obtained plurality of target media content variables is about synchronous social activity then process proceeds to block . At block the target media content concerning synchronous social activity is determined. The target media content is determined by detecting a communication of the target media content. In one embodiment the communication is detected with a network device such as network device of . A communication is detected when the target media content is shared or experienced by one or more users. In one embodiment the detected communication may be a user accessing the media content while in a synchronous social activity session. In another embodiment the detected communication may be a user initiating a request to classify a target media content based on historic synchronous social activity. As noted above the communication may also be a monitored communication such as might arise when communications with a network device is being monitored. For example communications with content service device that are associated with media content might be monitored.

In any event processing continues to block from block where social interaction attributes about synchronous social activity are selected. The selection is dependent on the same selection of social interaction attributes for training the classifier such as the selection of block of . In one non limiting example if a play command count a scrub count and a session duration are selected to train the classifier then the play command count the scrub count and the session duration may also be selected for implementing the trained classifier. Again this dependency provides that the characteristics used as input to the trained classifier are the same as the characteristics used to train the classifier. After block process proceeds from block to block which is discussed in further detail below.

If at decision block the obtained plurality of target media content variables is not about synchronous social activity then process proceeds from block to block . At block target media content concerning asynchronous social activity is determined. The target media content is determined by detecting a communication of a target media content. In one embodiment the communication is detected with a network device such as network device of . A communication is detected when the target media content is shared or experienced by one or more users. In one embodiment the detected communication may be a user accessing the target media content such as viewing the target media content downloading the target media content or the like. In another embodiment the detected communication may be a user initiating a request to classify the target media content based on historic asynchronous social activity. Again the communication may also be a monitored communication that is associated with media content.

Process then proceeds to block . At block social interaction attributes about asynchronous social activity are selected. The selection of block is dependent on the same selection of social interaction attributes for training the classifier such as the selection of block of . In one non limiting example if a user generated rating a duration and a view count are selected to train the classifier then the user generated rating the duration and the view count may also be selected for implementing the trained classifier.

From block and block process proceeds to block . At block the plurality of target media content variables is obtained from the target media content. Each target media content variable corresponds to a different social interaction attribute. In some embodiments the plurality of target media content variables may be obtained from target media content metadata. In other embodiments the plurality of target media content variables may be obtained from a storage media which maintains the plurality of target media content variables but not the media content itself. In one embodiment the plurality of target media content variables may be observed from a social activity and stored separate from the target media content.

Process then proceeds to block . At block each target media content variable may be mapped to the corresponding social interaction attribute. The mapping maintains a relationship between the media content variable and the corresponding social interaction attribute. In one non limiting example the target media content user generated rating value 4.1 is mapped to the social interaction attribute ratings. In some embodiments the mapping may be implemented by using a single array for all target media content variables where each element of the array corresponds to a different social interaction attribute. In other embodiments each target media content variable is stored as a separate variable where each variable corresponds to a different social interaction attribute. After block process returns to a calling process.

Process then proceeds to block where one of the plurality of target media content variable that is mapped to the selected social interaction attribute is selected. Proceeding next to block the selected target media content variable is transposed into a corresponding bucket. The corresponding bucket is based on the discrete buckets that are defined by nominally factoring the training media content datasets. Thus the selected target media content variable is redefined as the transposed bucket reference value. In one non limiting example if the training media content dataset mapped to ratings is nominally factored and a user generated rating value of 4.1 is transposed into bucket 2 which has a bucket reference value of 2 then a target media content variable with the user generated rating value of 4.1 will also be transposed into bucket 2. 

Process then proceeds to decision block where a determination is made whether to nominally factor another target media content variable. If so then processing loops back to block otherwise processing returns to a calling process.

Continuing to block the trained classifier determines a classification for the target media content by providing the plurality of target media content variables to a trained classifier such as the trained classifier shown by process of . To determine the classification the trained classifier is executed using the at least one nominally factored target media content variables and the non nominally factored target media content variables as inputs to the trained classifier. The output from the execution of the trained classifier is the determined classification. In one embodiment the classifier determination may be a single classification. In another embodiment the classifier determination may be an output of all possible classification determinations and a probability for each possible classification determination. In another embodiment the classifier determination may be a yes no determination. In one embodiment the classifier may determine a genre of the target media content such as but not limited to comedy sports news music people entertainment film or the like. In another embodiment the classifier may determine a virality prediction. The virality prediction provides a determination as to whether the target media content will go viral or not.

Process then proceeds to decision block . At decision block a decision is made whether the determined classification by the classifier is a genre determination. If at decision block the determined classification is a genre determination then process proceeds from decision block to block . At block the genre determination is returned. In one embodiment the returned genre determination may be a single genre. In another embodiment the returned genre determination may be all possible genres and a probability for each possible genre. After block process returns to a calling process.

If at decision block the determined classification is not a genre determination then process proceeds from decision block to decision block . At decision block a decision is made whether the determined classification by the classifier is a virality prediction.

If at decision block the determined classification is a virality prediction then process proceeds from decision block to block . At block the virality prediction is returned. In one embodiment the virality prediction may return a yes or no determination. In another embodiment the virality prediction may return a probability of the target media content going viral. After block process returns to a calling process.

If at decision block the determined classification is not a virality prediction then process proceeds from decision block to block . At block the determined classification is returned. In some embodiments the determined classification may be any type of classification based on a user defined classification system. In some embodiment the returned determined classification may be a single classification. In other embodiments the returned determined classification may be all possible classifications and a probability for each possible classification. After block process returns to a calling process.

Proceeding to decision block a determination is made whether the target media content has a user defined classification. The user defined classification is a classification for the target media content that may be generated by a user and is associated with the target media content. In one embodiment the user defined classification may be the classification that is provided by the creator of the target media content. In another embodiment the user defined classification may be provided by the original uploader of the target media content. In another embodiment the user defined classification may be provided during or after the target media content is experienced by the user. In one non limiting example after a user is finished watching a video the video player may prompt the user to select the classification for the video that the user just finished watching. In some embodiments the user defined classification may be contained in target media content metadata. In other embodiments the user defined classification may be stored in an electronic medium separate from the target media content.

If at decision block the target media content does not have a user defined classification then process may proceed in some embodiments from decision block to optional block . At optional block the target media content is tagged with the determined classification. Tagging target media content with the determined classification creates an association between the target media content and the determined classification. In one embodiment target media content metadata may contain the determined classification tag. In another embodiment the determined classification tag may be stored in a storage media with a link to the media content. After option block process proceeds from option block to block which is discussed in further detail below.

If at decision block the target media content has a user defined classification then process proceeds from decision block to decision block . At decision block a decision is made whether the determined classification is the same as the user defined classification of the target media content.

If at decision block the user defined classification of the target media content is not the same as the determined classification then process may proceed in some embodiments from decision block to option block . At option block the determined classification may be provided to the classifier to employ the classification as a feedback to retrain the classifier. After a classifier is trained the trained classifier may be executed on one or more target media content. Each trained classifier execution results in a determined classification output. The output may then be utilized to retrain the classifier. In one embodiment the trained classifier accepts the determined classification output as an input parameter to retrain the classifier. After option block process proceeds from option block to block which is discussed in further detail below.

If at decision block the user defined classification of the target media content is the same as the determined classification then process proceeds from decision block to block . At block another media content file is recommended based on the determined classification. In some embodiments the recommended media content and the target media content may be of the same class. In one non limiting example if the determined classification is the genre comedy then another comedy video is recommended. In other embodiments the recommended media content and the target media content may not be of the same class.

Process then proceeds to block . At block the recommended media content is provided to a user. In one embodiment the recommended media content may be provided to the user as a link. In another embodiment the recommended media content may be provided to the user as an option to experience additional media content. In one non limiting example the user may be prompted with a yes no question whether the user wants to view additional videos that are the same class as the video that the user just finished viewing. In one embodiment the recommended media content may be downloaded onto the client device such as client device of .

In some embodiments the recommended media content may be automatically provided to the user. In other embodiments the recommended media content may not be automatically provided to the user. Rather the user has the ability to turn off recommended media content. After block process returns to a calling process.

It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by computer program instructions. These program instructions may be provided to a processor to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute on the processor create means for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may be executed by a processor to cause a series of operational steps to be performed by the processor to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the processor to provide steps for implementing the actions specified in the flowchart block or blocks. The computer program instructions may also cause at least some of the operational steps shown in the blocks of the flowchart to be performed in parallel. Moreover some of the steps may also be performed across more than one processor such as might arise in a multi processor computer system. In addition one or more blocks or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration may also be performed concurrently with other blocks or combinations of blocks or even in a different sequence than illustrated without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

Accordingly blocks of the flowchart illustration support combinations of means for performing the specified actions combinations of steps for performing the specified actions and program instruction means for performing the specified actions. It will also be understood that each block of the flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems which perform the specified actions or steps or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

