---

title: Content delivery technology
abstract: Content delivery technology, in which a request to download a content file to a downloader device is received from a remote device and the downloader device associated with the received request is identified. Address information for the content file associated with the received request is determined and a communication session is established with the downloader device based on the identification of the downloader device associated with the received request. The determined address information for the content file is sent to the downloader device over the established communication session, thereby enabling the downloader device to download the content file associated with the request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650283&OS=08650283&RS=08650283
owner: PurpleComm Inc.
number: 08650283
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100607
---
Content viewers today are exposed to an overwhelming amount of information and are challenged by the degree of interaction and personalization needed to manage this massive amount of information. In an era of digital communications a user may be confused by an array of technology including traditional analog televisions DVRs Digital Video Recorders PVRs Personal Video Recorders media centers EPG Electronic Program Guide based systems Internet related content and traditional remote control devices.

In one aspect a method of controlling a downloader device to download content includes receiving at a network server system and from a remote device a request to download a content file to a downloader device that is different than the remote device. The request includes identification information sufficient to enable the network server system to identify the downloader device. The method also includes based on the identification information identifying by the network server system and from among multiple different downloader devices the downloader device associated with the received request and determining by the network server system and based on the received request address information for the content file associated with the received request. The method further includes establishing by the network server system a communication session with the downloader device based on the identification of the downloader device associated with the received request and sending the determined address information for the content file associated with the received request to the downloader device over the established communication session thereby enabling the downloader device to download the content file associated with the request.

Implementations may include one or more of the following features. For example the method may include receiving from a web server that provides content file directory and listing a request to download a content file that is listed by the web server and that has been selected by the user through the web server. In this example the request may include a link related to the content file. In addition the method may include extracting the link related to the content file from the received request and sending to the downloader device over the established communication session the extracted link related to the content file thereby enabling the downloader device to download the content file using the extracted link.

In some implementations the method may include receiving from a communications server an electronic communication having a recipient address that corresponds to at least one of the multiple different downloader devices and including a link related to a content file and mapping the recipient address of the received electronic communication to the downloader device. In these implementations the method may include parsing the link related to the content file from the received electronic communication and sending to the downloader device over the established communication session the parsed link related to the content file thereby enabling the downloader device to download the content file using the parsed link.

In some examples the method may include receiving from a communications server an electronic communication having a recipient address that corresponds to at least one of the multiple different downloader devices and including an attached content file and mapping the recipient address of the received electronic communication to the downloader device. In these examples the method may include extracting the attached content file from the received electronic communication and determining whether a previously stored version of the extracted content file exists in electronic storage accessible by the network server system. In response to a determination that a previously stored version of the extracted content file exists in electronic storage accessible by the network server system download information that enables downloading of the previously stored version of the extracted content file may be identified and the address information for the content file associated with the received request may be determined as the identified download information. In response to a determination that a previously stored version of the extracted content file does not exist in electronic storage accessible by the network server system a new version of the extracted content file may be stored in electronic storage accessible by the network server system download information may be created that enables downloading of the new version of the extracted content file and the address information for the content file associated with the received request may be determined as the created download information.

Further the method may include segmenting the extracted content file into multiple segments generating a download control file that identifies the multiple segments of the extracted content file and includes a tracker that identifies one or more peers in a network at which one or more of the multiple segments of the extracted content file are available for download and creating a link to the download control file. In addition the method may include determining the address information for the content file associated with the received request as the link to the download control file.

Also the method may include determining by the network server system and based on the received request whether the attached content file is to be maintained as a private file. In response to a determination that the attached content file is to be maintained as a private file access to the attached content file may be controlled to prevent downloader devices other than the downloader device from accessing the attached content file. In response to a determination that the attached content file is to be maintained as a public file the attached content file may be made available to downloader devices other than the downloader device.

In some implementations the method may include receiving from a communications server an electronic communication having a recipient address that corresponds to at least one of the multiple different downloader devices and including a link to streaming content and mapping the recipient address of the received electronic communication to the downloader device. In these implementations the method may include parsing the link to streaming content from the received electronic communication determining that the parsed link corresponds to streaming content and in response to the determination that the parsed link corresponds to streaming content determining whether a previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content exists in electronic storage accessible by the network server system. In response to a determination that a previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content exists in electronic storage accessible by the network server system download information may be identified that enables downloading of the previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content and the address information for the content file associated with the received request may be determined as the identified download information. In response to a determination that a previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content does not exist in electronic storage accessible by the network server system the streaming content may be retrieved using the parsed link the retrieved content may be formatted into a new downloadable and playable file the new downloadable and playable file may be stored in electronic storage accessible by the network server system download information may be created that enables downloading of the new downloadable and playable file and the address information for the content file associated with the received request may be determined as the created download information. The retrieved content may be transcoded.

In some examples the method may include receiving from a communications server an electronic communication having a recipient address that corresponds to at least one of the multiple different downloader devices and including a link to streaming content and mapping the recipient address of the received electronic communication to the downloader device. In these examples the method may include parsing the link to streaming content from the received electronic communication determining that the parsed link corresponds to streaming content and in response to the determination that the parsed link corresponds to streaming content retrieving the streaming content using the parsed link. The method also may include based on the retrieved content determining whether a previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content exists in electronic storage accessible by the network server system. In response to a determination that a previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content exists in electronic storage accessible by the network server system download information may be identified that enables downloading of the previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content the address information for the content file associated with the received request may be determined as the identified download information and the retrieved content may be discarded. In response to a determination that a previously stored downloadable file of the streaming content does not exist in electronic storage accessible by the network server system the retrieved content may be formatted into a new downloadable and playable file the new downloadable and playable file may be stored in electronic storage accessible by the network server system download information may be created that enables downloading of the new downloadable and playable file and the address information for the content file associated with the received request may be determined as the created download information.

The method may include receiving from a user device a login request to log into the network server system authenticating by the network server system the login request and identifying a user associated with the login request and subsequent to authenticating the login request receiving from the user device a link related to a content file. The method also may include identifying the downloader device corresponding to the user associated with the login request and identifying the link related to the content file received from the user device. The method further may include sending to the downloader device over the established communication session the link related to the content file received from the user device thereby enabling the downloader device to download the content file using the link.

Further the method may include in response to receiving the request to download the content file to the downloader device identifying at least one attribute of a user and or a device from which the request was received performing an authentication process using the identified at least one attribute of the user and or the device and determining whether or not to process the received request based on results of the authentication process. In response to a determination to process the received request the downloader device may be controlled to download the content file associated with the received request. In response to a determination not to process the received request the received request may be ignored and an error message may be sent to the user and or the device from which the request was received.

In addition the method may include determining whether the user and or the device is eligible to control the downloader device to download files by performing at least one of whitelisting and blacklisting. The method may include determining that the user and or the device is eligible to download a subset of available content to the downloader device based on a type of the available content and determining a type of the content file associated with the received request. The method also may include comparing the determined type of the content file associated with the received request to the type of available content the user and or the device is eligible to download and determining whether the user and or the device is eligible to download the content file associated with the received request based on the comparison of the determined type of the content file associated with the received request to the type of available content the user and or the device is eligible to download.

Further the identification information sufficient to enable the network server system to identify the downloader device may include a user identifier and the method may include mapping the user identifier to a device identifier for the downloader device that corresponds to the user identifier. The identification information sufficient to enable the network server system to identify the downloader device also may include a device identifier for the downloader device and the method may include parsing the device identifier for the downloader device from the received request.

In some implementations the method may include sending a command to download content using the determined address information for the content file associated with the received request to the downloader device over the established communication session. The method also may include assigning by the network server system communication addresses to the multiple different downloader devices controlled by the network server system and allowing a user of the network server system to push content to the user s downloader device by sending an electronic communication to a communication address assigned to the user s downloader device by the network server system. The method further may include controlling at least one downloader device of the multiple different downloader devices to differentiate content based on an identity of a user that requested the content to be downloaded to the at least one downloader device such that content downloaded in response to requests received from a first user is distinguished from content downloaded in response to requests received from a second user that is different than the first user.

In another aspect a system includes at least one computer and at least one computer readable medium coupled to the at least one computer having instructions stored thereon which when executed by the at least one computer causes the at least one computer to perform operations. The operations include receiving from a remote device a request to download a content file to a downloader device that is different than the remote device. The request includes identification information sufficient to enable the network server system to identify the downloader device. The operations also include based on the identification information identifying from among multiple different downloader devices the downloader device associated with the received request and determining based on the received request address information for the content file associated with the received request. The operations further include establishing a communication session with the downloader device based on the identification of the downloader device associated with the received request and sending the determined address information for the content file associated with the received request to the downloader device over the established communication session thereby enabling the downloader device to download the content file associated with the request.

In yet another aspect at least one computer readable storage medium is encoded with at least one computer program comprising instructions that when executed operate to cause a computer to perform operations. The operations include receiving from a remote device a request to download a content file to a downloader device that is different than the remote device. The request includes identification information sufficient to enable the network server system to identify the downloader device. The operations also include based on the identification information identifying from among multiple different downloader devices the downloader device associated with the received request and determining based on the received request address information for the content file associated with the received request. The operations further include establishing a communication session with the downloader device based on the identification of the downloader device associated with the received request and sending the determined address information for the content file associated with the received request to the downloader device over the established communication session thereby enabling the downloader device to download the content file associated with the request.

The details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other potential features and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Multiple types of content such as audio e.g. music podcasts video and still images e.g. photographs may be made available over the content delivery network . Licensed and license free content may be made available. For example licensed content may be acquired from a content owner .

Content may be made available from a variety of sources. For example Internet content may be accessed from an Internet link e.g. URL Uniform Resource Locator . Content may also be accessed from peer to peer networks. For example content may be accessed from one or more BitTorrent clients which are part of one or more BitTorrent swarms . Content may be accessed from other sources such as from a television broadcast e.g. MSO Multiple System Operator cable satellite local or from content e.g. photographs audio previously recorded video available from devices e.g. DVR stereo computer DVD Digital Video Disc player connected to a user s home network and or located in a user s home.

Content curators may use a content curator portal to define custom channels which may be made available for subscription by end users . The content curators may be commissioned to search for select and organize multiple types of content from various sources into channels. Content curators may for example organize channels by topic or genre. Content curators may for example select licensed content license free content BitTorrent content or content from their private collection to name a few examples.

Channels may be offered for free to end users or end users may subscribe to channels on a fee basis. Users may rate or rank channels or content curators based for example on programming selection sequencing and quality. Content curators may be promoted for example based on popularity.

Content owners may be compensated for the use of licensed content that they own which is used in channels defined by content curators . For example the system may provide support for digital rights management DRM . By allowing access to their licensed content content owners may experience increased distribution and revenue and targeted exposure in channels focused on providing content related to a topic of the licensed content . Multiple revenue agreements may be possible such as per use agreements subscription revenue sharing and advertisement revenue sharing.

A content curator may work with one or more advertisers such as an ad agency to include advertisements on a channel. For example an advertisement may be displayed if a user switches which channel is being viewed or when a program on a selected channel finishes. As another example advertisements may be displayed on the display of a remote control device such as while a program is being displayed on a television. Content curators advertisers and content owners may share advertising revenue. Sharing in advertising revenue may provide an incentive for content curators to create interesting and popular channels. A content curator may work with one or more advertisers to create one or more advertisements which are customized and targeted for one or more particular channels. End users may customize advertisement viewing preferences such as by specifying preferred topics preferred or excluded companies region preferences etc.

Advertisers may use an advertiser portal to upload advertisements and to control advertisement publication. Advertisers may define and apply advertisement insertion rules to particular advertisements and or may allow a content curator to decide when and how to insert the advertisements into channels defined by the content curator . APIs Application Programming Interfaces may be provided which allow advertisers to enable the system to interface with standard advertisement inventory management systems to allow for control and management of advertisements . Various advertisement pricing plans may be supported such as individually priced ads or bulk pricing. Other advertising features may be included such as online purchasing of items or providing customer contact options.

Advertisers content curators and content owners may access user viewing behavior data. Advertisers may access user viewing behavior data such as viewed channels viewed content viewed advertisements advertisement display frequency advertisement viewed length user actions during advertisement display user characteristics advertisement and content view times advertisement and content view counts and hosting channel information to monitor reach and performance of advertising campaigns. Advertisements may be targeted to specific users based on recorded user viewing behavior data. Content curators may access user viewing behavior data to learn about behaviors of end users who subscribe to their channels. Content owners may access user viewing behavior data to learn about their fan base such as accessing information about user demographics time of day of access and user actions during content display. Content presentation and playback may be customized and personalized for a particular end user based specifically on recorded user viewing behavior of the particular end user and generally on recorded user viewing behavior of all users.

User viewing behavior data may be captured for example by a media player and or a downloader device . The media player and or the downloader device may play content included or ordered on a channel defined by a content curator . In some implementations the media player may play content downloaded from the content delivery network by the downloader device . In some implementations the media player and the downloader device are different logical functions of the same physical device. In other implementations the media player and the downloader device are different physical devices. In some implementations the media player is a software application which may be executed for example on a computing device such as a desktop or laptop computer.

The media player and or the downloader device may be connected to external media storage devices respectively. The external media storage devices may be for example USB Universal Serial Bus drives. The external media storage devices may be used for example to transfer data to from the media player or the downloader device respectively such as to transfer data to from a computing device.

The media player and or the downloader device may communicate wirelessly with one or more remote control devices . The end user may navigate through channels and perform other functions using the remote control device . The remote control device may communicate e.g. using Infrared IR technology of radio frequency RF technology with the television the media player and or the downloader device . The remote control device also may communicate over a network with the media player and or the downloader device to control functions of the media player or the downloader device . The remote control device may include a small display screen that displays preview content and or advertisements.

The media player and or the downloader device may download content from the content delivery network without consuming resources of a computing device owned by the end user . For example content may be downloaded into the home of an end user without using resources of a personal computer owned by the end user . The media player and the downloader device may use less electricity than a personal computer thus reducing the electric bill of the end user . The media player and or the downloader device may connect to other computing devices connected on a user s home network. The media player and or the downloader device may include built in functionality to communicate with and download information from a peer to peer network such as the BitTorrent swarm .

The end user may search for and subscribe to content using an end user content search portal . For example the end user content search portal may provide a directory listing of available defined channels. The directory listing may be organized in a hierarchy of categories and sub categories. A particular channel may appear in one or more categories or sub categories. The end user content search portal may also provide a search function to allow end users to search for available defined channels based on a keyword search. As another example users may search for channels based on other criteria such as sorting channels based on channel or content curator popularity or ranking. An end user may subscribe to a defined channel for example by selecting a channel link displayed in a directory listing or in a list of search results.

The end user may also search for and initiate download of individual content items to the downloader device using a partner site such as a BitTorrent search engine . As another example the end user may send an email which includes a content link to an email address associated with their downloader device to initiate an automatic download to the downloader device of the content linked to by the content link. The content link may refer to a content file available on the Internet and may be a reference to a video resource available from a streaming video website. The end user may send an email with an attachment to an email address associated with the downloader device to initiate a download of the attachment to the downloader device . The end user may use an end user content download portal to search for and to select content to download to the downloader device .

The content and directory database stores information about content and also information about defined channels. Content curators may use a content curator portal to define channels and to manage defined channels. The content curator portal may display a listing of licensed and license free content available in the content and directory database . The content curator portal may also provide a search function which allows the content curator to search for content available in the content and directory database and to also search for content included in the private collection of the content curator or content available on the Internet such as content available from peer to peer networks such as BitTorrent .

The content curator portal may communicate with a content curator server . For example a channel definition defined using the content curator portal may be sent to the content curator server which may communicate with the server system to request that the channel definition be stored in the content and directory database . As another example information for existing channel definitions associated with a particular content curator may be retrieved from the content and directory database and sent from the content curator portal server to the content curator portal for display.

In some implementations the content curator portal server is one physical server computing device and in other implementations the content curator portal server includes multiple physical server computing devices. Similarly in some implementations the server system is one physical server computing device and in other implantations the server system includes multiple physical server computing devices. In some implementations multiple physical server computing devices are used with some or all server computing devices implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system . In some implementations one physical server computing device is used with the one physical server device implementing both the content curator portal server and the server system .

The network may be one or more public or private wired or wireless networks such as the Internet or may be a Session Initiated Protocol SIP network such as the PsipTN network offered by TelTel . The network may include for example one or more of the Internet Wide Area Networks WANs Local Area Networks LANs analog or digital wired and wireless telephone networks e.g. a PSTN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN and Digital Subscriber Line xDSL radio television cable satellite and or any other delivery or tunneling mechanism for carrying data services. The network may include multiple networks or subnetworks each of which may include for example a wired or wireless data pathway.

Content may be downloaded to one or more user media player downloader devices included in a user s home network . For example content corresponding to a user subscribed channel may be automatically downloaded to the media player downloader device in response to a user selection of a corresponding channel. As another example a user may search for and download content to the media player downloader device . A user may using a remote user device monitor and manage user initiated downloads. The remote user device may be any type of electronic device configured to exchange communications with the server system over a network. The remote user device may be a general purpose computer e.g. a desktop personal computer a workstation or a laptop computer a mobile or wireless device or a device designed for a specific function e.g. a cell phone a smart phone a tablet PC a personal digital assistant PDA etc. .

The system receives a request to download a content file to a media player downloader device that is located in a user s home . For example the system may receive a request corresponding to a user selecting a link on a download website or on a search engine website. The system may receive a link to a content file or a link to download information e.g. a BitTorrent torrent file for a content file. As another example the system may receive an electronic communication e.g. email text message or instant message from an end user which may include a link to a content file a link to download information for a content file a link to streaming content or an attached content file.

The system identifies the media player downloader device associated with the received request . For example the request received by the system may include a user identifier and the user identifier may be parsed from the request and mapped to a device identifier e.g. using a table which maps user identifiers to device identifiers . As another example the request received by the system may include a device identifier for a particular media player downloader device.

The system determines address information for the content file associated with the received request . The address information may include an address on a network at which the content file is made available for access e.g. an Internet address . For instance the system may identify a torrent file received with the request. The torrent file may include metadata about the content file to be shared and about a tracker e.g. a computer that coordinates distribution of the content file. Peers that want to download the content file first obtain the torrent file and connect to the tracker to identify other peers from which to download pieces of the content file.

As another example if the content is streaming content or an attached file the system may determine whether the streaming content or attached file content already exists in storage. If the streaming content or attached file content already exists in storage the system may identify and retrieve download information e.g. a torrent file for the streaming content or attached file content. If the streaming content or attached file content does not exist in storage the system may store the streaming content or attached file content in storage and create and store download information e.g. a torrent file for the streaming content or attached file content. If a torrent file is created it may be associated with a private tracker e.g. to prevent unauthorized users from accessing the streaming content . Streaming content may be retrieved from a streaming website.

The system establishes a communication session with the media player downloader device . For example a SIP Session Initiation Protocol session may be established between the media player downloader device and one or more servers such as a host user agent server or a SIP edge server. The system may implement ICE Interactive Connectivity Establishment and may employ STUN Session Traversal Utilities for Network address translation and TURN Traversal Using Relay Network address translation components as part of a NAT Network Address Translation traversal solution. NAT and firewall traversal describes techniques that establish and maintain TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol network connections traversing NAT gateways. ICE is a technique for discovering optimal solutions for NAT traversal for UDP User Datagram Protocol based multimedia sessions established with an offer answer model. STUN techniques may identify a public address operated through a NAT or multiple NATs together with a category of NAT in use and an Internet side port associated by the NAT with a particular local port. With the public address NAT category and port information STUN is able to organize UDP communications between two hosts located behind NAT routers. TURN is a protocol that allows for an element behind a NAT or firewall to receive incoming data over TCP or UDP connections.

The system sends the determined address information for the content file to the media player downloader device . For example a torrent file associated with the content file or a link to a torrent file associated with the content file may be sent to the media player downloader device. If the address information is a link to a torrent file the media player downloader device may download the torrent file e.g. using HTTP over the Internet . The media player downloader device may use the received or downloaded torrent file to download the associated content file from one or more BitTorrent clients in one or more BitTorrent swarms.

In response to a user selecting a link on the search engine a request to download an associated content file may be sent to an HTTP HyperText Transfer Protocol server over a content delivery network . The request to download the content file may be forwarded to a host user agent server . In some implementations the HTTP server and the host user agent server are the same physical server device and the host user agent server is a logical process running on the HTTP server .

The host user agent server may establish a session with the media player downloader device . The session may be for example a SIP session. A SIP proxy server may be used to route the request to download the content file to a server which is closer to the media player downloader device than the host user agent server such as a SIP edge server .

After a session with the media player downloader device is established the host user agent server or the SIP edge server may send a link related to the requested content file to the media player downloader device . For example a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the requested content may be sent to the media player downloader device . In response to receiving the link related to the requested content the media player downloader device may for example use the link to download a torrent file using HTTP over the Internet. The media player downloader device may use the torrent file to download the requested content file such as from one or more BitTorrent clients included in one or more BitTorrent swarms .

The system is described in more detail below with respect to . illustrates a process for sending information for downloading a content file to a media player downloader device. The operations of the process are described generally as being performed by a web server a network server system and a media player downloader device . The operations of the process may be performed exclusively by the web server the network server system and the media player downloader device or the operations of the process may be performed partly or entirely by another system or by a combination of other systems. In some implementations operations of the process may be performed by one or more processors included in one or more electronic devices.

The web server receives user selection of a content file . For example the user may select a content file using a search engine. For example in reference to to select a content file the end user may use the search engine to select a link related to the content file in a directory or in a search results list displayed in the search engine where the search engine is served by a web server. The web server serving the search engine may for example receive the user selected link from a web browser used by the end user .

The web server sends a request with a link related to the content file to the network server system . In some implementations the user selected link refers to the network server system . For example in reference to the user selected link may refer to the HTTP server . For example the search engine may display an embedded user interface area e.g. an inline frame or IFRAME associated with the HTTP server . Links displayed in the embedded user interface area such as the user selected link may refer to or may be associated with the HTTP server . In some implementations the user selected link includes a second link which relates to the requested content file. For example the second link may be embedded in the user selected link and may be a link to a BitTorrent file associated with the requested content file.

The network server system receives the request . For example in reference to the HTTP server may receive a request from the search engine . In some examples the request is sent using HTTP. The request may include for example some or all of a user identifier a device identifier and a link related to the requested content file e.g. a link to a download file such as a BitTorrent torrent file .

The network server system identifies a media player downloader device based on the request . For example the request received by the network server system may include a user identifier and the user identifier may be parsed from the request and mapped to a device identifier e.g. using a table which maps user identifiers to device identifiers . For example the user identifier may be mapped to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device . In the example of the HTTP server may map a user identifier included in a request received from the search engine to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device .

As another example the request received by the network server system may include a device identifier for a particular media player downloader device. The network server system may parse the device identifier from the request and may identify for example the media player downloader device based on the parsed device identifier.

The network server system establishes a session with the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device establishes a session with the network server system . For example a SIP session may be established between the network server system and the media player downloader device . In the example of a SIP session may be established between the host user agent server and the media player downloader device . In some examples a session is also established between the media player downloader device and the SIP edge server .

The network server system extracts a link to a download file from the request . For example a link to a BitTorrent torrent file may be parsed and extracted from the request. The network server system may validate the link e.g. confirm that the link refers to an available file .

The network server system sends the extracted link to the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device receives the link to the download file . For example the extracted link may be sent using a SIP media path over the established SIP session e.g. using a UDP based Data Transfer UDT connection . In the example of the host user agent server may send a link to a BitTorrent torrent file to the media player downloader device .

The media player downloader device retrieves a download file using the link . For example the media player downloader device may use the link to the download file to retrieve a BitTorrent torrent file over the Internet using HTTP. In the example of the media player downloader device may download the torrent file .

The media player downloader device uses the download file to download the content file from peers . For example a retrieved BitTorrent torrent file may be used to download the content file from one or more BitTorrent clients. In the example of the media player downloader device may use a retrieved version of the BitTorrent torrent file to download the content file from one or more BitTorrent clients in one or more BitTorrent swarms . The one or more BitTorrent clients may include other media player downloader devices associated with the content delivery network .

The media player downloader device prepares the content file for rendering . For example the content file may be transcoded decrypted and or decompressed. In some implementations some or all of a transcoded or otherwise preprocessed content file may be preloaded into a cache of a media player downloader device.

The electronic communication may include a recipient address corresponding to the media player downloader device . The electronic communication may also include a link related to the requested content file. For example a link to the requested content file or a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the requested content file may be included in the body or subject of the electronic communication. A process running on the SMTP server processes the electronic communication and parses the recipient address from the electronic communication and extracts the link related to the content file. The content file may be part of a user s private collection and may or may not be torrentized.

A session e.g. SIP session may be established with the media player downloader device . After a session with the media player downloader device is established the link related to the requested content file is sent to the media player downloader device . For example a link to the requested content or a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the requested content may be sent to the media player downloader device . In response to receiving the link related to the requested content the media player downloader device may for example use the link to download a torrent file and may use the torrent file to download the requested content file such as from one or more BitTorrent clients. If the link is a link to the requested content file the media player downloader device may download the requested content file using the link.

The SMTP server may perform whitelist and blacklist processing. For example if the sender address is on a whitelist the SMTP server may approve the communication and if the sender address is on a blacklist the SMTP server may reject the communication. illustrates whitelist and blacklist processing in further detail. A data record for a particular media player downloader device e.g. a media player downloader device associated with a recipient address of Downloader ContentNetwork.com includes a whitelist and a blacklist . In some implementations a particular whitelist or a particular blacklist is stored in association with a particular media player downloader device and in other implementations whitelists and blacklists are associated with multiple media player downloader devices. Whitelists and blacklists may be stored for example in data storage accessible by a communications server.

The whitelist includes sender addresses e.g. User1 isp.com User2 isp.com and UserN isp.com which have been determined to be associated with trusted senders. The blacklist includes sender addresses e.g. UserA isp.com UserB isp.com and UserX isp.com which have been determined to be associated with untrusted senders.

If a communications server e.g. the SMTP server of receives an electronic communication from a sender whose address is included in the whitelist the communications server may approve the communication. For example a communications server may receive an electronic communication from a sender User2 isp.com where the User2 isp.com address is included in the whitelist . Based on the inclusion of the User2 isp.com address in the whitelist the communications server may approve the associated request as indicated by an action . As indicated by an action the communications server may control a media player downloader device to download content related to a link included in the electronic communication. The link may relate to a content file e.g. the link may be a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with a particular content file .

The media player downloader device to control may be identified by the recipient address of the electronic communication e.g. Downloader ContentNetwork.com . The media player downloader device may download a download file using the link and may use the download file to download a content file. The downloaded content file may be stored in media player downloader storage associated with the media player downloader device in a storage area which includes content related to the link .

If a communications server receives an electronic communication from a sender whose address is included in the blacklist the communications server may deny or reject the communication. For example a communications server may receive an electronic communication from a sender UserA isp.com where the UserA isp.com address is included in the blacklist . The communications server may deny the associated request as indicated by an action . As indicated by an action the communications server may send an error message to the UserA isp.com address. The communications server may otherwise ignore the electronic communication . For example the electronic communication may include a link related to a content file and may include a recipient address e.g. Downloader ContentNetwork.com associated with a particular media player downloader device. The communications server may ignore e.g. not process the link . Furthermore media player downloader storage associated with the media player downloader device may be unaltered by the receipt of the electronic communication the media player downloader storage may include a storage area which includes content unrelated to the links and which is unaffected by the receipt of the electronic communication .

The communications server receives an input addressing a communication to the media player downloader device . For example the communications server may receive input defining an email from a user which includes a recipient address corresponding to at least one media player downloader device. For example the recipient address may be an email address corresponding to the media player downloader device .

Other examples may include the communications server receiving input defining an instant message text message SMS Short Message Service message or a message sent with a messaging API Application Programming Interface provided by a social networking server e.g. Facebook Twitter . In some examples message processing of messages received from social networking sites may be integrated with email submission processing. For example the communications server may receive a message from a messaging API from a user of a social network and may initiate the sending of an email with a sender email address associated with the user and a recipient email address associated with a media player downloader device corresponding to the user. As described in whitelist and or blacklist processing may be used to approve or reject the communication.

The communications server receives an input to include a link in the communication . For example the subject or body of the defined communication may include a link to a file related to a content file such as a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with a particular content file.

The communications server sends the communication to the network server system and the network server system receives the communication . For example an SMTP server may forward an electronic communication to another server.

The network server system maps the address of the communication to the media player downloader device . For example the communication received by the network server system may include a recipient address associated with a particular media player downloader device and the recipient address may be parsed from the communication and mapped to a media player downloader device e.g. using a table which maps email addresses to media player downloader device identifiers . For example the recipient address may be mapped to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device . In the example of the SMTP server may map the recipient address included in an electronic communication received from the email client to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device .

The network server system establishes a session with the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device establishes a session with the network server system . For example a SIP session may be established between the network server system and the media player downloader device . In the example of a SIP session may be established between a host user agent server e.g. a host user agent server process running on the SMTP server or running on another server machine and the media player downloader device .

The network server system parses a link related to a content file from the communication . For example a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with a content file may be parsed and extracted from the subject or the body of the communication. The network server system may validate the link e.g. confirm that the link refers to an available file .

The network server system sends the parsed link to the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device receives the link related to the content file . For example the extracted link may be sent from a host user agent server to the media player downloader device using a SIP media path over the established SIP session e.g. using a UDT connection .

The media player downloader device downloads the content file using the link . For example the media player downloader device may use the link to retrieve a BitTorrent torrent file over the Internet using HTTP. The torrent file may be used to download a content file. For example a retrieved BitTorrent torrent file may be used to download the content file from one or more BitTorrent clients.

The media player downloader device prepares the content file for rendering . For example the content file may be transcoded decrypted and or decompressed. In some implementations some or all of a transcoded or otherwise preprocessed content file may be preloaded into a cache of a media player downloader device.

The electronic communication may also include an attachment which includes a content file to be downloaded to the media player downloader device . The subject or body of the electronic communication may indicate whether the attached file is a public or private content file. A public file may be for example a file generally available to the public such as a file available using a public BitTorrent tracker or otherwise publicly available on the Internet or another public source. A private file is a file which is available to a single user or a group of users such as by using a private BitTorrent tracker.

The SMTP server may extract the attached file from the communication and may forward the attached file to an attachment processing server . The attachment processing server may determine whether the attachment exists in an email attachment storage . If the attachment does not exist in the email attachment storage the attachment processing server may create download information e.g. a BitTorrent torrent file a link to the attached file associated with the attachment and may store the attached file and the download information in the email attachment storage . In some implementations the attachment processing server torrentizes the attached file and creates a private tracker to limit the distribution of the torrentized version of the attached file to authorized users. The attachment processing server also may retain the attached file itself without torrentizing the file. If the attachment already exists in the email attachment storage the attachment processing server may retrieve previously created download information for the attached file.

A session e.g. SIP session may be established with the media player downloader device . After a session with the media player downloader device is established the download information is sent to the media player downloader device . For example a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the attached file may be sent to the media player downloader device . In another example a torrent file associated with the attached file may be sent to the media player downloader device . If the download information is a link to a torrent file the media player downloader device may download the torrent file. The media player downloader device may use the torrent file e.g. either a downloaded or received torrent file to download the attached file. For example the attachment processing server may act as a BitTorrent client and the attached file may be retrieved from the email attachment storage . In some implementations the attachment processing server sends the attached file directly to the media player downloader device . In other implementations the media player downloader device downloads the attached file from the attachment processing server .

The communications server receives input addressing a communication to the media player downloader device . For example the communications server may receive input defining an email from a user which includes a recipient address corresponding to at least one media player downloader device. For example the recipient address may be an email address corresponding to the media player downloader device . In the example of the SMTP server may receive an email communication sent using the email client where the recipient address of the email communication corresponds to the media player downloader device . As described in whitelist and or blacklist processing may be used to approve or reject the communication.

The communications server receives an input to attach a file to the communication . For example the user may attach a content file to an email communication. In the example of the end user may attach a file to an email communication using the email client .

The communications server sends the communication to the network server system and the network server system receives the communication . For example an SMTP server may forward an electronic communication to another server. In the example of the SMTP server may forward the communication to the attachment processing server .

The network server system maps the address of the communication to the media player downloader device . For example the communication received by the network server system may include a recipient address associated with a particular media player downloader device and the recipient address may be parsed from the communication and mapped to a media player downloader device e.g. using a table which maps email addresses to media player downloader device identifiers . For example the recipient address may be mapped to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device . In the example of the attachment processing server may map the recipient address included in an electronic communication received from the email client to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device .

The network server system establishes a session with the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device establishes a session with the network server system . For example a SIP session may be established between the network server system and the media player downloader device . In the example of a SIP session may be established between a host user agent server e.g. a host user agent server process running on the attachment processing server or running on another server machine and the media player downloader device .

The network server system extracts an attached file from the communication . For example the network server system may extract an attached file from an email communication and may store the attached file in memory or other electronic storage.

The network server system determines whether the attachment file exists in storage . For example the network server system may create a digital signature of the attachment file and may compare the digital signature of the attachment file to digital signatures associated with previously stored attachment files stored in an email attachment storage.

If the attachment file does not exist in storage the network server system stores the attachment file and creates download information . For example the network server system may create download information such as a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the attachment file and may store the attachment file and the download information in an email attachment storage.

If the attachment file exists in storage the network server system identifies download information for the stored attachment file . For example the network server system may identify and retrieve a stored BitTorrent torrent file associated with the stored attachment file.

The network server system sends download information to the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device receives the download information . For example the download information may be sent from a host user agent server to the media player downloader device using a SIP media path over the established SIP session e.g. using a UDT connection . The download information may be a torrent file or may be a link to a torrent file.

The media player downloader device downloads the file using the download information . If the download information is a link to a torrent file the media player downloader device may download the torrent file. The media player downloader device may use a torrent file e.g. either a downloaded or received torrent file to download the attached file. For example the network server system may act as a BitTorrent client and the attached file may be retrieved from an email attachment storage.

The media player downloader device prepares the content file for rendering . For example the content file may be transcoded decrypted and or decompressed. In some implementations some or all of a transcoded or otherwise preprocessed content file may be preloaded into a cache of a media player downloader device.

The electronic communication may include a recipient address corresponding to the media player downloader device . The electronic communication may also include a link to streaming content such as a link to streaming content hosted by a streaming website . The link to streaming content may be included in the body or subject of the electronic communication. A process running on the SMTP server processes the electronic communication and parses the recipient address from the electronic communication and extracts the link related to the content file. The SMTP server may forward the link to streaming content to a streaming processing server .

The streaming processing server may determine whether the streaming content associated with the link already exists in streaming content storage . If the streaming content exists in the streaming content storage the streaming processing server identifies and retrieves download information e.g. a BitTorrent torrent file for the streaming content. If the streaming content does not exist in the streaming content storage the streaming processing server retrieves the streaming content from the streaming website converts the streaming content into an independent downloadable and playable file stores the independent downloadable and playable file in the streaming content storage creates download information e.g. a BitTorrent torrent file for the downloadable and playable file and stores the download information e.g. in the streaming content storage .

A session e.g. SIP session may be established with the media player downloader device . After a session with the media player downloader device is established the download information for the streaming content is sent to the media player downloader device . For example a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the streaming content may be sent to the media player downloader device . In response to receiving the link related to the streaming content the media player downloader device may for example use the link to download a torrent file using HTTP over the Internet.

The communications server receives an input addressing communication to the media player downloader device . For example the communications server may receive input defining an email from a user which includes a recipient address corresponding to at least one media player downloader device. For example the recipient address may be an email address corresponding to the media player downloader device . As described in whitelist and or blacklist processing may be used to approve or reject the communication.

Other examples may include the communications server receiving input defining an instant message text message SMS Short Message Service message or a message sent with a messaging API Application Programming Interface provided by a social networking server e.g. Facebook Twitter . In some examples message processing of messages received from social networking sites may be integrated with email submission processing. For example the communications server may receive a message from a messaging API from a user of a social network and may initiate the sending of an email with a sender email address associated with the user and a recipient email address associated with a media player downloader device corresponding to the user.

The communications server receives an input to include a streaming link . For example the subject or body of the received communication may include a link to streaming content such as streaming content hosted by a streaming website e.g. YouTube .

The communications server sends a communication to the network server system and the network server system receives the communication . For example an SMTP server may forward an electronic communication to another server. In the example of the email sent from the email client may be forwarded from the SMTP server to the streaming processing server .

The network server system maps the address of the communication to the media player downloader device . For example the communication received by the network server system may include a recipient address associated with a particular media player downloader device and the recipient address may be parsed from the communication and mapped to a media player downloader device e.g. using a table which maps email addresses to media player downloader device identifiers . For example the recipient address may be mapped to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device . In the example of the SMTP server or the streaming processing server may map the recipient address included in an electronic communication received from the email client to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device .

The network server system establishes a session with the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device establishes a session with the network server system . For example a SIP session may be established between the network server system and the media player downloader device . In the example of a SIP session may be established between a host user agent server e.g. a host user agent server process running on the streaming processing server or running on another server machine and the media player downloader device .

The network server system parses a link and determines that the link is a streaming link . For example a link may be parsed and extracted from the subject or the body of the communication. The network server system may determine that the link is a streaming link based for example on determining that the server portion of the link corresponds to a server associated with a streaming website. As another example the network server system may determine that the link is a streaming link based on a determined file type associated with the link. The network server system may validate the link e.g. confirm that the link refers to available streaming content .

The network server system determines whether the content exists in storage . For example the network server system may query to see if content associated with the link has been previously stored in streaming content storage e.g. by querying to see if the link a file name associated with the link or other information corresponding to the link exists in storage . In the example of the streaming processing server may determine if previously stored content for the received link to streaming content exists in the streaming content storage . In some implementations to determine whether streaming content exists in storage the network server system retrieves the content and does a compare or query to determine if identical content already exists in storage.

If the content exists in storage the network server system identifies download information for the stored content . For example a streaming processing server may identify and retrieve a previously created BitTorrent torrent file associated with the streaming content. If the network server system had retrieved the streaming content to determine whether the streaming content already existed in storage the network server system may discard the retrieved content.

If the content does not exist in storage the network server system retrieves the content . For example streaming content may be retrieved from a streaming website using the streaming link. In the example of the streaming processing server may use the streaming link to retrieve streaming content from the streaming website .

The network server system formats the content into a downloadable and playable file . For instance in the example of the streaming processing server may save streaming content received from the streaming website in a downloadable and playable streaming content file and may process the file e.g. transcode the file so that the file may be playable in a media player downloader device.

The network server system stores the file and creates download information . For example the network server system may create download information such as a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the downloadable and playable streaming content file and may store the downloadable and playable streaming content file and the download information in streaming content storage. In the example of the downloadable and playable streaming content file and the download information may be stored in the streaming content storage .

The network server system sends download information to the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device receives the download information . For example the download information may be sent from a host user agent server to the media player downloader device using a SIP media path over the established SIP session e.g. using a UDT connection . The download information may be a torrent file or may be a link to a torrent file.

The media player downloader device downloads the content file using the download information . If the download information is a link to a torrent file the media player downloader device may download the torrent file. The media player downloader device may use a torrent file e.g. either a downloaded or received torrent file to download the downloadable and playable streaming content file. For example the network server system may act as a BitTorrent client and the attached file may be retrieved from streaming content storage.

The media player downloader device prepares the content file for rendering . For example the streaming content file may be transcoded decrypted and or decompressed. In some implementations some or all of a transcoded or otherwise preprocessed streaming content file may be preloaded into a cache of a media player downloader device.

After a session with the media player downloader device is established the web user agent may send a link related to the requested content file to the media player downloader device . For example a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the requested content may be sent to the media player downloader device . In some implementations a SIP proxy server and a SIP edge server may be used to route the communication including the link over a content delivery network to a server which is proximate to the media player downloader device such as a second SIP edge server .

In response to receiving the link related to the requested content the media player downloader device may for example use the link to download a torrent file using HTTP over the Internet. The media player downloader device may use the torrent file to download the requested content file such as from one or more BitTorrent clients included in one or more BitTorrent swarms .

The user device logs into the network server system . For example an end user may enter login information on a download website and a web user agent process running in the end user s web browser may accept the login information.

The network server system identifies the user and receives a link related to content . For example a web user agent may authenticate the user using the login information and may identify a user based on the login information. The web user agent may receive a link that is selected by a user using a download website and that relates to a content file.

The network server system identifies the media player downloader device of the user . For example a user identifier entered by the user may be mapped to a device identifier e.g. using a table which maps user identifiers to device identifiers . For example the user identifier may be mapped to a device identifier corresponding to the media player downloader device .

The network server system establishes a session with the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device establishes a session with the network server system . For example a SIP session may be established between the network server system and the media player downloader device . In the example of a SIP session may be established between the web user agent and the media player downloader device .

The network server system sends the received link to the media player downloader device and the media player downloader device receives a link related to a content file . For example the link may be sent using a SIP media path over the established SIP session e.g. using a UDP User Datagram Protocol based data transfer UDT connection . In the example of the web user agent may send a link to a BitTorrent torrent file to the media player downloader device .

The media player downloader device downloads the content file using the link . For example the media player downloader device may use the link related to the content file to retrieve a BitTorrent torrent file over the Internet using HTTP. The media player downloader device may use the torrent file to download the content file from one or more BitTorrent clients e.g. the BitTorrent client or another client included in the BitTorrent swarm .

The media player downloader device prepares the content file for rendering . For example the content file may be transcoded decrypted and or decompressed. In some implementations some or all of a transcoded or otherwise preprocessed content file may be preloaded into a cache of a media player downloader device.

In response to a received request the system identifies attribute s of a user and or device from which the request was received . For example the system may identify a sender address and a whitelist and or blacklist associated with the user or device. As another example the system may identify a content rating which indicates the highest rating of content a user or device is allowed to download.

The system performs an authentication process using the identified attribute s . For example the system may determine whether the user and or the device is eligible to control the media player downloader device to download files by performing at least one of whitelisting and blacklisting e.g. see . As another example the system may determine that the user and or the device is eligible to download a subset of available content to the media player downloader device based on a type of the available content. As a further example the system may determine whether the user and or the device is eligible to download content to the media player downloader device using a password a machine token a certificate or any other type of authentication.

For example content may be rated and the user and or device may be eligible to download content at or below a particular rating. The system may determine a type of the content file associated with the received request and compare the type of the content file associated with the received request to the type of available content the user and or the device is eligible to download.

The system determines whether or not to process the request based on results of the authentication process . For example if a sender address associated with the request is included in a whitelist the system may determine to process the request. As another example if a sender address associated with the request is included in a blacklist the system may determine to not process the request.

As another example the system may determine whether or not to process the request based on a comparison of a type of content file associated with the received request to the type of available content the user and or device is eligible to download. For example if the type of content associated with the request is R rated movie content and if the type of content the user is available to download is PG 13 or below rated content the system may determine to not process the request. As another example if the type of content associated with the request is R rated movie content and if the device is eligible to download content of any rating the system may determine to process the request.

In response to a determination to process the request the system controls a media player downloader device to download a content file associated with request . For example the system may send a link to a BitTorrent torrent file associated with the content file to a media player downloader device. The media player downloader device may use the link to download the torrent file and may use the torrent file to download the content file.

In response to a determination to not process the request the system ignores the request and sends an error message . For example the system may send an error message to the user. An error message may be sent using email text message or instant message to name a few examples. The message may be sent to a recipient address associated with the user and or associated with the request.

As another example of downloading content in some implementations a first user may subscribe to a channel associated with a second user. For example the second user may send a content item or a link to a content item to the first user such as by sending an electronic communication e.g. email addressed to a communications address associated with the media player downloader device of the first user. In response to receiving an electronic communication from the second user the media player downloader device of the first user or as other examples a server device or a remote control device associated with the first user may extract the content from the communication e.g. by downloading content through a link included in the communication extracting content attached to the communication or downloading content using download information e.g. a BitTorrent torrent file included in the communication to name a few examples .

After content has been extracted the content may be organized in a channel associated with the second user. The first user may watch the content items received from the second user in a manner similar to watching content files included on a channel defined by a content curator. In some implementations the second user in this example is a content curator. In other implementations the second user is not a defined content curator but is a regular user who has subscribed to the system. For example the first user and second user may be friends or may belong to the same family. For example a first user sending content to a second user with the received content being organized into a channel for the second user may be a convenient way for the second user to share content with the first user and possibly with other users e.g. the second user may send electronic communication to a group of users .

The system includes a processor a memory a storage device and an input output device . Each of the components and are interconnected using a system bus . The processor is capable of processing instructions for execution within the system . In one implementation the processor is a single threaded processor. In another implementation the processor is a multi threaded processor. The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the input output device .

The memory stores information within the system . In one implementation the memory is a computer readable medium. In one implementation the memory is a volatile memory unit. In another implementation the memory is a non volatile memory unit.

The storage device is capable of providing mass storage for the system . In one implementation the storage device is a computer readable medium. In various different implementations the storage device may be a floppy disk device a hard disk device an optical disk device or a tape device.

The input output device provides input output operations for the system . In one implementation the input output device includes a keyboard and or pointing device. In another implementation the input output device includes a display unit for displaying graphical user interfaces.

The features described can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. The apparatus can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in an information carrier e.g. in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor and method steps can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the described implementations by operating on input data and generating output. The described features can be implemented advantageously in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. A computer program is a set of instructions that can be used directly or indirectly in a computer to perform a certain activity or bring about a certain result. A computer program can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment.

Suitable processors for the execution of a program of instructions include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and the sole processor or one of multiple processors of any kind of computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The elements of a computer may include a processor for executing instructions and one or more memories for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to communicate with one or more mass storage devices for storing data files such devices include magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and optical disks. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

To provide for interaction with a user the features can be implemented on a computer having a display device such as a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer.

The features can be implemented in a computer system that includes a back end component such as a data server or that includes a middleware component such as an application server or an Internet server or that includes a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface or an Internet browser or any combination of them. The components of the system can be connected by any form or medium of digital data communication such as a communication network. Examples of communication networks include e.g. a LAN a WAN and the computers and networks forming the Internet.

The computer system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a network such as the described one. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

A number of implementations have been described. Nevertheless it will be understood that various modifications may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. Accordingly other implementations are within the scope of the following claims.

