---

title: System and method for providing a multi-credential authentication protocol
abstract: A system and method for providing secure communications between remote computing devices and servers. A network device sends characteristics of a client computing device over the network. A network device receives characteristics of a client computing device over the network. A plurality of credentials are generated where at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key, and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. A network device sends the plurality of credentials over the network. A network device receives the plurality of credentials via the network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09231763&OS=09231763&RS=09231763
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09231763
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100823
---
The present Application for Patent is a continuation of patent application Ser. No. 10 976 391 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR PROVIDING A MULTI CREDENTIAL AUTHENTICATION PROTOCOL filed Oct. 29 2004 pending and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to secure communications between remote computing devices and servers. More particularly the invention relates to the creation maintenance revocation and renewal of secure client credentials used in providing strong authentication between remote computing devices and servers.

Advances in technology have resulted in smaller and more powerful personal computing devices. For example there currently exist a variety of portable personal computing devices including wireless computing devices such as portable wireless telephones personal digital assistants PDAs and paging devices that are each small lightweight and can be easily carried by users. More specifically the portable wireless telephones for example further include cellular telephones that communicate voice and data packets over wireless networks. Further many such cellular telephones are being manufactured with relatively large increases in computing capabilities and as such are becoming tantamount to small personal computers and hand held PDAs. Typically these smaller and more powerful personal computing devices are severely resource constrained. For example the screen size amount of available memory and file system space amount of input and output capabilities and processing capability may be each limited by the small size of the device. Because of such severe resource constraints it is often typically desirable for example to maintain a limited size and quantity of software applications and other information residing on such personal computing devices client computing devices .

Some of these personal computing devices utilize application programming interfaces APIs sometimes referred to as runtime environments and software platforms that are installed onto their local computer platform and which are used for example to simplify operation of such devices such as by providing generalized calls for device specific resources. Further some such APIs are also known to provide software developers the ability to create software applications that are fully executable on such devices. In addition often such APIs are known to be operationally located between the computing device system software and the software applications such that the computing device computing functionality is made available to the software applications without requiring the software developer to have the specific computing device system source code. Further some like APIs are known to provide mechanisms for secure communications between such personal devices i.e. clients and remote devices i.e. servers using secure cryptographic key information.

Examples of such an APIs some of which are discussed in more detail below include those currently publicly available versions of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. BREW is sometimes described as a thin veneer existing over a computing device s typically a wireless cellular phone operating system which among other features provides interfaces to hardware features particularly found on personal computing devices. BREW is further characterized by at least the one advantage of being able to be provided on such personal computing devices at a relatively low cost with respect to demands on such device resources and with respect to the price paid by consumers for devices containing the BREW API. Other features known to be associated with BREW include its end to end software distribution platform that provides a variety of benefits for wireless service operators software developers and computing device consumers. At least one such currently available end to end software distribution platform includes logic distributed over a server client architecture where the server performs for example billing security and application distribution functionality and the client performs for example application execution security and user interface functionality.

Regarding providing strong authentication between client computing devices and servers currently some systems provide such secure communications by incorporating corresponding cryptographic encryption algorithms or programs on the corresponding client computing devices and servers. This is done in order to allow servers to authenticate client devices. Here such systems typically provide similar cryptographic algorithms on the server to decipher whether a credential received from the apparent corresponding client is from a trusted authenticated source. Such systems are characterized by the generation of credential type information based on information all of which is available on for example each client computing device. Such systems are known to contain certain vulnerabilities such as the possibility of the loss of secure communications because of unauthorized access to any one of the copies of the cryptographic algorithm as it exists on any one of the corresponding client computing devices. This vulnerability exists for example because generally such cryptographic algorithms generate credential information based on available information often maintained on the corresponding client computing devices and or servers. Therefore when both the cryptographic algorithm and the data used by such algorithms are freely available any entity that is successful in deciphering how credentials are generated in any such device is now also all but in possession of the information that would allow such entity to selectively breach the secure communications otherwise present in such systems and masquerade as an authenticated and valid client computing device.

Other systems that provide secure communications between client computing devices and servers are known to do so by at least in part having a secure credential installed on the client computing devices at the time of manufacture. In one example a service provider provides secure credentials to computing device manufacturers such that the manufacturers can install the individual secure credentials on separate client computing devices during the manufacturing process. Although such systems do not generally suffer from some of the vulnerabilities of those systems described above e.g. those that maintain cryptographic algorithms on each of the handsets such credential installation systems do have their own unique problems and vulnerabilities. For example such credential installation systems are often difficult to implement because of the general requirement of having to add a dynamic step to what otherwise is typically a series of static steps that make up the manufacturing process. More specifically unlike the typical static step that represents an identical operation performed on each and every computing device the new dynamic step in contrast represents a new step where a different operation is performed the adding of a unique credential on each separate client computing device. This is highly unlike the typical static step of for example installing an identical display in an identical manner on each and every separate client computing device. In addition at least one vulnerability of such systems include the potential occurrence of unauthorized access to the list of secure credentials that might allow unauthorized entities to spoof the identity of an otherwise authorized device.

In other systems secure communication is provided in part by the installation or programming of phones by an authorized agent. Typically such programming occurs after the client computing devices have been manufactured and shipped. In one example a secure credential is installed on the client computing device at the time and place of sale of the device. Here in at least one example an authorized agent inputs a code from a list of unique secure codes into the client computing device. In other instances automated readers are used to transfer individual secure codes to each client computing device. Although this process avoids some of the difficulties associated with programming such client computing devices at the time of manufacture such as adding a dynamic manufacturing step to a typically static step process this process still contains its own difficulties and vulnerabilities. For example one vulnerability is the problem of potential unauthorized access to the list of secure credentials that would allow unauthorized entities to spoof the identity of an otherwise authorized device.

Also generally typical of currently available secure communication systems is the hard wired or hard coded aspect of the use of credentials on corresponding client devices. This hard wired hard coded aspect of such systems requires that client devices be physically serviced by a service technician whenever a situation such as a security breach has occurred where for example any one or more credentials need to be replaced added to and or otherwise updated. Such a requirement to be physically serviced by a service technician is extremely costly particularly when large numbers of client devices are compromised.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a client server system that includes many of the secure communication advantages inherent in general secure communications techniques such as those associated with the use of secure credentials while also avoiding other less advantageous aspects of such existing systems such as the problems associated with storing cryptographic algorithms on client computing devices requiring the installation of secure credentials at the time of manufacture or the programming of secure credentials at point of sale locations and the ability to update or replace these credentials in the event of a security breach.

Embodiments disclosed herein address the above stated needs including for example one or more embodiments in which methods software and apparatus are used to provide secure communications between client computing devices and servers.

At least one embodiment includes a method for providing secure communications between a client computing device and a server. The client computing device and server are coupled to a network. The method includes obtaining a plurality of credentials at a given communicative device. At least one of the plurality of credentials is based on both at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials is based on both the at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes a communicative device. The communicative device is configured to provide secure communications between a client computing device and a server. The client computing device and server are coupled to a network. The communicative device includes means for obtaining at least one of a plurality of credentials based on both at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a unique client key. The communicative device further includes means for obtaining at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes a communicative device configured to provide secure communications between a client computing device and a server. The client computing device and server are coupled to a network. The communicative device includes logic configured to obtain at least one of a plurality of credentials based on both at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a unique client key. The communicative device further includes logic configured to obtain at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes a non transitory computer readable medium containing instructions stored thereon. The instructions can be executed by a communicative device configured to provide secure communications between a client computing device and a server the client computing device and server coupled to a network. The instructions include program code to obtain at least one of a plurality of credentials based on both at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a unique client key. The instructions further include program code to obtain at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the at least one characteristic of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes receiving via the network the characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes generating a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes sending via the network the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes sending via the network characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes receiving via the network a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes sending from the client computing device via the network characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes receiving at the server via the network the characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes generating a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes sending from the server via the network the plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes receiving at the client computing device via the network receiving via the network the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes logic configured to receive via the network characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to generate a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to send via the network the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes logic configured to send via the network characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to receive via the network a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes a client computing device including logic configured to send via the network characteristics of the client computing device and receive via the network a plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes a server including logic configured to receive via the network the characteristics of the client computing device generate the plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key and to send via the network the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes code operable to receive via the network characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes code operable to generate a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes code operable to send via the network the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes code operable to send via the network characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes code operable to receive via the network a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes means for receiving via the network characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes means for generating a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes means for sending via the network the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes means for sending via the network characteristics of the client computing device. At least one embodiment includes means for receiving via the network a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes receiving via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. At least one embodiment includes determining the authenticity of the signal based upon the selective authentication of any of the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes sending via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes sending from the client computing device via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes receiving at the server via the network the signal. Such embodiment also includes determining at the server the authenticity of the signal based upon the selective authentication of any of the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes logic configured to receive via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment includes logic configured to determine the authenticity of the signal based upon the selective authentication of any of the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes logic configured to send via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes a client computing device including logic configured to send via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes a server including logic configured to receive via the network the signal and determine the authenticity of the signal based upon the selective authentication of any of the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes code operable to receive via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes code operable to determine the authenticity of the signal based upon the selective authentication of any of the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes code operable to send via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes means for receiving via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. At least one such embodiment also includes means for determining the authenticity of the signal based upon the selective authentication of any of the plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes means for sending via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key.

At least one embodiment includes receiving via the network a signal including the characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes generating a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes sending via the network a signal including the plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes receiving via the network a signal including the plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes determining the authenticity of the received signal based upon the selective authentication of any of the received plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes sending via the network a signal including characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes receiving via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes sending via the network a signal including the received plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes logic configured to receive via the network a signal including characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to generate a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to send via the network a signal including the plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to receive via the network a signal including the plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to determine the authenticity of the received signal including a plurality of credentials based upon the selective authentication of any of the received plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes logic configured to send via the network a signal including characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to receive via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes logic configured to send via the network a signal including the received plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes code operable to receive via the network a signal including characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes code operable to generate a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes code operable to send via the network a signal including the plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes code operable to receive via the network a signal including the sent plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes code operable to determine the authenticity of the received signal including the received plurality of credentials based upon the selective authentication of any of the received plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes code operable to send via the network a signal including characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes code operable to receive via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes code operable to send via the network a signal including the received plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes means for receiving via the network a signal including characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes means for generating a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes means for sending via the network a signal including the plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes means for receiving via the network a signal including the sent plurality of credentials. Such embodiment also includes means for determining the authenticity of the received signal including the received plurality of credentials based upon the selective authentication of any of the received plurality of credentials.

At least one embodiment includes means for sending via the network a signal including characteristics of the client computing device. Such embodiment also includes means for receiving via the network a signal including a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key. Such embodiment also includes means for sending via the network a signal including the received plurality of credentials.

At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the separation among different devices of the data used to create a credential and the cryptographic algorithm used to decrypt the credential. At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the introduction of a method of secure communications that does not require the installation of secure credentials at the time of manufacture. At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the introduction of a method of secure communications that does not require the programming of secure credentials at point of sale locations. At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the introduction of secure communications that does not require a person to take overt action to introduce a secure credential to a client computing device.

At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the ability of a device remote to the client computing device to dynamically change the procedure on how communications are authenticated. At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the ability of a remote server to initiate a reinstallation procedure regarding secure credentials at a client computing device. At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the flexibility provided by the use of a plurality of credentials in a dynamic secure communications process. At least one advantage of at least one embodiment includes the ability of a remote device to a client computing device to append replace and or delete credentials on a client computing device during system operations.

Other aspects advantages and features of the present invention will become apparent after review of the entire application including the following sections Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description and the Claims.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein could be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Further the embodiments described herein can additionally be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform a certain action or code operable to perform the described action.

The following detailed description describes methods systems software and apparatus used to provide secure communications between client computing devices and servers. In at least one embodiment a wireless client computing device registers with an application download server over a network by providing characteristics of the client computing device to the server and where the server provides at least one credential based on the characteristics of the client computing device and at least one other credential based on server information.

In one or more embodiments the system used to provide secure communications between client computing devices and servers operates in conjunction with a runtime environment API executing on the computing device. One such runtime environment API is what is to be a new version of the Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software platform developed by QUALCOMM Inc. of San Diego Calif. In at least one embodiment in the following description the system used to provide secure communications between client computing devices and servers is implemented on a computing device executing a runtime environment API such as the new version of the BREW software platform. However one or more embodiments of the system used to provide secure communications between client computing devices and servers are suitable for use with other types of runtime environments APIs that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless client computing devices.

The application download server is shown here on a network with other computer elements in communication with the wireless network . There is a second server and a stand alone server and each server can provide separate services and processes to the wireless devices across the wireless network . There is preferably also at least one stored application database that holds the software applications that are downloadable by the wireless devices . Different embodiments are contemplated that locate logic to perform secure communications at any one or more of the application download server second server and stand alone server .

In a block diagram is shown that more fully illustrates system including the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiment. The system is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless client computing devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. The application download server and the stored application database along with any other servers such as server which are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services communicate with a carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. In the embodiment shown the server contains a server security containing logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . Such server security module operates in conjunction with a client security module located on a client computing device such as wireless devices to provide secure communications.

The carrier network controls messages sent as data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC is connected to multiple base stations BTS . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as cellular telephone by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art.

The wireless device here a wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone has a computer platform that can receive and execute software applications transmitted from the application download server . The computer platform includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device and is not normally upgradeable. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The API also includes a client security module containing logic configured to provide for secure communications over the carrier network . Such client security module operates in conjunction with a client security module to provide secure communications. The computer platform also includes a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

The wireless client computing device such as cellular telephone accordingly downloads one or more software applications such as games news stock monitors and the like from the application download server and holds the application on the local database when not in use and uploads stored resident applications on the local database to memory for execution on the API when so desired by the user. Further the communications over the wireless network are performed in a secure manner at least in part because of the interaction and operation between the client security module and the server security module . The present inventive system and method provides such secure communication over the wireless network as is further described herein.

As shown in the exemplary embodiment the client computing device includes memory network I O interface processor and bus . Although the memory is shown as RAM memory other embodiments include such memory as all known types of memory that are known to provide for the storing of configured logic. In addition although memory is shown as one contiguous unit of one type of memory other embodiments use multiple locations and multiple types of memory as memory . The network I O interface provides input and output to devices coupled to the network via the bus . The processor operates on instructions and data provided via the bus . In at least one embodiment processor is part of ASIC .

Located in memory is characteristics of the client computing device credentials logic to send via the network characteristics of the client computing device and logic to receive via the network a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key . In at least one embodiment the characteristics of the client computing device includes any one or more of the following client computing device phone number client computing device system identification number SID client computing device BREW version client computing device hardware ID e.g. electronic serial number ESN client computing device firmware version carrier ID Removable User Identity Module RUIM card ID Mobile Directory Number MDN an Mobile Information Number MIN device network address e.g. IP address service subscriber billing account number e.g. International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI client computing device secret key e.g. an A key a user ID and a personal identification number PIN . In other embodiments other information is used as the characteristics of the client computing device where such information is useful in identifying the client computing device . As exemplified above the characteristics of the client computing device sometimes includes characteristics that is not unique in and of itself to such client computing device but when combined with other characteristics are useful in uniquely identifying the particular client computing device . Further in at least one embodiment the at least one credential based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and the unique client key is formulated by performing a one way cryptographic operation on characteristics of the client computing device and the client key. In some embodiments other credentials are formulated using the same or different cryptographic algorithms while in other embodiments certain credentials are not formulated using a cryptographic algorithm.

In at least one embodiment the system includes credentials used in authenticating signals sent across the wireless network . Such credentials are present in memory only after having at least an initial sending of the characteristics of the client computing device and received the corresponding credentials in return. Although other embodiments use additional credentials in one embodiment the credentials are made up of one credential based on the sent characteristics of the client computing device and the unique client key and another credential based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key . Multiple credentials are used such that any one or more of such credentials can be optionally used to authenticate a corresponding signal. As such a remote server for example can selectively choose which credentials to verify in the authentication of a signal sent by a client computing device .

In one embodiment multiple credentials are used based on a generic key where one such credential is associated with a particular server while another credential is based upon a generic key where one such credential is associated with a particular server farm e.g. a server farm associated with an application download server of a network carrier within a multi server farm e.g. a group of multiple server farms associated with one ore more application download servers of a network carrier while another credential is based upon a generic key where such credential is associated with a multi server farm for which the particular server farm belongs. In each of such embodiments the generic key is used in conjunction with the characteristics of the client computing device to generate the unique credential. In such systems for example if a particular server farm or database associated therewith is lost the remaining associated server farms can continue receiving and authenticating signals sent from the particular client computing device by selectively choosing to authenticate only the credential based on the credential associated with multi server farm client computing device combination.

Here because of the loss of the particular server farm the credential associated with that particular server farm client computing device is ignored in the authentication process. As such at least one embodiment includes the selective use of multiple credentials to selectively authenticate signals such that any particular loss of data or equipment e.g. servers and server farms otherwise associated with one of the credentials is not fatal in the continuing of the secure process of authenticating a signal sent from a particular client computing device . As such depending on the availability or non availability of server and or server farm related components varying strengths of authentication may be selectively applied to authenticate signals sent from a client computing device .

Alternatively in at least one embodiment selectively a subset of multiple credentials are used to authenticate a signal even though more that the subset of multiple credentials are valid and available for use. In one such embodiment the selective use of a subset of available and valid multiple credentials is performed based on a determination of a particular strength of authentication desired. In one embodiment such strength of authentication is determined based on the relative expense associated with the particular authentication scheme compared with others. In one embodiment the relative expense is in part based on the value e.g. a revenue amount associated with a corresponding transaction in relation to the costs e.g. time processing costs etc. associated with the authentication of such signal. For example the system when processing a signal representing a transaction that has a corresponding low value of one dollar the system selectively bases its authentication strength used to authenticate the signal based on a smaller set e.g. subset of valid multiple credentials than the system uses in authenticating another set e.g. subset of valid multiple credentials associated with a signal representing a transaction that has a corresponding higher value of one hundred dollars. Further because of the number of valid multiple credentials evaluated in authentication may vary i.e. more for high revenue transactions that for lower revenue transactions certain transactions i.e. low revenue transactions may be able to be verified by the system i.e. those that require the use of less multiple credentials while other transactions i.e. those that require the use of more multiple credentials are not. In other words determining authentication based on a set of for example four credentials may result in authenticating one signal transaction while a set of for example four credentials may result in not authenticating another signal transaction. As such at least one embodiment provides a dynamic authentication process where different credentials among the set of sent credentials e.g. either different in either amount or in which credential s used can be used at different times to authenticate the same or different signals from any particular client computing device .

In at least one embodiment the system includes logic to send via the network characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key . In at least one embodiment such characteristics of the client computing device is sent with the purpose of having a remote receiving device receive such information where all or part of such information is used in generating the credential based on the sent characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key . In one embodiment such remote receiving device is the server .

In at least one embodiment the system includes logic to receive via the network a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key . In at least one embodiment such plurality of credentials are sent from a remote sending device where such credentials are generated based on both characteristics of the client computing device that were previously sent from the client computing device and based on a key uniquely associated with the remote sending device. In one embodiment such remote sending device is a server . In one embodiment the received plurality of credentials are stored in memory for subsequent inclusion in signals sent from the computing device. In some embodiments the stored plurality of credentials are selectively replaced with new credentials based on subsequent received signals including commands to delete append and or replace the stored credentials.

As shown in the exemplary embodiment the server includes memory network I O interface processor and bus . Although the memory is shown as RAM memory other embodiments include such memory as all known types of memory that are known to provide for the storing of configured logic. In addition although memory is shown as one contiguous unit of one type of memory other embodiments use multiple locations and multiple types of memory as memory . The network I O interface provides input and output to devices coupled to the network via the bus . The processor operates on instructions and data provided via the bus .

Located in memory is characteristics of the client computing device credentials client key generic key logic to receive via the network characteristics of the client computing device logic to generate a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key and logic configured to send via the network the plurality of credentials . In at least one embodiment the unique client key represents a unique key associated with the particular client computing device and is not otherwise associated with any other device client server etc. In at least one embodiment the server generates this unique client key at the time of registration that is associated with the particular client computing device . For each client computing device associated with server there is a separate and unique client key stored in or that is otherwise accessible to server . In one embodiment such unique client keys are stored in a database located on the server . In some embodiments no credentials are generated based on a client key and as such rely solely on credentials based off of one or more generic keys . This is the case for example where a server does not have available a database to store multiple unique client keys .

In at least one embodiment generic key includes a server key associated with a server. The server key contains a unique key associated with a particular server. Such server key can be combined with the characteristics of the client computing device to generate a server based credential. In another embodiment generic key includes a server farm key associated with a particular server farm. Such server farm key can be combined with characteristics of the client computing device to generate a server farm based credential. In another embodiment generic key includes a plurality of server farms key associated with a particular group of a plurality of server farms. Such plurality of server farms key can be combined with characteristics of the client computing device to generate a plurality of server farms based credential.

In at least one embodiment the system includes logic to receive via the network characteristics of the client computing device . In at least one embodiment such characteristics of the client computing device is received for the purpose of generating the credential based on the sent characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key where such credentials are returned to the sending device for use in authenticating subsequent signals sent from such device. In one embodiment such sending device is the client computing device . In at least one embodiment such client computing device may be any of the wireless devices described in and shown in .

In at least one embodiment the system includes logic to generate a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key . In one embodiment the received characteristics of the client computing device is sent from a remote device. In one embodiment such remote sending device is a server . In one embodiment the generated plurality of credentials are stored in memory for subsequent inclusion in signals sent from the server associated with a client registration signal. In at least one embodiment the stored plurality of credentials are used to compare with credentials embedded in incoming signals to determine the incoming signals authenticity. In some embodiments the stored plurality of credentials are selectively modified i.e. replaced with new credentials and such modifications are transmitted to remote devices including associated commands such as delete append and replace that allows for the remote device to modify its corresponding credentials.

In at least one embodiment the logic to generate a plurality of credentials at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a unique client key and at least one of the plurality of credentials based on both the received characteristics of the client computing device and a generic key includes additional logic not shown that operates to generate more or less credentials based on server related circumstances. In one such embodiment the server detects the loss of credentials and or that certain credentials have been compromised and in response operates to generate replacement credentials that will be subsequently sent to the client computing device . In another embodiment the server in response to receiving a first set of credentials from a client computing device wherein the server is unable to verify all such credentials and further in response to receiving a second set of a credentials from the client computing device wherein the server is now able to verify such second set of credentials the server then operates to generate a new credential . In another embodiment the server in response to receiving a first set of weak credentials from a client computing device wherein the server is only able to verify a limited set of credentials the server then operates to generate one or more new credentials to be sent to the client computing device as a way of strengthening the set of credentials transmitted from the client computing device .

Once the credentials have been generated then the server operates in step to send the credentials to the client computing device . After sending the credentials in step the system in step operates such that the client computing device receives the credentials . Next in step the system operates such that the client computing device stores the credentials in memory . The final step of method is step . In at least one embodiment one or more of the steps of method are performed in a secure mode. For example steps and in one embodiment are performed under a secure mode at the client computing device. Such secure mode operates to prevent unwanted snooping of data by unauthorized programs and unauthorized entities. In one embodiment the secure mode includes the use of a secure file system. Such secure mode operations may be of any number of currently known techniques known in the art.

In addition to the above steps method also includes optional steps and each of which are used optionally in conjunction with existing steps. Optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the characteristics of the client computing device includes at least one of a client computing device phone number a client computing device client computing device phone number SID client computing device BREW version client computing device hardware ID client computing device firmware version carrier ID RUIM card ID MDN MIN device network address service subscriber billing account number client computing device secret key user ID and a PIN. Optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a server. Next optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a server farm. Next optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a plurality of server farms.

In addition to the above steps method also includes optional steps and each of which are used optionally in conjunction with existing steps. Optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the characteristics of the client computing device includes at least one of a client computing device phone number a client computing device client computing device phone number SID client computing device BREW version client computing device hardware ID client computing device firmware version carrier ID RUIM card ID MDN MIN device network address service subscriber billing account number client computing device secret key user ID and a PIN. Optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a server. Next optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a server farm. Next optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a plurality of server farms.

In addition to the above steps method also includes optional steps and each of which are used optionally in conjunction with existing steps. Optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the characteristics of the client computing device includes at least one of a client computing device phone number a client computing device client computing device phone number SID client computing device BREW version client computing device hardware ID client computing device firmware version carrier ID RUIM card ID MDN MIN device network address service subscriber billing account number client computing device secret key user ID and a PIN. Optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a server. Next optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a server farm. Next optional step modifies step where the method further operates wherein the generic key is unique to a plurality of server farms.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks configurations modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks configurations modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory PROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a computing device or user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a computing device or user terminal

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

