---

title: Systems, methods, and computer readable media for high frequency contrast imaging and image-guided therapeutics
abstract: Systems, methods, and computer readable media for high-frequency contrast imaging and image-guided therapeutics are disclosed. According to one aspect a method for high frequency contrast imaging and image-guided therapeutics includes: providing ultrasound of a first frequency bandwidth, directed toward the volume to be imaged, the volume containing a carrier having non-linear acoustical properties, wherein the ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth causes the carrier to generate ultrasound of a second frequency bandwidth that is different from the first frequency bandwidth; receiving, from the volume to be imaged, ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth; and using the received ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth to generate an image of the volume to be imaged, wherein the components of the second frequency bandwidth that are detected are of a frequency greater than 20 MHz. According to another aspect, ultrasound at a first frequency bandwidth enables imaging of a target, and ultrasound at a second frequency bandwidth mediates drug or gene delivery to a portion of the target, as guided by the image provided by the first frequency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09532769&OS=09532769&RS=09532769
owner: SUNNYBROOK RESEARCH INSTITUTE
number: 09532769
owner_city: Toronto, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100907
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 240 166 filed Sep. 4 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This presently disclosed subject matter was made with U.S. Government support under Grant No. 1R01EB009066 01 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. Thus the U.S. Government has certain rights in the presently disclosed subject matter.

The subject matter described herein relates to methods and systems using ultrasonic imaging. More particularly the subject matter described herein relates to systems methods and computer readable media for high frequency contrast imaging and image guided therapeutics.

With recent advances in animal models of disease there has been great interest in capabilities for high resolution ultrasound imaging. High resolution ultrasound imaging is performed at high frequencies typically greater than 15 MHz whereas clinical ultrasound imaging is typically in the 1 15 MHz range. Higher frequencies are proportional to higher resolution.

High frequency ultrasound is a popular modality for imaging animal models of human disease because of its portability relatively low cost and real time imaging capability. High frequency ultrasound 15 MHz is different from traditional clinical ultrasound because of its high resolution capability although with the sacrifice of penetration depth. Encapsulated microbubbles are often implemented as contrast agents during these ultrasound studies to improve detection of blood flow. Their use requires an intravascular injection of a solution of microbubbles immediately prior to an imaging exam. After their injection the microbubble contrast agents MCAs traverse the circulatory system with similar rheology to erythrocytes. The acoustic impedance mismatch between MCA gas cores and the surrounding blood and tissue is significant approximately four orders of magnitude causing them to scatter ultrasound and thus enhance the image intensity in their vicinity extremely efficiently.

The most basic method of microbubble contrast enhanced ultrasound relies on receiving the acoustic signal scattered from them at the fundamental imaging frequency. One limitation to this detection method is that echoes from both tissue and MCAs are in the same frequency band. This necessitates a large quantity of injected MCAs to compete with the inherent and unwanted tissue backscatter. However owing to the broadband and nonlinear acoustic responses of these gas filled spheres it is possible to overcome this limitation with other detection strategies. The most powerful MCA imaging methods are derived from their nonlinear responses to ultrasound providing MCAs distinct differences in their echo signatures when compared to the linear responses of tissue and blood. Imaging modes such as subharmonic imaging and phase inversion exploit MCAs nonlinear response and provide improved contrast to tissue ratios compared to the previously described fundamental mode imaging. Although these nonlinear imaging methods are now widely utilized in commercial ultrasound systems operating in the 1 15 MHz range they have yet to be implemented efficiently in high frequency ultrasound systems. One likely reason for this is that optimal MCA response requires excitation near the resonant frequency which is typically in the 0.5 8 MHz range for bubbles of several microns in diameter and the range in which most commonly available commercially produced MCAs fall.

The ability to detect small numbers of contrast agents in a tissue background is particularly important for molecular imaging or perfusion imaging. MCAs are unique in that they scatter ultrasound energy at higher and lower harmonics than the fundamental imaging frequency. These broadband harmonics due to the contrast agents nonlinear response have been shown to be most intense when insonified near the MCAs resonant frequencies. To date efficiently exciting harmonic response has not been possible with high frequency imaging systems since most contrast agents are resonant in the 1 5 MHz frequency range.

Thus there exists a need for systems which can excite microbubble contrast agents efficiently and also detect them with a high frequency system for high resolution imaging.

Additionally there has been an interest in the application of ultrasound to enhance drug and gene delivery. There are several mechanisms whereby this might occur. One mechanism is the use of radiation force RF to enhance both diagnostic and therapeutic ultrasound US imaging studies. RF pulses have shown to enhance adhesion of targeted MCAs thus improving their signal to noise ratio. RF has also been shown to be effective in concentrating therapeutic delivery vehicles at desired locations as determined by the ultrasound focus thereby providing a mean for ultrasound directed site specific drug delivery. The magnitude of RF on MCAs is maximized when generated near their resonance frequency typically in the 1 5 MHz range. Traditional high frequency imaging transducers are therefore not optimized to produce RF on most MCAs.

Thus there exists a need to simultaneously image with high resolution high frequency and use low frequency energy to produce radiation force at the desired site as selected by imaging.

In addition ultrasound can mediate local drug delivery by disrupting drug carrier vehicles causing enhanced release of contents. Low frequency ultrasound has also been shown to locally increase vascular or cell membrane permeability and to enhance gene transfection. These abilities are of particular interest for small animal studies where much of the work in US molecular imaging and therapeutic delivery is being tested. However all of these effects have been shown to occur primarily at low frequencies typically in the 1 2 MHz range. Thus it is not possible to mediate these therapeutic effects with a standard high frequency transducer.

Accordingly in light of these disadvantages associated with conventional ultrasonic imaging systems there exists a need for systems methods and computer readable media for high frequency contrast imaging and image guided therapeutics.

This invention encompasses an ultrasonic transducer imaging strategies and software control to implement these imaging strategies for high frequency ultrasound contrast imaging and image guided therapeutic approaches using high frequency ultrasound imaging to guide therapy.

According to one aspect the subject matter described herein includes a system for high frequency contrast imaging and image guided therapeutics the system including an ultrasound transducer operable to transmit ultrasound at a first frequency bandwidth and receive ultrasound at a second frequency bandwidth different from the first frequency bandwidth and a control module for controlling the ultrasound transducer to provide ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth directed toward a volume to be imaged the volume containing a carrier having non linear acoustical properties. The ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth causes the carrier to generate ultrasound of a second frequency bandwidth. The ultrasound transducer receives ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth from the volume to be imaged and the control module uses the received ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth to generate an image of the volume to be imaged. The components of the second frequency bandwidth that are detected are of a frequency greater than 20 MHz.

According to another aspect the subject matter described herein includes a method for high frequency contrast imaging and image guided therapeutics. The method includes providing ultrasound of a first frequency bandwidth directed toward the volume to be imaged the volume containing a carrier having non linear acoustical properties wherein the ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth causes the carrier to generate ultrasound of a second frequency bandwidth that is different from the first frequency bandwidth and receiving from the volume to be imaged ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth. The received ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth is used to generate an image of the volume to be imaged. The components of the second frequency bandwidth that are detected are of a frequency greater than 20 MHz.

The subject matter described herein for high frequency contrast imaging and image guided therapeutics may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. As such the terms function or module as used herein refer to hardware software and or firmware for implementing the feature being described. In one exemplary implementation the subject matter described herein may be implemented using a computer readable medium having stored thereon computer executable instructions that when executed by the processor of a computer control the computer to perform steps. Exemplary computer readable media suitable for implementing the subject matter described herein include non transitory computer readable media such as disk memory devices chip memory devices programmable logic devices and application specific integrated circuits. In addition a computer readable medium that implements the subject matter described herein may be located on a single device or computing platform or may be distributed across multiple devices or computing platforms.

As used herein the term contrast agents refers to gas filled particles stabilized by a lipid protein or polymer shell or to liquid filled particles stabilized by a lipid protein or polymer shell where the liquid has an impedance mismatch of at least a factor of 2 from that of blood plasma.

As used herein the terms drug delivery vehicles and drug carrier vehicles refer to gas filled particles stabilized by a lipid protein or polymer shell which also include a therapeutic compound either within the shell or attached to the shell. These terms refer also to liquid filled particles stabilized by a lipid protein or polymer shell where the liquid has an impedance mismatch of at least a factor of 2 from that of blood plasma and a therapeutic compound is included either within the liquid core or attached to the shell.

As used herein the terms gene delivery vehicles and gene carrier vehicles refer to gas filled particles stabilized by a lipid protein or polymer shell which also include a plasmid virus or small interfering RNA siRNA either within the shell or attached to the shell. These terms refer also to liquid filled particles stabilized by a lipid protein or polymer shell where the liquid has an impedance mismatch of at least a factor of 2 from that of blood plasma and a plasmid virus or siRNA is included either within the liquid core or attached to the shell.

In one embodiment the components of ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth that are detected by transducer are of a frequency greater than 20 MHz. In alternative embodiments the components of ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth that are detected by transducer are of a frequency greater than 20 MHz such as greater than 25 MHz or even higher frequencies.

Examples of carrier include but are not limited to an acoustically active liposphere a liposome a gas filled agent a liquid perfluorocarbon droplet and a contrast agent. Carrier may also be a substance having an acoustical property such as acoustic impedance for example that is different from an acoustical property of biological tissue. Carrier may be or contain a therapeutic compound. In one embodiment carrier may have an outer surface having one or more molecular structures for attaching the carrier to biological structures or that target a cell receptor or multiple cell receptors.

For simplicity of explanation the term transducer will hereinafter be used to refer to devices that may transmit ultrasound devices that may receive ultrasound or devices that both transmit and receive ultrasound.

Likewise the term multi frequency transducer will refer to a transducer that can transmit and or receive signals in two or more frequency bandwidths. This term includes but it not limited to dual frequency transducers. Although the examples given below may be addressed to dual frequency transducers the subject matter described herein is not so limited but may be applied to triple frequency transducers quadruple frequency transducers and so on.

Alternative structures for the multi frequency transducers are also contemplated. Structures for dual frequency transducers for example include arrangements in which the LF and HF transducers are coplanar stacked one above the other or inter dispersed within each other array based 1D 1.5D 2D etc. . . . where their beams are co registered or where the beam profiles are known with respect to each other. Examples of transducer technologies include piezoelectric stacks capacitive micromachined ultrasonic transducers CMUTS and piezoelectric micromachined ultrasonic transducers PMUTS . In one embodiment the 12 dB bandwidths of the first and second frequency range do not overlap each other.

In one embodiment the transducer is mechanically scanned where excitation is switched between the low frequency and high frequency element on successive sweeps across the area to be imaged or on alternate transmit lines. In one embodiment the high frequency element receives the ultrasonic reflections from both the low frequency and high frequency sweeps but the system encodes or presents the information acquired during the low frequency sweep differently from the information acquired during the high frequency sweep. For example information acquired during the low frequency sweep may be presented in one color and information acquired during the high frequency sweep may be presented in another color. Likewise information acquired during the low frequency sweep may be encoded differently from information acquired during the high frequency sweep. This allows the system to make a distinction between contrast agent and tissue for example and can generate an image where contrast agent and tissue are displayed in colors that are different from each other. The same techniques can be employed by a transducer that is not mechanically scanned but rather is a multi frequency array. Example dual frequency arrays include transducers with multiple transceivers arranged in alternating rows or a checkerboard pattern for example or other array arrangements. The same techniques can be employed by transducers using phased arrays instead of using mechanisms to sweep or scan the transducer.

The technology described herein for dual frequency ultrasound has several applications. One application is for high frequency high resolution contrast imaging with a large contrast to tissue ratio. By using two confocal transducers a low frequency element to excite the bubbles near resonance and a high frequency element to receive scattered ultrasound from microbubbles it is possible to simultaneously improve spatial resolution and suppress backscatter from tissue. Examples of volumes that would benefit from the imaging and image guided therapeutics systems and methods described herein include but are not limited to veins arteries venules arterioles capillaries and lymphatic structures. One embodiment of this process is described in .

At block of ultrasound of a first frequency bandwidth is directed toward the volume to be imaged the volume containing a carrier having non linear acoustical properties. The ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth causes the carrier to generate ultrasound of a second frequency bandwidth that is different from the first frequency bandwidth. For example transducer may direct ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth toward volume which contains carrier . In one embodiment carrier is a contrast agent and transducer generates a low frequency ultrasonic bandwidth which causes carrier to generate a response in a high frequency ultrasonic bandwidth.

At block ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth is received from the volume to be imaged. For example ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth is received by transducer from volume .

At block the received ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth is used to generate an image of the volume to be imaged where the components of the second frequency bandwidth that are detected are of a frequency greater than 20 MHz. For example the ultrasound received by transducer is processed by control module and used to produce an image which is an image of the volume to be imaged . In one embodiment the first frequency bandwidth has a center frequency in the range from 0.8 MHz to 10 MHz.

In one embodiment the ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth may be used to affect the position size or structural integrity of the carrier to affect the proximity of the carrier relative to a target portion of the volume to be imaged to affect vascular permeability of tissue in the volume to be imaged or to affect the temperature within the volume to be imaged. In one embodiment the ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth may be used for sonophoresis.

Another application of this dual frequency approach is for site localized application of radiation force for enhancement of targeted imaging or for enhanced delivery of drug delivery carriers. Acoustic radiation force is maximized near the resonant frequency of the microbubble 0.5 8 MHz range for bubbles of several microns in diameter and therefore is not optimized at high frequencies. However the dual frequency probe allows high resolution imaging with simultaneous application of radiation force to a desired area. The desired area can be chosen with software with enables a region of interest to be selected on the high frequency image and then the low frequency transducer is activated to apply radiation force only in that region of interest. One embodiment of this process is described in .

At block ultrasound of a first frequency bandwidth is used to generate an image of a first portion of a volume to be imaged the volume containing a carrier. In for example transducer may use high frequency ultrasound to generate an image of a first portion of volume to be imaged e.g. to generate an image of an organ.

At block the generated image of the first portion of the volume is used to select a second portion of the volume that is less than all of the first portion of the volume. For example a user of system may select a portion of generated image such as a diseased or damaged portion of an organ.

At block ultrasound of a second frequency bandwidth that is different from the first frequency bandwidth is provided to the second portion of the volume. For example transducer may direct low frequency ultrasound to the selected portion of an organ. In one embodiment the center frequency of the first frequency bandwidth is a higher frequency than the center frequency of the second frequency bandwidth. For example in one embodiment the center frequency of the first frequency bandwidth is greater than or equal to 10 MHz. In one embodiment the center frequency of the second frequency bandwidth is less than or equal to 10 MHz. In one embodiment the 12 dB bandwidths of the first and second frequency range do not overlap each other.

In one embodiment the ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth may be used to affect the position size or structural integrity of the carrier to affect the proximity of the carrier relative to a target portion of the volume to be imaged to affect vascular permeability of tissue in the volume to be imaged or to affect the temperature within the volume to be imaged. In one embodiment the ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth may be used for sonophoresis.

In one embodiment carrier may be a contrast agent and ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth may cause carrier to generate ultrasound having at least some components within the first frequency bandwidth. For example a first frequency bandwidth may be a high frequency ultrasonic bandwidth that is used to generate an image of an organ containing a contrast agent. The second frequency bandwidth may be a low frequency ultrasonic bandwidth that is used to direct carrier to a desired location within the organ. The same or a different low frequency ultrasonic bandwidth may cause carrier to generate a high frequency ultrasonic bandwidth response which may be used to further enhance the image of the organ.

Yet another application of the dual or multi frequency transducer and software is for site targeted drug and gene delivery. Ultrasonically mediated drug delivery which may consist of microbubble or drug delivery vehicle rupture sonoporation or vascular permeability enhancement and gene delivery are all optimized at low frequencies 0.5 8 MHz and typically closer to 0.5 2 MHz. The dual frequency probe approach allows high resolution image guided drug and gene delivery.

In one embodiment the ultrasound of the second frequency bandwidth may be used to affect the position size or structural integrity of the carrier to affect the proximity of the carrier relative to a target portion of the volume to be imaged to affect vascular permeability of tissue in the volume to be imaged or to affect the temperature within the volume to be imaged. In one embodiment the ultrasound of the first frequency bandwidth may be used for sonophoresis.

This technology achieves a significant advance in the signal to noise ratio that a high frequency ultrasound system 15 MHz can have for detection of ultrasound contrast agents. The technology also describes how high frequency ultrasound can be used for ultrasound guidance for ultrasound mediated therapy. In one embodiment a dual frequency ultrasound technique is used in which a single transducer produces both low frequency ultrasound LFUS and high frequency ultrasound HFUS . The boundary frequency that distinguishes a low frequency US from a high frequency US is not strictly defined but typical applications place that boundary frequency in the 1 10 MHz range. Thus in one application LFUS means less than 5 MHz and HFUS means greater than 5 MHz . In another application LFUS may be less than 10 MHz while HFUS is greater than 10 MHz. In one embodiment of the subject matter described herein detection and use of high frequency US having a frequency component at or above 20 MHz is presented.

Imaging. In one embodiment a dual or multi frequency transducer generates LFUS in the range of 1 5 MHz to excite microbubbles near resonance and detect harmonic content above 25 MHz. Detection of energy at frequencies higher than the center frequency such as detection of higher frequency harmonics is herein referred to as ultra broadband imaging . This provides high sensitivity to contrast agents with high resolution and superior tissue rejection. Preliminary in vivo tests with this probe have been performed on rats. In one study exemplary images of the animals left kidneys were obtained for multiple bolus injections in both dual frequency imaging mode and standard B mode imaging mode in which a linear array of transducers simultaneously scans a plane through the body that can be viewed as a two dimensional image on screen. The resulting contrast to tissue ratios within the imaging regions of interest were determined offline and compared.

Additionally susceptibility to tissue motion was compared against standard power Doppler imaging. This ultra broadband imaging approach demonstrated spatial resolution near that of the high frequency element 30 MHz and contrast to tissue ratios 15 dB greater using the ultra broadband imaging approach compared to standard 30 MHz B mode. Ultra broadband imaging is demonstrated to be not affected by tissue motion since this method does not rely on detecting signal decorrelation or require background subtraction unlike power Doppler or image subtraction contrast imaging methods. Ultra broadband imaging can be implemented on a high resolution ultrasound system by utilizing a dual frequency transducer with a substantial improvement in contrast to tissue detection compared to B mode imaging and robustness in the presence of tissue motion compared to signal subtraction or power Doppler contrast detection techniques. This technology provides a substantial improvement in sensitivity for ultrasonic molecular imaging and slow flow perfusion imaging in animal models.

In one embodiment a dual or multi frequency transducer generates a HFUS signal in the 30 MHz range for high resolution image guidance and a LFUS signal in the 1 4 MHz range for therapeutic use. Potential therapeutic uses include using radiation force to affect the location of carriers containing therapeutic compounds such that the carriers are concentrated in an area to which the therapeutic compound is being targeted e.g. a tumor site. The same transducer could be used to pop or rupture the carrier bubbles which delivers a particular dose of the therapeutic compound to the targeted area.

In one example application biotinylated MCAs were injected through a 200 um cellulose tube coated with avidin. RF pulses lasting 10 s were delivered to the tube and the efficiency of this targeting was verified optically. Scattered US signals from free and targeted contrast agents were delineated by applying slow time filters to the radio frequency data. Additionally the image intensities in the B Mode images were compared in regions with and without the RF pulses. This technique is capable of pushing a polydisperse distribution of MCAs moving with a linear flow velocity of 44 mm s a distance of 200 um perpendicular to their direction of motion and against buoyancy in 10 ms. Using a 10 second RF pulse the probe has proven capable of improving the binding efficiency of freely flowing targeted MCAs in a localized area. Signal processing on the radio frequency data confirmed a localized region of enhanced signal intensity from increased adhesion of targeted contrast agents in the region of RF application. Signal processing of stationary echo signals from RF data allows display of targeted contrast agent signal overlaid with B mode image data.

These effects were verified in vivo where the dual frequency transducer prototype utilized 30 MHz ultrasound to image a subcutaneous tumor in a rat. A molecularly targeted microbubble vehicle was administered into the rodent s bloodstream through the tail vein and then low frequency ultrasound at 2.5 MHz was administered to the tumor region for 30 seconds. The dual frequency transducer enabled low frequency ultrasound delivery to the tumor region via high frequency image guidance. This resulted in a substantial increase in the delivery of the microbubble vehicles to the vasculature of the treated tumor. Ultrasound imaging using the dual frequency method transmission at 2.5 MHz and reception with the 30 MHz element before and after radiation force administration illustrated a 13 dB in signal enhancement in signal improvement corresponding to this enhanced microbubble retention.

In one embodiment an ultrasound dual or multi frequency transducer is provided having the capability to transmit energy to a volume at a low frequency LF 0.5 8 MHz and simultaneously receive from this volume or transmit and receive from this volume at high frequencies HF 15 75 MHz . In one embodiment the transducer could be a multi element annular array where one or more elements are low frequency 0.5 5 MHz and one or more elements are high frequency 15 75 MHz . Alternative embodiments of the dual frequency transducer include a linear array with a mixture of both low frequency 0.5 8 MHz and high frequency 15 75 MHz components a phased array with a mixture of both low frequency 0.5 8 MHz and high frequency 15 75 MHz components a 2 d matrix array with a mixture of both low frequency 0.5 8 MHz and high frequency 15 75 MHz components and a multi layer transducer with a mixture of both low frequency 0.5 8 MHz and high frequency 15 75 MHz components.

In one embodiment a dual frequency transducer is used to excite ultrasound contrast agents defined as gas liquid or solid particles from 100 nm 10 microns in diameter with an acoustic impedance at least 2 times different than that of blood plasma between 0.5 8 MHz with a single acoustic pulse of 1 5 cycles while simultaneously receiving echo signatures with frequencies content between 15 75 MHz.

In one embodiment a dual frequency transducer is used to excite ultrasound contrast agents between 0.5 8 MHz and pulse lengths of 1 20 cycles while simultaneously interrogating transmit and receive the contrast agents with a second pulse of 1 5 cycles at a high frequency between 15 75 MHz.

In one embodiment a dual frequency transducer is used to excite ultrasound contrast agents between 0.5 8 MHz and pulse lengths of 1 20 000 000 cycles in order to cause a physical translation of the contrast agent due to acoustic radiation force or acoustic streaming.

In one embodiment a dual frequency transducer is used to excite ultrasound contrast agents between 0.5 8 MHz and pulse lengths of 1 20 000 000 cycles in order to cause a physical translation of the contrast agent due to acoustic radiation force or acoustic streaming where the contrast agents are imaged within 5 seconds prior to and after the acoustic radiation force pulse. imaging could be as described in 2 or 3 or with transmit and receive at frequencies from 15 75 MHz .

In one embodiment a dual frequency transducer is used to excite ultrasound contrast agents between 0.5 8 MHz and pulse lengths of 1 20 000 000 cycles in order to cause a physical translation of the contrast agent due to acoustic radiation force or acoustic streaming where the contrast agents are imaged during the acoustic radiation force pulse. imaging could be as described in 2 or 3 or with transmit and receive at frequencies from 15 75 MHz .

In one embodiment a dual frequency transducer is used to disrupt ultrasound contrast agents with acoustic pulses between 0.5 8 MHz with simultaneous imaging at frequencies from 15 75 MHz

The systems and methods described herein are not limited to use with ultrasound contrast agents but may be used with drug carrying microbubbles microparticles or acoustically active vehicles that carry a therapeutic agent or with acoustically active vehicles that carry a gene delivery agent are utilized. For example in one embodiment a dual frequency transducer may be used to disrupt drug carrying microbubbles microparticles or acoustically active vehicles that carry a therapeutic agent with acoustic pulses between 0.5 8 MHz with simultaneous imaging at frequencies from 15 75 MHz or to disrupt gene delivery vehicles with acoustic pulses between 0.5 8 MHz with simultaneous imaging at frequencies from 15 75 MHz.

The systems and methods described herein may include or make use of software that allows selection of a region of interest either in 2 D or 3 D in combination with a dual frequency transducer where the overall image is created by the high frequency component 15 75 MHz of the transducer and the low frequency component of the transducer is energized selectively across only the region of interest. In one embodiment a low frequency component such as in the 0.5 8 MHz range is used to apply acoustic radiation force in the selected area. Alternatively the low frequency component may be used to fragment disrupt ultrasound contrast agents in the selected area or to fragment drug or gene delivery vehicles in the selected area. In one embodiment a low frequency component such as in the 0.5 5 MHz range may be used cause local enhancement in vascular and or cellular permeability with simultaneous imaging at 15 75 MHz. The systems and methods described herein may also be used in conjunction with administration of a microbubble or other cavitation nuclei.

Examples of the use of radiation force to direct carriers to a target site fragment the carriers and thus release therapeutic compounds as well as targeting and fragmentation combined with imaging of the treatment site using HFUS frequencies less than or equal to 20 MHz is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 358 226 herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

