---

title: Method and apparatus for network initiated uninstallation of application program over wireless network
abstract: Network-initiated uninstallation of programs on remote modules, such as wireless telephones, is performed over a wireless network to recall programs stored on the wireless telephone that are faulty or harmful to the wireless telephone, the wireless network, or a user of the wireless telephone. If one or more recall criteria are met for uninstallation of a targeted application program, a recall command source constructs a recall command. A program manager, using a database containing information about each program downloaded onto each wireless telephone in the network, identifies, for the recall command source, which wireless telephones carry the targeted application program. The recall command includes a unique application identification for the targeted application program and an instruction to the wireless telephone to uninstall the targeted application program. The recall command is broadcast over the wireless network to the wireless telephones. In response to the recall command, the wireless telephone automatically uninstalls the targeted application program by executing a recall program on the wireless telephone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08249577&OS=08249577&RS=08249577
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08249577
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100607
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 825 588 entitled METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR NETWORK INITIATED UNINSTALLATION OF APPLICATION PROGRAM OVER WIRELESS NETWORK filed on Apr. 3 2001 pending and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

This invention relates to the remote maintenance and deletion of programs using a wireless network. More particularly the invention concerns a network initiated recall or uninstallation of targeted application programs on remote modules such as wireless telephones.

Wireless telephones commonly used to communicate over a wireless network are evolving into an apparatus that provides its users with the same benefits of personal computers and hand held personal digital assistants PDAs . This transition from telephone to computer is being accomplished by the manufacturer s installation of application programming interfaces APIs onto the wireless telephones. Software developers using special software developer kits are writing programs specifically designed to be compatible with the wireless telephones having an API.

The APIs allow users of the wireless telephones to download and operate various programs using the wireless telephones. As a result it is anticipated that users of wireless telephones will customize their wireless telephones with programs that the user finds useful and entertaining. For example the user may use the wireless telephone to play games read books get stock updates and other news information or any other type of information or program that the user of the wireless telephone desires.

It is also anticipated that the programs will come pre loaded at the time the wireless telephone is purchased or the user may later request that additional programs be downloaded wirelessly over the air. The user of the wireless telephone also may delete programs from the wireless telephone as necessary or when desired.

However unlike traditional personal computers wireless telephones communicate and operate over a wireless network that is used by many other people to communicate. If the wireless network crashes or is saturated people will not be able to use the wireless telephones for their traditional and important basic function of communication.

A faulty program downloaded onto a wireless telephone may saturate the wireless network cause the network to crash or even pose safety risks to the user of the wireless telephone. For example a faulty program may interfere with or even stop the performance of entire parts of the wireless network including the base stations that broadcast messages to the wireless telephones. A faulty program also may cause the wireless telephones to saturate a network and prevent the routing of high priority calls such as 911 calls. There also may be safety concerns if a faulty program caused a wireless telephone to emit radio frequencies outside of normal safe ranges.

Broadly the present invention concerns network initiated uninstallation or recall of one or more programs on remote modules such as wireless telephones. The recall is performed over a wireless network.

Circumstances will arise dictating a recall of one or more programs downloaded onto wireless telephones. A recall may be necessary in response to customer dissatisfaction with the performance of a particular program in response to the detection of a pattern of problems affecting the wireless network linked to a program and or a program that causes the wireless telephone to malfunction or cease operating.

In response to these circumstances one or more persons or entities involved with the development and or issuance of the program the manufacturer of the wireless telephone and or persons or entities involved with the function of the wireless network such as a wireless telephone network provider or carrier collectively or singly referred to as recall command source decide whether a recall is necessary. For each program to be recalled targeted application program the recall command source constructs a recall command.

The recall command includes at a minimum a unique application identification for the targeted application program and an instruction to the wireless telephone to uninstall the targeted application program. A database maintained by a program manager keeps track of the application identifications for each program downloaded onto the wireless telephones and also keeps track of which wireless telephones have the targeted application program downloaded onto them.

The recall command source constructs the recall command and sends it to the wireless network. The base stations in the wireless network broadcast the recall command to the wireless telephones. Upon receipt of the recall command the wireless telephones automatically begin the process for uninstalling the targeted application program.

Alternatively the recall command source may send a more limited recall message to the wireless telephone. The recall message instructs the wireless telephone to send a message to the recall command source or another component of the wireless network to obtain the information necessary to uninstall the targeted application program.

Another aspect of the invention involves a recall process initiated by the wireless telephone. In this embodiment the wireless telephone is programmed to periodically send a message over the wireless network to the recall command source. The recall command source when contacted by the wireless telephone sends a recall command to the wireless telephone for any applications that need to be uninstalled. Alternatively the recall command instructs the wireless telephone to contact another component of the wireless network to obtain the information necessary to uninstall the targeted application program.

Accordingly one embodiment of the invention involves different methods for uninstalling one or more targeted application programs resident upon a wireless telephone. A recall command source remotely issues a recall command in response to which the wireless telephone automatically uninstalls the targeted application program. Alternatively the wireless telephone periodically sends messages to the recall command source for any recall commands in response to which the wireless telephone automatically uninstalls the targeted application program.

In another embodiment the invention involves an apparatus such as a wireless telephone configured and programmed to automatically uninstall a targeted application program in response to a network initiated recall command. Alternatively the wireless telephone is configured and programmed to periodically send messages to obtain any recall commands in response to which the wireless telephone also is configured and programmed to automatically uninstall a targeted application program.

The invention affords a number of distinct advantages. Chiefly the invention affords a mechanism for controlling through network initiated uninstallation faulty or harmful application programs downloaded onto wireless telephones. Significantly the process is initiated and controlled by persons or entities operating the wireless network or the wireless telephone itself and not the user of the wireless telephone. The program manager identifies which wireless telephones have the targeted application program and the recall process is specifically targeted to those wireless telephones. This aspect ensures a high degree of uniformity speed and accuracy in the recall process. The invention also provides a number of other advantages and benefits that should be apparent from the following description of the invention.

The nature objectives and advantages of the invention will become more apparent to those skilled in the art after considering the following detailed description in connection with the accompanying drawings. As mentioned above the invention concerns network initiated uninstallation of one or more targeted application programs on a remote module such as a wireless telephone.

Referring to the invention is illustrated in the context of a wireless telephone . The wireless telephone is used as an example without any intended limitation. The invention may alternatively be performed on any form of remote module capable of communicating though a wireless network including without limitation personal digital assistants PDAs wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers access terminals telephones without a display or keypad or any combination or sub combination thereof. These examples of remote modules also may have a user interface such as a keypad visual display or sound display.

The exemplary wireless telephone shown in includes a microprocessor logic circuit assembly of discrete circuit elements application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other data processing entity. In the example of this processing entity is implemented as an ASIC installed at the time the wireless telephone is manufactured. The ASIC is a hardware component that is driven by software included in the ASIC. This processing circuitry may also include an API as illustrated by the API which is installed in the wireless telephone at the time of manufacture. The API is a software layer configured to interact with the ASIC and runs on the ASIC hardware. The API serves as an interface between the ASIC hardware and application programs discussed below installed on the wireless telephone . Alternatively the wireless telephone may contain any other form of circuitry that would allow programs to be operated in a manner that is compatible with the hardware configuration of the wireless telephone . The wireless telephone also includes storage . The storage comprises RAM and ROM but alternatively may be any form of memory such as EPROM EEPROM or flash card inserts.

Referring to the manufacturer not shown of the wireless telephone downloads application programs onto the storage of the wireless telephone at the time the wireless telephone is manufactured. These application programs include games books or any other type of data or software programs. The application programs also may be downloaded onto the wireless telephone over the air after the wireless telephone is manufactured.

The manufacturer also downloads a recall program onto the storage of the wireless telephone at the time the wireless telephone is manufactured. The recall program also may be installed over the air after the wireless telephone is manufactured.

As discussed in more detail below the recall program when executed by the wireless telephone uninstalls one or more targeted application programs stored on the wireless telephone . The targeted application program is an application program that needs to be uninstalled from the wireless telephone for various reasons discussed below. The recall program may additionally or alternatively be programmed to disable the targeted application program or reprogram it to perform differently.

In an alternative embodiment discussed below the wireless telephone is programmed to periodically poll a recall command source discussed in connection with for any instructions to recall a targeted application program . In this embodiment a recall polling program is downloaded onto the storage of the wireless telephone at the time the wireless telephone is manufactured. The recall polling program is software that is self executing at different intervals. The recall polling program may automatically execute every time the wireless telephone is turned on by a user and or at periodic time intervals while the wireless telephone is being operated by a user and or at times pre determined by the program such as pre determined dates or times of day .

The wireless telephone also includes a local database installed by the manufacturer. Sample contents of the local database are illustrated in . The local database contains at a minimum a record of the application identification unique to each application program stored on the wireless telephone . Additionally the local database may contain a record of the location of the application programs within the storage on the wireless telephone and any other information useful for keeping track of which application programs are downloaded on the wireless telephone and where they are located.

The application identifications for the application programs maintained in the local database correspond to the same application identifications for the application programs maintained in a program manager database discussed below . For example the application identification for an application program maintained on the program manager database for Race car 104Z is identical to the application identification for that application program on the local database on the wireless telephone .

The wireless telephone further includes a download client . The download client is a software program within the API that directs where each application program is stored as it is downloaded over the air onto the wireless telephone . The download client also maintains a record of where each application program is stored within the storage for the wireless telephone .

The program manager is any entity company that has developed and provided the API to wireless telephone manufacturers for installation on the wireless telephones . The program manager also is the entity that certifies the application programs as compatible with the APIs installed on the wireless telephones .

The program manager maintains a program manager database . Sample contents of the program manager database are illustrated in . The program manager database contains at a minimum a record of the application identifications representing each application program downloaded at any time onto each wireless telephone in the network an Electronic Service Number ESN representing the individual who downloaded the application program and a Mobile Identification Number MIN unique to the wireless telephone carrying that application program . Optionally the program manager database contains records of the wireless telephone model wireless network carrier the region where the wireless telephone is used and any other information useful to identify which wireless telephones are carrying which application programs .

The program manager also includes a recall command source . The recall command source is the person s or entity that makes the decision to recall one or more targeted application programs . The recall command source also is the entity that constructs a recall command discussed below that is broadcast to identified wireless telephones carrying the targeted application program s . Alternatively and without limitation the recall command source may be one or more persons or entities involved with the development and issuance of the targeted application program person s or entities involved with the manufacturing of the wireless telephones person s or entities involved with the function of any parts of the network and or any component of the network .

The program manager communicates with one or more computer servers via a network over the Internet preferably secured . The servers also communicate with a carrier network via a network over the Internet . The carrier network controls messages sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network communicates with the MSC by both the Internet and POTS plain ordinary telephone system collectively identified in as . The Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC in turn is connected to multiple base stations BTS . The MSC is connected to the BTS by both the Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information . The BTS broadcast messages wirelessly to the wireless telephones by short messaging service SMS or any other over the air method.

One example of a message broadcast by the BTS in the present invention is a recall command . As further discussed herein the wireless telephone carrying a targeted application program in response to receiving a recall command responds by uninstalling the program stored on the wireless telephone . The recall command is constructed by the recall command source that may or may not be the same person s or entities that made the decision to initiate a recall of the targeted application program . The recall command is sent by the recall command source over the network to be broadcast to the wireless telephones carrying the targeted application program .

Another example of a message broadcast by the BTS is a recall message . As further discussed herein a recall message is a message that is sent over the network by the recall command source to the wireless telephones carrying the targeted application program . In response to the recall message the wireless telephones automatically communicate with the recall command source . The recall command source sends the wireless telephones at a minimum the identity of the targeted application program and an instruction to uninstall the targeted application program . In response to receiving this information the wireless telephones uninstall the targeted application program . Alternatively the recall command source sends the wireless telephones an instruction to retrieve the identity of the targeted application program from another component of the network including without limitation a server .

As shown in the network includes many wireless telephones each capable of communicating wirelessly with various other network components via the BTS . In the present invention identified wireless telephones contain a targeted application program that is recalled through the use of recall commands or recall messages initiated by portions of the network other than the wireless telephones themselves. However in another embodiment the recall process is initiated by wireless telephones carrying the recall polling program . This alternative method to conduct a recall is discussed below.

In addition to the various hardware embodiments described above a different aspect of the invention concerns a method for constructing a wireless telephone including a recall program resident thereon and methods of remotely initiating a recall of one or more targeted application programs resident on the wireless telephone .

In step the wireless telephone is constructed by a manufacturer. In step the manufacturer downloads the recall program into the storage on the wireless telephone . In step the manufacturer also downloads one or more application programs onto the wireless telephone .

In step the program manager updates the program manager database to include a record of the application identification representing each application program downloaded onto each manufactured wireless telephone . This information may come directly from the manufacturer.

In step the wireless telephone receives downloads of one or more application programs over the air. While the application programs are certified by the program manager the actual programs are maintained at the carrier network but may be maintained at any location in the network capable of sending the application programs to the BTS to be broadcast to the wireless telephone . The user of the wireless telephone operates the wireless telephone to communicate over the network with the servers to select a desired application program . In response the carrier network sends the application program to the MSC to be transferred to the BTS that broadcast the application program to the wireless telephone .

In response to the wireless telephone receiving the application program the download client on the wireless telephone directs the application program to a particular location within the storage on the wireless telephone where the application program is stored.

Also in step either the server or the carrier network communicates the application identification unique to the application program that has been downloaded onto the wireless telephone to the program manager . The program manager updates the program manager database with a record of the application identification representing the additional application program that has been downloaded onto the wireless telephone step .

In step the wireless telephone updates its local database to include a record of the application identification unique to the application program that has been downloaded onto the wireless telephone . Thus the records of the application identifications maintained on the wireless telephone in the local database are identical to the records of the application identifications maintained on the wireless telephone in the program manager database .

In step the wireless telephone is operated to communicate and or run the application programs stored on the wireless telephone . For example the wireless telephone may be operated to run a game of Tetris followed by the initiation of a telephone call.

In step the wireless telephone may be reconfigured so as to store additional or fewer application programs . If the wireless telephone is operated to add application programs step and the update of the application identifications in step are repeated.

Conversely in step if the wireless telephone is operated to delete one or more application programs the wireless telephone directs the download client to locate the application program to be deleted and uninstalls the application program . After the application program is deleted the wireless telephone automatically updates its local database to delete the record of the application identification representing the deleted application program . The wireless telephone also automatically sends a message over the network to the program manager notifying the program manager of the deleted application program . In response the program manager updates the record of application identifications corresponding to that wireless telephone maintained in the program manager database step .

In step as opposed to user operation of the wireless telephone to delete an application program from the wireless telephone a recall command source decides to recall one or more of the application programs . In step the recall command source initiates the recall process as discussed below and the sequence ends.

In step the recall command source determines whether criteria are met for a recall of one or more targeted application programs . The recall command source may commence a recall under a number of circumstances such as notification from any part of the network that wireless telephones in the network are not operating correctly and or are crashing when a user operates the targeted application program developers of the targeted application program contacting any part of the network to notify it of an error in the targeted application program users of the wireless telephone contacting any part of the network with complaints about the targeted application program any part of the network receiving statistical feedback of problems with the interaction between the targeted application program and other application programs on the wireless telephone discovering a software virus in the targeted application program and or discovering that the user s operation of the targeted application program increases the amount of radio frequency emitted from the wireless telephone such that operation of the targeted application program poses a safety risk.

In step the actual decision to recall made by the recall command source may be reached by an individual a committee or be electronically determined for example from statistical feedback from the wireless telephones or other parts of the network . The scope of the recall would depend on the nature of the problem and the number of wireless telephones affected by the problem. For example the recall may extend to all wireless telephones in the network all wireless telephones within a particular geographic region specific wireless telephone models a range of ESNs or a single wireless telephone .

In step the recall command source contacts the program manager to obtain the unique application identification representing the targeted application program assuming this information is not already available to the recall command source . In step the program manager researches the program manager database that maintains the application identifications representing each application program stored on each wireless telephone in the network . By searching the program manager database for the application identification of the targeted application program the program manager determines exactly which wireless telephones in the network contain the targeted application program and this information is communicated by the program manager to the recall command source .

In step the recall command source constructs a recall command . The recall command contains at a minimum the application identification representing the targeted application program and an instruction to the wireless telephone to uninstall the targeted application program . The recall command is written as an SMS but may be in any format that may be sent from the program manager to the BTS and broadcast over the air to the wireless telephones . Alternatively the recall command source may send the information necessary to construct the recall command over the network to the BTS that in turn may construct the recall command .

In step after the recall command is constructed and is at the BTS the BTS broadcast the recall command to the identified wireless telephones . The instruction to broadcast may be included as part of the recall command or separately programmed at the BTS . The BTS may broadcast the recall command in any cellular interface including AMPS PCS GSM or CDMA.

In step the wireless telephones receive the recall command responsive to which the wireless telephones automatically uninstall the targeted application program as discussed below.

Instead of the recall command source constructing a recall command that contains all of the information needed by the wireless telephone to uninstall the targeted application program alternatively the recall command source may construct and cause to be broadcast a more limited recall message . The recall message is a message to the wireless telephone that directs the wireless telephone to automatically initiate communications with the recall command source . These communications are transparent to a user of the wireless telephone . The recall command source in turn provides the wireless telephone with sufficient information to identify the targeted application program to be uninstalled and an instruction to uninstall the targeted application program . The recall command source also may provide the wireless telephone with the recall program necessary to uninstall the targeted application program . Responsive to receiving the identity of the targeted application program and alternatively a recall program the wireless telephone uninstalls the targeted application program in the manner described below.

Alternatively the recall command source may send the wireless telephone a recall message containing an instruction to retrieve information necessary to uninstall the targeted application program from another component of the network including without limitation a server . Transparent to a user of the wireless telephone in response to this recall message the wireless telephone obtains the identity of the targeted application program an instruction to uninstall the targeted application program and alternatively a recall program from another component of the network .

As an alternative to a recall process initiated by the recall command source in another embodiment the recall process is initiated by the wireless telephones themselves. In this embodiment the wireless telephones have the recall polling program downloaded on the telephones . The wireless telephones automatically execute the recall polling program at different intervals so that the wireless telephones are checking for any instructions to uninstall a targeted application program .

When executed the recall polling program causes the wireless telephone to automatically send a message by any over the air means to a recall command source . The recall command source is the person s entity or network component that makes the decision to recall one or more targeted application programs . Alternatively and without limitation the recall command source may be one or more persons or entities involved with the development and issuance of the targeted application program person s or entities involved with the manufacturing of the wireless telephones and or person s or entities involved with the function of any components of the network and or any component of the network .

The polling message sent by the wireless telephone to the recall command source requests that the recall command source send the wireless telephone a recall command to uninstall any targeted application program . This polling for a recall command may be done in various ways. For example the polling message sent by the wireless telephone may include identifying information about the wireless telephone sufficient for the recall command source to determine which application programs are downloaded on that particular wireless telephone . The recall command source may make this determination by referencing the program manager database containing information about each application program downloaded on each wireless telephone in the network . If the recall command source determines that there is a match between the application programs downloaded on that particular wireless telephone and the targeted application program the recall command source may proceed with sending the recall command . If there is no match the recall command source does not send a recall command .

Conversely the recall command source may in response to receiving the polling message from the wireless telephone automatically send any existing recall commands to the wireless telephone . The wireless telephone upon receiving the recall command determines whether the targeted application program is resident upon the wireless telephone . If so the wireless telephone proceeds with uninstalling the targeted application program .

As with the previous embodiments the recall command sent in response to a polling message contains at a minimum the application identification representing the targeted application program and an instruction to the wireless telephone to uninstall that program. Alternatively the recall command may instruct the wireless telephone to send a message to another component of the network such as a server to obtain the information necessary to complete the recall. As another alternative an abbreviated version of the recall command may be implemented where the recall command includes information representing the identity of any application programs that need to be uninstalled the mere presence of the recall command in the recall command source serving as an implied instruction for the telephone to execute the command.

For ease of explanation but without any limitation intended thereby the example of is described in the context of the hardware environment described in . In step the wireless telephone receives the recall command broadcast from the BTS in the network .

In step in response to receiving the recall command or the identity of a targeted application program and an instruction to uninstall that program the download client on the wireless telephone interprets the recall command to determine the application identification representing the targeted application program . The download client then sends the recall command to the recall program installed on the wireless telephone . The download client also communicates to the recall program information representing the location of the targeted application program in the storage .

In step the recall command reaches the recall program where it causes the recall program to execute and automatically uninstall the targeted application program . Alternatively the recall program may disable the targeted application program or take any other action that would cause the targeted application program to no longer function. The recall program also may be programmed to delete the recall command after the uninstallation is performed.

In step the wireless telephone automatically reports the completed uninstallation of the targeted application program to the recall command source . This report may be completed by an SMS or any other form of over the air message sent through the network .

In step the recall command source communicates the confirmation of the uninstallation to the program manager this step assumes that the recall command source and the program manager are not the same entity . The program manager updates the program manager database to reflect the fact that the wireless telephone no longer contains the targeted application program in an operable form. To do this the program manager deletes the application identification representing the targeted application program from the list of application programs downloaded on that particular wireless telephone .

In step the wireless telephone optionally automatically reports to the user of the wireless telephone that the targeted application program is no longer operable and or has been uninstalled. The form and wording of this report may be included in the recall command and the recall program on the wireless telephone may be programmed to cause the wireless telephone to make the report to the user in response to an instruction in the recall command . The report may contain the reason s behind the recall. The report also may direct the user of the wireless telephone to a customer service department or any third party to obtain information regarding the recall.

As discussed above the invention concerns methods including network initiated uninstallation of one or more targeted application programs resident upon a wireless telephone and constructing a wireless telephone including a recall program resident thereon. The invention also concerns methods for a wireless telephone polling the network to obtain recall commands to uninstall a targeted application program and constructing a wireless telephone with a recall polling program resident thereon.

In the context of these methods may be implemented for example by operating portion s of the network to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. These instructions may reside in various types of signal bearing media. This signal bearing media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of the network . Alternatively the instructions may be contained in another signal bearing media such as a magnetic data storage diskette not shown . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or elsewhere the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable signal bearing media including transmission media such as digital and analog.

As for the wireless telephones the methods discussed herein may be implemented with any type of circuitry microprocessors or other types of hardware in the wireless telephone .

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

