---

title: System for and method of dynamic extension assignment
abstract: A system for and method of system for performing dynamic extension assignment is presented. In one exemplary embodiment, the method may comprise receiving, via a network, an extension assignment request associated with a network endpoint, identifying the network endpoint based on one or more properties of the network endpoint, applying one or more rules to identify an extension to be assigned to the network endpoint based on the one or more properties of the endpoint, and assigning the extension to the network endpoint.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08613099&OS=08613099&RS=08613099
owner: Verizon Patent and Licensing Inc.
number: 08613099
owner_city: Basking Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
Extensions for multimedia communications may be assigned to network endpoints in packet switching networks. These extensions are statically assigned and are associated with a device. Assignment of extensions is used by many applications to regulate usage of multimedia applications. For example a Voice Over IP VOIP based application such as a call center application may limit logged in users to those with licenses. The licenses are associated one a one to one basis with extensions. Because extensions are assigned to a device statically a license is assigned to every terminal in a call center even though a much lower number of terminals are in use at any one point in time. Assigning an extension to every terminal prevents administrators from having to reassign statically assigned extensions among terminals to provide a license however it results in having to purchase significantly more licenses than are required at any one point in time. Additional applications for example video conferencing are also assigned extensions and licenses for each terminal regardless of the total number of terminals used at any one time.

Network devices are frequently assigned extensions for application purposes. An extension may be used to track licensed users of an application such as for example a call center application or a video conferencing application. A network using a SIP Session Initiation Protocol protocol for Voice Over IP or H.323 for multimedia may assign an extension to a network endpoint such as a terminal or other network device. The extension may be dynamically assigned.

According to one or more embodiments the method may comprise receiving via a network an extension assignment request associated with a network endpoint identifying the network endpoint based on one or more properties of the network endpoint applying one or more rules to identify an extension to be assigned to the network endpoint based on the one or more properties of the endpoint and assigning the extension to the network endpoint.

The description below describes network elements computers and components of a system of and method for performing dynamic extension assignment that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and may be included in both devices.

Networks and may be one or more of a wireless network a wired network or any combination of wireless network and wired network. For example networks and may include one or more of a fiber optics network a passive optical network a cable network an Internet network a satellite network e.g. operating in Band C Band Ku or Band Ka a wireless LAN a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM a Personal Communication Service PCS a Personal Area Network PAN D AMPS Wi Fi Fixed Wireless Data IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.15.1 802.11n and 802.11g or any other wired or wireless network for transmitting and receiving a data signal. In addition networks and may include without limitation telephone line fiber optics IEEE Ethernet 802.3 a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN or a global network such as the Internet. Also networks and may support an Internet network a wireless communication network a cellular network or the like or any combination thereof. Networks and may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Networks and may utilize one or more protocols of one or more network elements to which it is communicatively coupled. Networks and may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although networks and are each depicted as a single network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network and network may each comprise a plurality of interconnected networks such as for example a service provider network the Internet a broadcaster s network a cable television network a corporate network and a home network.

Network elements and data storage may transmit and receive data to and from networks and such as for example VOIP data videoconferencing data multimedia data and other data. The data may be transmitted and received utilizing a standard telecommunications protocol or a standard networking protocol. For example one embodiment may utilize Session Initiation Protocol SIP . In other embodiments the data may be transmitted and received utilizing H.323. In yet other embodiments data may also be transmitted and received using Wireless Application Protocol WAP Multimedia Messaging Service MMS Enhanced Messaging Service EMS Short Message Service SMS Global System for Mobile Communications GSM based systems Code Division Multiple Access CDMA based systems Transmission Control Protocol Internet TCP IP Protocols or other protocols and systems suitable for transmitting and receiving broadcast or parallel search data. Data may be transmitted and received wirelessly or may utilize cabled network or telecom connections such as an Ethernet RJ45 Category 5 Ethernet connection a fiber connection a traditional phone wireline connection a cable connection or other wired network connection. Networks and may use standard wireless protocols such as for example IEEE 802.11a 802.11b 802.11g and 802.11n. Networks and may also use protocols for a wired connection such as IEEE Ethernet 802.3.

Network elements and and data storage may include one or more processors for recording transmitting receiving and storing data. Although network elements and data storage are depicted as individual elements it should be appreciated that the contents of one or more of a network element and data storage may be combined into fewer or greater numbers of devices and may be connected to additional devices not depicted in . Furthermore the one or more devices may be local remote or a combination thereof to a first network element and data storage .

Data storage may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to network elements and . Data storage may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS or other computer accessible storage. In one or more embodiments Data storage may be a database such as an Oracle database a Microsoft SQL Server database a DB2 database a MySQL database a Sybase database an object oriented database a hierarchical database or other database. Data storage may utilize flat file structures for storage of data.

According to some embodiments data storage may be a relational database that may store extension data endpoint data license data business rules license rules and data associated with license usage. Data may be aggregated sorted processed and queried to identify one or more of extensions licenses network endpoints extension usage business rules domain information gateway information gatekeeper information Multipoint Control Unit MCU information Session Border Controller SBC information or other network information. According to some embodiments data storage may provide one or more APIs or other interfaces which may be used by a server or another network element to access or distribute information.

Network elements and may be one or more servers or server like devices such as a Session Initiation Protocol SIP server. Network elements and may include one or more processors not shown for recording transmitting receiving and storing data. According to one or more embodiments network elements and may contain SNMP Simple Network Management Protocol Managers and other network management tools. Network elements and may be servers of a service provider the Internet a broadcaster a cable television network or another media provider. According to some embodiments network element may be a Domain Name Server DNS a gateway or other network infrastructure.

Network elements and may provide Application Programming Interfaces APIs interface tables Remote Procedure Calls RPCs web services Extensible Markup Language XML based interfaces Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP based interfaces Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA and other interfaces for sending or receiving media searches preferences or other information.

According to some embodiments network elements and may be clients or endpoints. Network elements and may be wireline phones cellular phones mobile phones Personal Digital Assistants PDAs handheld MP3 players handheld video players personal media players gaming devices or other devices capable of communicating with network . Network elements and may be desktop computers laptop computers servers or other computers capable of sending and receiving network signals. Network elements and may use wired or wireless connections. According to one or more embodiments network elements and may connect to network using a wireless connection and may authenticate with a network using Wired Equivalent Privacy Wi Fi Protected Access or other wireless network security standards.

According to one or more embodiments network element may be a gateway a gatekeeper a Session Border Controller a Multi Point Control Unit MCU or another network element capable of capable of receiving and responding to endpoint extension requests. According to some embodiments network element may be an application server such as for example a server providing call center functionality video conferencing functionality or other multimedia application functionality using H.323 SIP or other technologies for assignment of an extension to an endpoint.

According to some embodiments extension assignment module may perform or facilitate one or more dynamically assigning one or more endpoint extensions. Extension assignment module may receive via a network an extension assignment request associated with a network endpoint. Extension assignment module may identify a network endpoint associated with an extension assignment request. Extension assignment module may assign an extension based on one or more properties associated with an network endpoint. For example an extension assignment request may contain one or more properties of the network endpoint such as an IP address a domain name a host name a MAC Media Access Control address and a network name. Extension assignment module may apply one or more rules to identify an extension to be assigned to the network endpoint based on the one or more properties of the endpoint such as the domain name associated with a network endpoint. A domain name or other property identified by information provided with an extension assignment request may be used by extension assignment module to determine a location of an endpoint. Based on the location of the endpoint extension assignment module may apply one or more business rules to map the endpoint to an extension.

Endpoints may be limited to certain pools of extensions for domains networks hosts or other logical or physical network delineations. Extension assignment module may manage one or more pools of extensions which may be databases lists flat files hierarchal files a queue a stack an associative array or other data structure or storage. For example extension assignment module may use data storage to store one or more pools of extensions. Once an extension is assigned to an endpoint an indicator or flag in a pool may be set to indicate that the extension is in use. Once an endpoint no longer is using an extension e.g. an endpoint logs out of an application or a network the extension may be freed up. For example extension assignment module may receive a notification that endpoint has is no longer using an extension and may mark an indicator or a flag in an extension pool to indicate the availability of the extension. According to some embodiments logs or other data structures may track usage of an extension such as for example timestamps associated with extension and an endpoint identifiers indicating the assignment of an extension to an endpoint and the freeing of an extension from an endpoint. Such logs or other data structures may be separate from or integrated with an extension pool and may be used for billing security planning or other purposes.

According to some embodiments extension assignment module may manage assignments of extensions on a network using one or more SIP protocols. Extension assignment module may reside on be integrated with or be communicatively coupled to one or more SIP network elements such as for example a Session Border Controller. Extension assignment module may use session information and SIP messages provided by a SIP network element such as for example a Session Border Controller to handle one or more portions of endpoint extension assignment functionality. According to some embodiments extension assignment module may be integrated with other network components or may be separate from network components. Extension assignment module may be a portion of an application which may be communicatively coupled to a SIP network element or other network element for one or more application purposes e.g. licensing security capacity management .

According to some embodiments extension assignment module may manage assignments of extensions on a network using one or more H.323 protocols. Extension assignment module may reside on be integrated with or be communicatively coupled to one or more network elements on an H.323 based network such as for example a gatekeeper or gateway. Extension assignment module may be a portion of an application which may be communicatively coupled to a H.323 network element or other network element for one or more application purposes e.g. licensing security capacity management .

According to some embodiments extension assignment module may be a portion of an application such as for example a Voice Over IP application a video conferencing application call center user management software licensing or for other application functionality. Extension assignment module may be used to monitor usage of an application by tracking assignment of extensions to endpoints

The various components of system as shown in may be further duplicated combined and integrated to support various applications and platforms. Additional elements may also be implemented in the systems described above to support various applications.

Bus may allow data communication between computer processor and memory and one or more other components. According to some embodiments memory may be the main memory into which an operating system and one or more application programs may be loaded. Applications or other software may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a magnetic disk drive or other storage medium e.g. network accessible storage accessed via network interface . For example extension assignment module may be resident in memory .

Storage interface may connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence .

Other devices or components may be connected in a similar manner e.g. digital cameras Uninterruptable Power Supplies etc . The components of are not required and one or more of the illustrated components may not be present in an embodiment. In some embodiments multiple components of a same type may be included e.g. multiple computer processors multiple storage interfaces etc. . The devices and subsystems may be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement one or more embodiments may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of memory fixed disk optical disk or removable magnetic disk . Code to implement the one or more embodiments may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS WINDOWS UNIX Linux Mac OS Mac OS X or another operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

Endpoint identification module may identify an endpoint associated with an extension assignment request. Endpoint identification module may use one or more properties of the network endpoint such as an IP address a domain name a host name a MAC address and a network name to identify an endpoint. Endpoint identification module may provide endpoint identification information to business rule module .

Business rule module may apply one or more rules to identify an extension to be assigned to a network endpoint based on the one or more properties of the endpoint such as the domain name associated with a network endpoint. A domain name or other property identified by information provided with an extension assignment request may be used by business rule module to determine a location of an endpoint. Based on the location of the endpoint business rule module may apply one or more business rules to map the endpoint to an extension. Endpoints may be limited to certain pools of extensions for domains networks hosts or other logical or physical network delineations. Business rule module may identify an extension for an endpoint and may provide such information to extension management module .

Extension management module may manage one or more pools of extensions which may be databases lists flat files hierarchal files a queue a stack an associative array or other data structure or storage. For example extension management module may use data storage to store one or more pools of extensions. Once an extension is assigned to an endpoint an indicator or flag in a pool may be set to indicate that the extension is in use. Once an endpoint no longer is using an extension e.g. an endpoint logs out of an application a domain or a network the extension may be indicated as available by extension management module .

Error handling and reporting module may handle one or more errors associated with extension assignment to network endpoints. Error handling and reporting module may provide alerts or messages to administrators in the event of an error. Error handling and reporting module may produce one or more reports including diagnostic test result reports and corrective action reports. Error handling and reporting module may produce log files and reports in one or more formats.

At block an endpoint registration request may be received. The endpoint registration request may be received by a gateway a gatekeeper a session border controller an application server or another network element. The endpoint registration request may contain information identifying one or more attributes of the requesting network endpoint such as for example an IP address a domain name a host name a MAC address and a network name.

At block a requesting network endpoint may be identified. One or more attributes such as for example an IP address may be used to identify a network endpoint. According to some embodiments identification of an endpoint may be used to provide records or logs of usage by a network endpoint. Timestamps or other data may be used to indicate usage such as the beginning of a session the end of a session a duration of a session. This data may be used for billing licensing troubleshooting planning security or other purposes. According to some embodiments it may be sufficient to identify only a network a domain or a portion of a network or a domain. This information may be used to apply business rules to map a requesting endpoint to an extension.

At block it may be determined whether an extension is available in one or more pools of extensions. Pools of extensions which may be databases lists flat files hierarchal files a queue a stack an associative array or other data structure or storage. Once an extension is assigned to an endpoint an indicator or flag in a pool may be set to indicate that the extension is in use. Once an endpoint no longer is using an extension e.g. an endpoint logs out of an application or a network the extension may be indicated as available by setting one or more flags or indicators. Pools of extensions may be separated by an associated network application domain or other attributes. If an extension is available for the requesting network endpoint the method may continue at block . If an extension is not available for the requesting network endpoint the method may end at block .

At block one or more business rules may be applied to map a network endpoint to an extension. Business rules may map an extension to an endpoint based on attributes associated with the network endpoint. Business may enforce or facilitate licensing rules security rules capacity management rules or other organization objectives. For example a network endpoint may be associated with a client device requesting an extension for one or more of a VOW call a video conference or launching a licensed application. The application of business rules may identify an extension for the network endpoint. For example a business rule may determine which pools of extensions may be assigned to an endpoint based on a network location of the endpoint e.g. a domain a subnet or an IP address . According to some embodiments business rules may use a network endpoint priority setting as a factor in identifying an available endpoint.

At block the identified extension may be assigned to the requesting network endpoint. The extension may be marked as assigned in a pool of extensions by setting a flag or other indicator. Other information may be recorded such as for example a network endpoint associated with the extension date information e.g. an assignment date and time an associated use e.g. VOW an application name and a client type e.g. smart phone terminal laptop etc. . The assignment information may be provided to the network endpoint via one or more network communications e.g. a SIP message and an H.323 message . According to some embodiments an application residing on a centralized network element e.g. an application handling a VOIP call or a video conference may be provided the assignment information and may use the assignment to provide application functionality to the network endpoint. The assignment of an extension of to a network endpoint may allow usage of a licensed application such as for example a call center application by the network endpoint.

Once the an extension has been assigned to the network endpoint the network endpoint may be registered at block .

At block the method may determine if an extension has been freed. For example a network endpoint may log out of an application or the network. A gateway a gatekeeper a MCU a SBC or another network element may receive a network communication indicating that a network endpoint has logged out terminated a session or another indicator that an extension is available. According to some embodiments one or more factors may be considered when determining whether an extension is available. For example one or more settings may determine allowable usage of an extension e.g. a maximum length permissible connection times permissible connection purposes or permissible users . If an endpoint is not meeting one or more settings determining allowable usage of an extension the extension may be freed for use. According to some embodiments one or more network endpoints e.g. a host may receive priority in assignment of an extension. If an extension is not available for a priority network endpoint an extension may be freed from a lower priority network endpoint. If an endpoint is no longer using an extension the method may continue at block . If an endpoint is still using an extension the method may wait at block .

At block the method may wait to receive an indication that an extension is available. According to some embodiments the method may check after a specified period of time to determine whether an extension is still in use. If a specified period of time has elapsed or an indication of extension availability has been received the method may return to block .

At block an indicator or a flag in an extension pool be set or unset to indicate the availability of the extension. According to some embodiments logs or other data structures may track usage of an extension such as for example timestamps associated with extension and an endpoint identifiers indicating the assignment of an extension to an endpoint and the freeing of an extension from an endpoint. After freeing an extension the method may end at block .

It is further noted that the software described herein may be tangibly embodied in one or more physical media such as but not limited to a compact disc CD a digital versatile disc DVD a floppy disk a hard drive read only memory ROM random access memory RAM as well as other physical media capable of storing software or combinations thereof. Moreover the figures illustrate various components e.g. servers computers etc. separately. The functions described as being performed at various components may be performed at other components and the various components may be combined or separated. Other modifications also may be made.

In the preceding specification various preferred embodiments have been described with references to the accompanying drawings. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto and additional embodiments may be implemented without departing from the broader scope of invention as set forth in the claims that follow. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

