---

title: Screening system and method of using same
abstract: An integrated apparatus and method for screening an object for a target material is provided. The integrated apparatus comprises a housing and an integrated screener. The housing is positionable adjacent the object, and has a channel therethrough. The integrated screener is positionable in the housing, and comprises a fan, at least one filter, a heater and an analyzer. The fan is for drawing air carrying particles and vapor through the channel of the housing. The filter(s) is/are positionable in the channel of the housing for passage of the air therethrough. The filter(s) comprise(s) at least one metal foam having a plurality of pores therein for collecting and adsorbing a sample from the particles and vapor passing therethrough. The heater is for applying heat to the at least one metal foam whereby the collected sample is desorbed from the metal foam. The analyzer detects the target material from the desorbed sample.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08695443&OS=08695443&RS=08695443
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08695443
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100830
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to techniques for screening objects. More particularly the present invention relates to techniques for screening e.g. collecting sampling detecting analyzing etc. objects for the presence of certain materials such as controlled substances.

Controlled substances such as explosives e.g. C4 TNT dynamite fuels chemicals casted and or other volatile materials contraband e.g. illegal drugs chemical agents e.g. toxins etc. may pose a significant threat to persons and or property. In an effort to prevent the unauthorized use or possession of such controlled substances steps are often taken to locate target materials e.g. materials used in connection with and or incorporated in such controlled substances before they can be used. Materials not used in connection with controlled substances may also be target materials. In many cases such target materials may be hidden or stored to prevent detection or are only present in small volumes.

Techniques have been developed in an attempt to detect the presence of certain target materials. Some techniques involve off line laboratory analysis such as monitoring environmental pollutants and in industrial hygiene monitoring. Other techniques involve on line processes such as detection systems used at checkpoints to interrogate personnel or vehicles for the target materials. Interrogation often involves the collection of materials from persons or objects using various collectors such as volume thin foil and membrane filters. Foam or other porous materials may be employed as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 430 928 and in Grate Anheier and Baldwin Volume 77 Issue 6 Mar. 15 2005 pp. 1867 75.

Once the material is collected it may then be released into small volumes for introduction into a detection system in a process known as pre concentration. Techniques such as pre concentrators have been developed for handling trace amounts of materials as described for example in US Patent Application Nos. 20060271211 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 948 325 6 617 591 6 477 907 7 299 711 6 345 545 6 617 591 6 604 406 6 572 825 6 523 393 6 085 601 RE38 797 5 854 431 6 978 657 and 6 171 378. The pre concentrated material may then be examined by a detector to determine if the target material is present. Detectors have been developed to identify the presence of explosive materials as described for example in US Patent Application No. 20060271211 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 978 657 6 948 325 6 617 591 and 6 477 907. Some techniques involve the use of handheld devices as described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 092 156 and 6 978 657.

Despite the development of techniques for collecting pre concentrating or detecting certain materials there remains a need to provide advanced systems and methods for screening for such materials. It may be desirable to have techniques that perform integrated operations. It may further be desirable to provide techniques that enable screening of materials in a variety of locations and or positions. Preferably such techniques involve one or more of the following among others low cost design and ease of use.

Presently preferred embodiments of the invention are shown in the above identified Figures and described in detail below.

The integrated sampling system as shown in includes is a screening apparatus or portal that may be used for removing material from an object such as a person . The portal has a housing with a chamber for receiving the person and collecting samples therefrom. Fluids such as air or other gases referred to herein as air may be passed into portal via ports over the person and through inlet as indicated by the arrows. As air is passed over the person materials in the form of vapor and or particles are removed from the object and passed along with the air through inlet

The integrated system further includes an integrated screener for screening material from the object . The integrated screener is depicted as being positioned on top of the portal and in fluid communication with portal via an inlet therein. However it will be appreciated that the integrated screener may be located anywhere for receipt of the air passed over the person as indicated by the arrows. The integrated screener is preferably capable of receiving the material e.g. vapor and or particles carried by the air as it passes through inlet . After passing through integrated screener the air less any retained material such as particles and or vapor may exit through outlet Ilia.

The integrated sampling system as shown in FIG. IB includes a screening apparatus or screening wand that may be used for screening material from an object such as an object or box . The screening wand has a housing positionable adjacent the object for collecting samples therefrom Air adjacent the object may be drawn into screening wand through inlet as indicated by the arrows. As air is passed over the object material e.g. vapor and or particles are removed from the object passed through inlet and into the screening wand

The integrated system further includes an integrated screener for screening for certain materials about the object . The integrated screener is preferably capable of receiving the material e.g. vapor and or particles carried by the air as it passes through screening wand

The screening wand comprises a housing with a handle for handheld operation. As shown the screening wand is gripped by a person and positionable adjacent to the object . The integrated screener is depicted as being positioned within the screening wand and in fluid communication with the inlet therein. However it will be appreciated that the integrated screener may be positioned anywhere about the object for receipt of the air passed over the object and material drawn therefrom as indicated by the arrows.

The screening portal and or screening wand may be operatively connectable to other devices such as processor a power supply communicator database alarm and or other electrical devices. Links such as cable wireless or other conventional connectors may be provided to electrically connect the systems and or to such electrical devices for the passage of power and or communication signals therebetween. Alarm may be used to sound upon detection of the target material or other event. Some or all such electronic devices may be incorporated within the systems and or integrated screeners

Processor may be used to further evaluate data collected from by the systems and or . The material collected and or data generated from the screener may be used to generate reports and or process external data with data collected by the systems . The external data may for example provide information about the object the target material historical data and or other information that may be used in combination with data collected by systems

The power supply may be an external power source such as an electrical motor or an internal power source such as a battery. The screening portal and or wand may be provided with links that operatively connect to the external power source. Preferably the screening portal and or wand may be powered for remote and or portable use. Detachable connectors not shown may be provided to selectively connect to external electronics such as the power supply.

Air entering inlet and passing into the integrated screener is passed through the filters . The filters are preferably configured to capture vapor and or particles from the air passing therethrough.

Particles and vapors may be removed from the filter by washing the filter with a liquid dissolving the particles and vapors with a solvent and or thermally desorbing the particles and vapor into a carrier gas. For thermal desorption the filter may be heated by the heater . Once heated the particles are desorbed and condensed into a sample received by analyzer . As depicted the heated filter is preferably capable of desorbing the vapor and particles. However if desired liquid such as a sorbent or other solvent may be positioned in the filter to capture the vapor and particles.

Analyzer collects data from the samples to detect pre defined materials in the sample. The analyzer may be any detector capable of detecting a pre determined material in the particle and or vapors in the air passing through the integrated screener . Examples of detection techniques that may be used involve ion mobility spectrometry electron capture device gas chromatograph chemiluminescence mass spectroscopy ion trap mobility spectroscopy thermo redox and the like. Examples of pre concentrators that may be employed are described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 085 601 and RE38 797 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference. The air passing through the filters and analyzer may continue through the integrated screener past fan and out outlet

One or more filters may be used to achieve the desired samples. For example multiple foams and or other filters may be stacked to provide the desired capture of particles. Where multiple foams are used the pore size may be the same or different for the various foams used. The size shape material configuration and or pore size of the metal foam may be selected to provide the desired functionality. An example of a selected configuration may be a metal foam with a 300 micron nominal pore size and a nominal thickness of about 1 mm.

As shown the integrated screener may be integrated into a housing and or for performing a combination of screening functions such as the collection sampling detection and or analysis of material on the object. Preferably components positioned in housing and or b are capable of performing integrated screening functions such as more than one of sampling collecting detecting analyzing. Preferably the housing and or b provides a portable unit usable as or positionable in a desired screening system. The integrated functionality is intended to provide a portable system capable of performing multiple screening functions in a unitary entity. This integrated functionality may also be used to permit multiple functions to be performed in close proximity to each other and under similar environmental conditions for consistency.

The filter is positionable adjacent the housing and across inlet such that air passing into inlet passes through filter . The heater as depicted may be a resistance heater capable of heating the filter sufficient to desorb the vapor and particles therefrom. The resistance heater is preferably capable of resistively heating the filter by passing and electric current therethrough. While a conventional electrical resistance heater is depicted any type of heating source may be used. The resistance heater is depicted as having an outlet Ilia therethrough. Air passing from inlet and through filter exits through outlet Ilia.

The heater may be for example electrodes positioned in a cavity in the housing . The electrodes are preferably copper for providing electrical resistance connections to the filter . The filter may be resistably heated by the electrodes by passing an electric current therethrough. Bolts are preferably electrical connectors used to operatively e.g. mechanically and electrically connect electrodes to a power supply such as power supply of . Fasteners such as set screws are preferably positionable in holes in the housing for retaining filter therein.

The integrated screeners of and A C may be provided with the analyzer . The analyzer may be incorporated into and or connected to the housing for receiving the desorbed vapor and particles from the filter for analysis. Preferably the housings provide an integrated housing for containing multiple screening functions such as those described with respect to .

The metal foam is provided with a plurality of edges . To prevent compression of the edges and or loss of uniformity of the metal conductivity that may be caused by conventional cutting the edges are preferably cut using for example electrical discharge machining EDM . EDM or spark machining involves the removal or cutting of material by discharging current between electrodes with a dielectric charged liquid therebetween. While conventional cutting may be used in some cases such cutting may crush melt or fuse the cut edges of foam .

As shown the foam is a permeable solid foam having a plurality of inter connected pores in an open cellular structure. The foam forms a three dimensional net like structure that is preferably capable of capturing various forms of material such as both particles and vapor suspended in the air passing through the integrated screener . One or more metal foams made in thin sheets with very high porosity and surface areas are preferably used. Preferably the metal foams employed have higher surface area and low pressure losses compared with other filters of the same thickness.

Metallic solid foams such as pure metals e.g. aluminum copper nickel gold silver metal alloys stainless steel e.g. SUS316L SUS301S nickel alloys e.g. heat resistant nickel chrome tungsten molybdenum alloy nickel chrome ferric alloy corrosion resistant alloys nickel chrome molybdenum alloy may be employed. The metal foam used may be for example metal foams commercially available from MITSUBISHI MATERIALS CORPORATION of Tokyo Japan see e.g. http www.mmc.co.jp alloy english products happou index.htmn. The metal foam may comprise alloys such as nickel chrome tungsten molybdenum ferric or other metal s . Examples of metal foam alloys that may be employed are MA23 nickel chrome tungsten molybdenum alloy and MA600 nickel chrome ferric alloy from MITSUBISHI MATERIALS CORPORATION . Another filter that may be employed is a stainless steel 40 BL3 metal felt available from BEKAERT CORPORATION of Marietta Ga. available at http www.bekaert.com . Non metallic solid foam such as carbon nanofoam or organic polymers e.g. areogels silica carbon alumina zirconia may also be employed. The selected material is preferably chosen for operability in the integrated systems and or for its capability of capturing effective samples of material preferably both particle and vapor.

The metal foam and or filter may be selected to achieve a desired performance. Tables 1 and 2 show examples of filtering properties such as the relative vapor collection efficiency in the detection of an explosive TNT passed through a metal foam and a reference material. In the examples provided Table 1 shows a comparison of a first metal foam MA23 nickel chrome tungsten molybdenum alloy commercially available from MITSUBISHI MATERIALS CORPORATION with a metal filter stainless steel 40 BL3 metal felt commercially available from BEKAERT CORPORATION . Table 2 shows a comparison of a second metal foam MA600 nickel chrome ferric alloy commercially available from MITSUBISHI MATERIALS CORPORATION with the same metal filter stainless steel 40 BL3 metal . Each of the metal foams has about a 300 micron nominal pore size and a nominal thickness of about 1 mm. Each table quantifies the recovery of the target material TNT collected by the filter from air passing through the filter at a given flow rate.

As shown in the tables above the MA600 metal foam collected 72 more TNT than the 40BL3 metal felt and the MA23 metal foam collected 50 more TNT than the 40BL3 metal felt

The selected filter employed may be selected based on the ability of the fiber to recover a greater amount of the target material TNT that is passed therethrough. In this case MA600 may be selected as a desired foam for use in the screeners in order to detect trace amounts of particles on objects e.g. of . Other performance factors such as cost size ease of use durability etc. may also be considered.

While specific configurations of the systems screening portal screening wand and integrated screeners are provided it will be appreciated that various combinations of these devices as shown may be used. For example the integrated screener may be incorporated into screening wand and the integrated screener may be used with screening portal . Also these devices may be used in combination with each other and or other screening devices.

Additional steps may optionally be performed. For example the analyzed sample may be processed by computationally processing information obtained by the step of analyzing data collected communication with an external source performed and commands generated based on information related to the analyzed sample. The process may be repeated as desired. Preferably the collection desorption and analysis of the samples from the object are performed in a single integrated operation. An integrated device such as screener may be provided for performing multiple integrated functions in a single operation and or with a single device.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. For example the apparatus may be of other shapes to facilitate flow of air about the object or alarms or other devices may be provided.

This description is intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of this invention should be determined only by the language of the claims that follow. The term comprising within the claims is intended to mean including at least such that the recited listing of elements in a claim are an open group. A an and other singular terms are intended to include the plural forms thereof unless specifically excluded.

