---

title: In-situ plasma/laser hybrid scheme
abstract: A method and apparatus for forming layers on a target. The apparatus and method employ a direct current plasma apparatus to form at least one layer using a plasma jet containing precursors. In some embodiments, the direct current plasma apparatus utilizes axial injection of the precursors through the cathode (in an upstream and/or downstream configuration) and/or downstream of the anode. In some embodiments, the direct current plasma apparatus can comprise a laser source for remelting the layer using a laser beam to achieve in-situ densification thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08294060&OS=08294060&RS=08294060
owner: The Regents of The University of Michigan
number: 08294060
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100503
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 174 576 filed on May 1 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 233 863 filed on Aug. 14 2009. The entire disclosures of each of the above applications are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. N00244 07 P 0553 awarded by the U.S. Navy. The government has certain rights in the invention

The present disclosure relates to direct current DC plasma processing and more particularly relates to a modified direct current plasma apparatus and methods for improved coating results using direct current plasma processing.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art. This section provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

In plasma spray processing the material to be deposited also known as feedstock typically as a powder a liquid a liquid suspension or the like is introduced into a plasma jet emanating from a plasma torch or gun. In the jet where the temperature is on the order of 10 000 K the material is melted and propelled towards a substrate. There the molten semi molten droplets flatten rapidly solidify and form a deposit and if sufficient in number a final layer. Commonly the deposits remain adherent to the substrate as coatings although free standing parts can also be produced by removing the substrate. Direct current DC plasma processing and coating is often used in many industrial technology applications.

With particular reference to a schematic of a conventional apparatus for conducting direct current plasma processing as well as a photograph of the apparatus in operation are provided. A conventional direct current plasma apparatus generally comprises a housing having a cathode which is negatively charged and an anode which is positively charged . A plasma gas is introduced along an annular pathway to a position downstream of cathode and generally adjacent anode . An electrical arc is established and it extends from the cathode to the anode and generates the plasma gas to form a hot gas jet . Generally this electrical arc rotates on the annular surface of the anode to distribute the heat load. A precursor such as in the form of a powder or a liquid is fed from a position downstream of anode and external to the plasma jet into the jet boundary. This process is generally referred to as radial injection. The powders solid and or droplets liquid within the precursor are typically entrained into the plasma jet and travel with it eventually melting impacting and being deposited on a desired target. The powders are typically presynthesized by another process into a predetermined chemistry and solidified form and are typically sized on the order of microns.

Generally the liquid droplets are typically of two types namely a first type where the liquid droplets contain very fine powders or particles which are presynthesized by another process into solid form being of submicron or nanometer size suspended in a liquid carrier and a second type where liquid droplets contain a chemical dissolved in a solvent wherein the chemical eventually forms the final desired coating material.

In the first type during deposition the liquid droplets are entrained in the plasma jet causing the liquid carrier to evaporate and the fine particles to melt. The entrained melted particles then impact on a target thereby forming the coating. This approach is also known as suspension approach .

In the second type as droplets travel in the plasma jet a chemical reaction takes place along with the evaporation of the liquid solvent to form the desired solid particles which again melt and upon impact on the target form the coating. This approach is known as solution approach .

Generally speaking the solid powder injection approach is used to form microcrystalline coatings and both of the liquid approaches are used to form nanostructured coatings.

However direct current plasma processing suffers from a number of disadvantages. For example because of the radial injection method used in DC plasma processing the precursor materials are typically exposed to different temperature history or profiles as they travel with the plasma jet. The core of the plasma jet is hotter than the outer boundaries or periphery of the plasma jet such that the particles that get dragged into the center of the jet experience the maximum temperature. Similarly the particles that travel along the periphery experience the lowest temperature. As seen in a simulation of this phenomenon is illustrated. Specifically the darker particles are cooler as illustrated by the gray scale and travel generally along the top portion of the exemplary spray pattern in the figure. The lighter particles are hotter again as illustrated by the gray scale and travel generally along the bottom portion of the exemplary spray pattern in the figure. This temperature non uniformity of powder or droplets affects the coating quality negatively. This variation is especially disadvantageous in liquid based techniques which are typically used for nanomaterial synthesis.

Additionally due to the radial injection orientation see the entrained particles typically achieve a lower velocity due to the need to change direction within the jet from a radial direction during introduction in the Y axis to an axial direction during entrainment in the X axis and the associated inertias. This negatively affects the coating density and the deposition efficiency i.e. amount of material injected compared to the amount that adheres to the target . Particularly this is important for nanoparticle deposition as they need to achieve a critical velocity to impact upon the target forming the coating lack of which would cause them to follow the gas jet and escape the target.

Further the interaction time of the particle related to the amount of heat that can be absorbed by the particle with the jet is shorter due to external injection and thus very high melting point materials that must achieve a higher temperature before becoming molten can not be melted by external injection due to the reduced residence time in the jet . Similarly in the case of liquid precursors lack of appropriate heating leads to unconverted unmelted material resulting in undesirable coating structures as illustrated in .

Furthermore the coatings typically achieved with conventional direct current plasma processing suffer from additional disadvantages in that as individual molten or semi molten particles impact a target they often retain their boundaries in the solidified structure as illustrated in . That is as each particle impacts and is deposited upon a target it forms a singular mass. As a plurality of particles are sequentially deposited on the target each individual mass stacks upon the others thereby forming a collective mass having columnar grains and lamellar pores disposed along grain boundaries. These boundary characteristics and regions often lead to problems in the resultant coating and a suboptimal layer. These compromised coatings are particularly undesired in biomedical optical and electrical applications i.e. solar and fuel cell electrolytes .

Therefore a need exists in the art for reliable ways to inject precursor material either solid powder or liquid droplet or gaseous axially within a jet i.e in the same direction of the jet to achieve improved coating results.

Accordingly the present teachings provide a system for axial injection of a precursor in a modified direct current plasma apparatus. According to the principles of the present teachings precursor can be injected through the cathode and or through an axial injector sitting in front of the anode rather than radially injected as described in the prior art. The principles of these teachings have permitted formulation and the associated achievement of certain characteristics that have application in a wide variety of industries and products such as battery manufacturing solar cells fuel cells and many other areas.

Still further according to the principles of the present teachings in some embodiments the modified direct current plasma apparatus can comprise a laser beam to provide an in situ hybrid apparatus capable of producing a plurality of coating types. These in situ modified coatings have particular utility in a wide variety of applications such as optical electrical solar biomedical and fuel cells. Additionally according to the principles of the present teachings the in situ hybrid apparatus can fabricate free standing objects comprising different materials such as optical lenses made using complex optical compounds and their combinations.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

According to the principles of the present teachings improved methods of applying a coating to a target using a modified direct current plasma apparatus and method are provided having a wide variety of advantages. In some embodiments precursor can be injected through the cathode see and or through an axial injector in front of the anode see rather than radially injected as described in the prior art. The principles of the present teachings have permitted formulation and the associated achievement of certain characteristics that have application in a wide variety of industries and products such as battery manufacturing solar cells fuel cells and many other areas.

Still further according to the principles of the present teachings in some embodiments as illustrated in the modified direct current plasma system can comprise a laser system to provide an in situ hybrid apparatus capable of producing a plurality of coating types as illustrating in . These coating have particular utility in a wide variety of applications such as solar biomedical and fuel cells.

With reference to a modified direct current plasma apparatus is illustrated according to the principle of the present teachings. In some embodiments modified direct current plasma apparatus generally comprises a housing having a cathode which is negatively charged extending there through and an anode which is positively charged proximally disposed relative to cathode for electrical communication therewith. An annular channel extends about cathode and generally between cathode and anode . Annular channel fluidly communicates a plasma gas as a gaseous inflow from a source not shown to a position at least adjacent a tip of cathode . An electrical arc is established and extends between cathode and anode in a conventional manner. The electrical arc ionizes plasma gas to define a plasma jet downstream of cathode . A precursor material having a composition of desired particles and or other material is introduced into at least one of plasma gas and or plasma jet as will be discussed in detail herein. In some embodiments precursor material can be introduced into plasma gas and or plasma jet from a position generally axially aligned with cathode . The powders solid or droplets liquid or gases within precursor are then entrained into the hot plasmas jet and travel with it eventually forming the desired material melting and being deposited on a desired target. In some embodiments precursor can comprise a plurality of nanoparticles. In some embodiments precursor can be a powder of micrometer sized particles of different compounds a solution of multiple chemicals a suspension of micrometer or nanometer sized particles of different compounds in a matrix or a suspension of micrometer or nanometer sized particles within a matrix of solution of multiple chemicals or a gaseous mixture. When treated in the plasma jet the precursor results into the desired material.

According to some embodiments of the present teachings it has been found that axial injection of precursor into plasma gas upstream of a tip of cathode can significantly improve the coating achieved following a modified DC plasma process.

Briefly by way of background several systems have previously attempted to achieve this axial injection using a plurality of precursor outlets disposed in the cathode. However no commercial system exists that employs this approach primarily because directly feeding a precursor through the cathode typically limits the life of the cathode. That is as seen in a typical plasma arc is illustrated originating from a tip of a solid cathode . When a precursor outlet is made in cathode the arc root generally indicated at moves to the periphery of the precursor outlet as seen in which increases the localized temperature about the precursor outlet . This increased localized temperature cause precursor flowing from the precursor outlet to immediately interact with hot outlet causing the particles or droplets within the precursor to melt and immediately collect at the rim of the precursor outlet . Accelerated deposition of the particles or droplets at the precursor outlet leads to premature clogging of the precursor outlet and reduced operational life of the cathode .

To overcome this problem in some embodiments as illustrated in the present teachings provide a cathode having a plurality of precursor outlet lines radially extending outwardly from a central line extending axially along cathode . Each of the plurality of precursor outlet lines terminated at an exposed opening along a tapered sidewall portion of cathode . The exposed openings are disposed at a location upstream a distance a from the arc root . In this way the arc root being sufficiently downstream of openings is not disturbed nor drawn to openings thereby maintaining a suitable localized temperature at openings to prevent premature heating melting and deposition of particles or droplets contained in the precursor at or near openings . Generally it has been found that positioning openings upstream of the arc root permits one to obtain the benefits of the present teachings. This arrangement has been found to be particularly well suited for use with gaseous precursors however utility can be found herein in connection with a wide variety of precursor types and materials.

Cathode having the radially extending precursor outlet lines ensures atomization of the liquid precursor stream. The perforated design further ensured stable gun voltage as well as improved cathode life. Further because of the efficiency of delivering precursor upstream of arc root smaller nano sized particles contained in precursor are more likely to be properly entrained in the flow of plasma gas and thus are less likely to become deposited on cathode or anode . Accordingly smaller particles can be reliably and effectively synthesized treated and deposited on a target without negatively affecting the useful life of cathode .

However in some embodiments as illustrated in the present teachings provide a cathode having a centrally disposed precursor line extending axially along cathode and terminating at an exposed opening . Precursor line receives and carries the precursor to exposed opening . To this end it is desirable that precursor line is electrically insulated from cathode . Exposed opening extends sufficiently downstream a distance b of a tip of cathode to generally inhibit deposition of particles or droplets contained in the precursor at or near exposed opening . As a result of the extended position of exposed opening relative to cathode tip the subsequent heating and melting of the particles or droplets in the precursor occurs at a position downstream of both cathode tip and exposed opening thereby prevent deposition of the melted particles on cathode . This arrangement has been found to be particularly useful for the successful melting and deposition of high melting point materials such as TaC melting point 4300 C. using 20 kW power. Such achievement has not previously been possible prior to the introduction of the present teachings. An SEM image of deposit TaC coating is illustrated in . Further in some embodiment of the present teachings a liquid atomizer is utilized at opening to achieve a desired size of droplets that is introduced to the plasma. This attribute enables better control on the particle size that is synthesized from a liquid precursor.

Furthermore according to the principles of the present teachings precursor one and precursor two can independently be fed enabling functionally gradient coating deposition. The particle size phase and density control as well as the efficiency can thus be substantially improved by this axial feeding of the liquid precursor. Using this approach various nanomaterials such as HAP TiO2 composite Nb TaC composite YSZ and V2O5 have been successfully synthesized for high temperature energy and biomedical applications.

In some embodiments of the present teachings direct current plasma apparatus can comprise injection of a liquid based precursor downstream of anode . Specifically using this approach liquid precursor can be efficiently atomized into droplets inside direct current plasma apparatus . This capability has enabled the synthesis of many nanostructured materials resulting in improvements in terms of process control and coating quality.

In this way as illustrated in direct current plasma apparatus can comprise an axial atomizer assembly having a liquid precursor input and a gas input collectively joined to introduce liquid droplets of precursor at a position downstream of anode and upstream of a water cooled nozzle . illustrates the subcomponents of the atomizer assembly . In some embodiments it can comprise precursor input gas input See an atomizer housing an atomizing body an atomizer cap water cooling input and two plasma paths . and illustrate cross sectional views of the atomizer assembly. shows the cross section of the atomizing body consisting of precursor input and gas inputs and a droplet outlet . Different embodiments of the atomizing body and are shown in through . Atomized precursor droplets undergo secondary atomization by the plasma jet emerging through plasma paths resulting in fine droplets for material synthesis and deposition on a substrate or target. In some embodiments of the apparatus the precursor can be simply gaseous in nature.

In some embodiment of the present teachings the exit nozzle comprises of plasma inlet plasma outlet and gaseous precursor inputs . The gaseous precursor input can introduce gases such as acetylene to coat or dope the molten particles with a desired material prior to deposition. This particular approach is beneficial to battery manufacturing where carbon doping is required for enhancing the conductivity. The plasma outlet can assume different cross sectional profiles such as cylindrical elliptical and rectangular. and illustrate the side and front views of a cylindrical nozzle. and illustrate the views of rectangular profile. Such renditions are beneficial to control the particle size distribution in the atomized droplets to enhance their synthesis characteristics.

This design ensured the entrainment of all the liquid droplets in the plasma jet leading to higher deposition efficiency and uniform particulate characteristics. Further this design also enables embedment of nanoparticles into a bulk matrix resulting in a composite coating. The matrix material and the liquid precursor are independently fed enabling functionally gradient coating deposition. Using this approach various nanomaterials such as TiO2 YSZ V2O5 LiFePO4 LiCoO2 LiCoNiMnO6 Eu doped SrAl2O4 Dy doped SrAl2O4 CdSe CdS ZnO InO2 and InSnO2 have been successfully synthesized for high temperature energy and biomedical applications.

Typical plasma coatings made using powder or liquid precursors have a particulate structure as illustrated in . The inter particulate boundaries contain impurities and voids which are detrimental to properties of these coatings. Researchers have attempted to use a laser beam to remelt and densify coatings following complete deposition and formation of the article. However a laser beam has a limited penetration depth and thus thick coatings cannot be adequately treated. Moreover post deposition treatment typically leads to defects and cracks especially in ceramic materials as shown in .

However according to the principles of the present teachings direct current plasma apparatus as illustrated in is provided with a laser beam that is capable of treating the coating layer by layer nearly simultaneously as the layers are deposited by plasma jet on the substrate. That is laser radiation energy output from a laser source can be directed to coating deposited on a substrate using the methods set forth herein. In this regard each thinly deposited layer on a substrate can be immediately modified tailored or otherwise processed by the laser source in a simple and simultaneous manner. Specifically laser source is disposed adjacent or integrally formed with modified direct current plasma source to output laser radiation energy upon the substrate being processed. In some embodiment of the present teachings the laser beam can assume either a Gaussian energy distribution or rectangular multimode energy distribution illustrated in and . Further the laser beam can be delivered via an optical fiber or an optical train or their combinations. In some embodiment of the present teachings multiple laser beams with same or dissimilar characteristics wave length beam diameter or energy density can be utilized to perform pretreatment or post treatment of the aforementioned coatings.

This has considerable advantages including specifically that less laser energy is needed as the treatment is done while the plasma coating is hot and thin. Most importantly brittle materials like ceramics can be fused into thick monolithic coatings see such as produced by PVD and CVD process commonly used for electrical and optical applications . Moreover the growth rate in this process is m sec where as the growth rate of PVD and CVD coatings is nm min. In fact specifically designed coatings such as illustrated in can easily be achieved.

According to the principles of the present teachings the direct current plasma apparatus specifically having laser source can be effectively used for the creation of solid oxide fuel cells. In this way the anode electrolyte and the cathode layers are deposited by the direct current plasma apparatus using either solid precursor powders liquid precursors gaseous precursors or a combination thereof. In situ densification of the layers is achieved with the laser source by remelting the plasma deposited material especially in the electrolyte layer. By carefully varying the laser beam wavelength and power one can grade the density i.e. define a gradient across the electrolyte and its interfaces to enhance thermal shock resistance. In some embodiments direct current plasma apparatus can further comprise the teachings set forth herein relating to cathode and anode variations.

The principles of the present disclosure are particularly useful in a wide variety of application and industries which by way of non limiting example are set forth below.

As illustrated in Li ion battery cells typically comprise an anode and a cathode for battery operation. Different materials are being tested for both cathode and anode in the industry. In general these materials are complex compounds need to have good conductivity carbon coated particulates and should be made of nanoparticulates for maximized performance. Accordingly the industrial battery manufacturing techniques of the present teachings comprise a multi step material synthesis and electrode assembly process. In our approach we employ the plasma and laser technology developed above to directly synthesize the electrodes reducing the number of steps time and cost.

There are many material chemistries being explored such as LiFePO4 LiCoO2 and Li NixCo1 2xMnx O2. According to the principles of the present teachings liquid precursors solutions and suspensions in solutions are introduced using direct current plasma system to synthesize the desired material chemistry and structure and directly form the cathodic film in a unique manner. The process is generally set forth in wherein processing steps in the prior art are eliminated. Furthermore it should be appreciated that laser source can be employed to densify or further treat the layers or film if desired.

Direct achievement of the cathodic film from solution precursors using plasma beam as described here has never been achieved in the prior art. The direct synthesis approach gives the ability to adjust the chemistry of the compound in situ. These teachings are not limited to the above mentioned compounds and can be employed to many other material systems.

In some embodiment of the present teachings one can also manufacture nanoengineered electrode compounds in powder form to be used in the current industrial processes. Further in some embodiment of the current teachings one can also achieve thermal treatment of these powders in flight using the direct current plasma apparatus .

As is generally known silicon in nano particulate form or ultrafine pillar form as shown in is a good anode material. This material can be formed in the shape of pillars through various processes. Specifically such pillars can be formed by treating a silicon wafer using a laser. However using a silicon wafer to manufacture an anode is not a cost effective approach.

However the ability to deposit silicon coating by direct current plasma apparatus on a metal conductor and subsequent treatment using laser source to make nanostructured surfaces permits large area anodes to be produced in a simple and cost effective manner. In some embodiment of these current teachings one can use the modified direct current plasma apparatus to deposit silicon coatings and a catalyst layer to achieve nanostructured surfaces by subsequent thermal treatment. In fact following this approach many other compounds such as transition metal compounds can be formed which have wide ranging applications such as sensors reactors and the like.

In some embodiment of these teachings a gaseous precursor containing silicon can be used to deposit nanoparticles onto a desired target to manufacture nanoparticulate based electrodes. Further these nanoparticulates can be coated with carbon using appropriate gaseous precursors such as acetylene using the nozzle input .

Achieving a viable product for harnessing solar energy requires a balancing between creating efficient cells and at the same time reducing the manufacturing cost. While conventional polycrystalline cells are efficient thin film amorphous solar cells have proven to be cost effective on the basis of overall price per watt. Polycrystalline cells are made by ingot casting and slicing the wafers. Amorphous thin film cells are made with chemical Vapor Deposition process.

However according to the principles of the present teachings a unique process using direct current plasma apparatus is provided that uses benign precursors powders Si liquids ZnCl InCland SnCl and gaseous Silane precursors to achieve polycrystalline efficiency at thin film manufacturing cost. The proposed cells consist of multi junction Si films with efficient back reflector and enhanced surface absorber see . All the layers are deposited using direct current plasma apparatus and microstructurally engineered using laser beam .

The principles of the present teachings are capable of achieving wafer grade efficiency at thin film manufacturing cost. Moreover the plasma deposition process deposition rate m sec of the present teachings is much faster than thin film deposition PECVD deposition rate nm min processes. However the inherent inter droplet boundaries of conventional plasma sprayed deposits make them unsuitable for photovoltaic applications. By processing the deposited layer with laser source wafer grade crystallinity can be achieved at a rapid rate. At the same time the deposition process of the present teachings retains many of the attractive features of thin film technology i.e. multi junction capability see and low manufacturing cost. Furthermore according to the present teachings in situ cell surface patterning using laser source can enhance light absorption see which could not previously be achieved using other techniques such as etching. Furthermore according to these current teachings a multi junction crystalline solar cell can be achieved which was not possible by the prior art of ingot casting.

Step 1 An oxide SnO2 InSnO2 or ZnO coating is deposited on Al or conductive plate bottom electrode . This layer serves as the reflective as well as conductive layer and is obtained directly from powder or liquid precursor nanoscale using direct current plasma apparatus . The microstructure is laser treated to optimize reflectivity as well as conductivity.

Step 2 Using suitable precursors separate n type i type and p type doped semiconducting Si thin films are deposited on the oxide coating. The coating microstructure is optimized by the laser for maximum current output. Further the surface of the p type layer can be engineered by the laser source to maximize the surface area for light trapping.

Step 3 An oxide ZnO2 or InSnO2 coating is deposited on the p layer. This layer serves as the transparent as well as the conductive layer and is obtained directly from powder or liquid precursor as in Step 1. The microstructure is laser treated to enhance transparency as well as conductivity.

Step 4 Finally the top electrode is deposited by plasma using powder precursor of a conductive metal. The entire process is carried out in an inert low pressure environment in a sequential manner. Thus large area cells with high efficiency can be manufactured cost effectively.

Solid Oxide Fuel Cell SOFC manufacturing presents significant challenges due to the requirement of differential densities in the successive layers as well as thermal shock resistance. The anode and cathode layer of the SOFC need to be porous while the electrolyte layer needs to reach full density see . Typically SOFCs are produced using wet ceramic techniques and subsequent lengthy sintering processes. Alternatively plasma spray deposition is also used to deposit the anode electrolyte and the cathode followed by sintering for densification. While sintering reduces the porosity level in the electrolyte it also leads to unwanted densification of the cathode and anode layer.

According to the principles of the present teachings the direct current plasma apparatus using laser source can provide unique advantage to engineer the microstructure as needed As described herein each layer of the SOFC can be deposited and custom tailored using laser source to achieve a desired densification. Further one can also use precursors in the form suspended particles of YSZ in a solution consisting of chemicals which when plasma pyrolized form nanoparticles of YSZ. Such a methodology can improve the deposition rate considerably in comparison to deposition using precursors comprised of suspended YSZ particles in a carrier liquid. Such coatings have a wide variety of applications in the aerospace and medical industries.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the invention.

