---

title: Consumer rewards systems and methods
abstract: A method comprising, in combination: receiving a unique identifier from a consumer; receiving a list of at least one item to be purchased corresponding to a pending transaction; identifying a consumer account associated with the unique identifier; applying at least one accrued point of the consumer account to determine a redemption possibility; and providing a redemption possibility to the consumer. A system comprising, in combination: a point-of-sale (POS) device, further comprising a reader configured to receive a unique identifier and a display configured for providing information to at least one of a merchant and a consumer; an account management system, further comprising an account database containing information regarding at least one consumer account; wherein the POS device and the account management system are communicatively connected to transmit at least one of a unique identifier and a redemption possibility.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08387858&OS=08387858&RS=08387858
owner: Synderesis Technologies, Inc.
number: 08387858
owner_city: Gainesville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100518
---
This application claims the Paris Convention Priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 182 876 filed on Jun. 1 2009 and entitled Consumer Rewards Systems and Methods the contents of which are incorporated in this application.

This disclosure relates to membership in rewards and incentives programs for merchants and consumers as well as systems and methods for facilitating interactions between merchants and consumers.

The service disclosed herein allows consumers a single place to manage all of their merchant reward card and loyalty programs accounts. Through the use of unique identification via phone number e mail address program specific identification number or near field communication devices merchants can keep track of their consumer base and implement reward card or loyalty programs with ease. The system allows merchants to target their consumers via a web interface and keep them up to date with service specials promotions and progress toward rewards. The system also provides tailored reports to merchants on their consumer base coupled with spending trend data reporting available through unique consumer identification. The system targets the ripe retail merchant and consumer bases for widespread usage and compatibility with other consumer identity based programs such as subway and train fare vending machines and various other retail outlets.

According to aspects of this disclosure a method is disclosed comprising receiving from a merchant via a point of a sale POS capture device a total transaction data set for a transaction receiving a consumer s unique identifier and a merchant identifier from the POS capture device as part of a total transaction data set and adjusting a points balance for the merchant in the consumer s account hosted on the remote server based on the transaction data. The consumer s account aggregates points for a plurality of disparate merchants the points balance for at least one merchant being exclusive from the points balance of at least one other merchant.

According to aspects of this disclosure a system is disclosed comprising in combination a point of sale capture device comprising at least 1 a unique identifier reader configured to receive a unique identifier 2 a display configured for providing information to at least one of a merchant and a consumer and 3 a POS computer and a remote server comprising a database containing information regarding at least one consumer account and transaction data for a plurality of transactions a server for facilitating communication between the POS capture device and the remote server. The remote server comprises a plurality of consumer accounts wherein at least one consumer account comprises a points balance for a plurality of disparate merchants the points balance for at least one merchant being exclusive from the points balance of at least one other merchant.

According to aspects of this disclosure a machine readable medium containing instructions stored thereon for with a remote server receiving from a merchant via a point of sale POS capture device a total transaction data set for a transaction receiving a consumer s unique identifier and a merchant identifier from the POS capture device as part of a total transaction data set and adjusting a points balance for the merchant in the consumer s account hosted on the remote server based on the transaction data. The consumer s account aggregates points for a plurality of disparate merchants the points balance for at least one merchant being exclusive from the points balance of at least one other merchant.

In the following detailed description of embodiments of the present disclosure reference is made to the accompanying drawings in which like references indicate similar elements and in which is shown by way of illustration specific embodiments in which the present disclosure may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the present disclosure and it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and that logical mechanical electrical functional and other changes may be made without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present disclosure is defined only by the appended claims. As used in the present disclosure the term or shall be understood to be defined as a logical disjunction and shall not indicate an exclusive disjunction unless expressly indicated as such or notated as xor. 

As used herein the term demographic shall mean a statistic of an entity including persons and business entities related to vital statistics physical locations geography population size population density and other data that is useful for analyzing behavior related to transactions.

As used herein the term transaction shall mean the exchange of a good or service between at least one entity providing the good or service and another entity in exchange for remuneration from the other entity or a third entity. The term transaction expressly encompasses as individual transactions incremental steps in a complete transaction. For example a consumer may purchase a meal at a hotel and charging it back to a room thus at the time the meal transaction is complete no remuneration for the meal is provided although a merchant may wish to capture transaction data for the meal as part of an incremental part of the larger transaction i.e. settling the entire hotel bill . The term transaction shall also expressly contemplate third parties providing the remuneration for the consumer.

As used herein the term consumer shall mean an entity providing remuneration to a merchant for a good or service.

As used herein the term merchant shall mean an entity providing a good or service to a consumer for remuneration. Merchants encompass entities providing the good at the point of sale distributors of the good or service merchants of the good or service or manufacturers of the good or service.

As used herein the term point of sale or POS shall mean the physical or internet location where a transaction is captured or conducted. With respect to an internet location the POS shall be considered as the website on which the transaction occurs.

As used herein the term entity shall mean a person or a business or other unit or organization capable of entering into a transaction.

As used herein the term point shall mean a credit for reward s offered by merchants. Accordingly points comprise airline miles to grocery store points unit purchase credits e.g. buy 10 of product X and get the next X free etc.

As used herein the term reward shall mean a good service incentive or discount provided in exchange for the redemption of points or use of the points and data capture system.

The inventors developed a points management and data capture system. The system relates to membership rewards programs as well as new mediums and opportunities for merchants to effectively offer targeted advertising and promotions to specific consumer bases based on demographic information related to consumers and the products they purchase.

Accordingly the inventors invented devices systems and methods for the management of point accounts via the capture of transaction data and the association of the transaction data with consumer demographics data in the transaction. According to embodiments at the point of sale POS both transaction data and a unique identifier associated with the consumer are captured collected . This information is associated together and stored in a database. The database system maintains this data for later analysis or use.

Additionally for the transaction points may be awarded by meeting certain criteria determined by the merchant. The points accrued are collected in the consumer s account that is hosted on a remote server having a database according to embodiments. Similarly rewards may be offered to the consumer at the point of sale if enough points have been accrued. The system maintains all of the merchant point accounts for each consumer providing centralized management of points accounts and consolidating multiple points memberships accounts with different merchants into a single card or identifier that is used for every merchant visited by the consumer.

According to embodiments a points and data capture system comprises a point of sale capture device and a remote server that houses a server and a database for storing captured total transaction data maintaining merchant and consumer accounts and crediting points and managing rewards. Internet connected computer terminals for logging into and review account details are considered to be an optional part of the points and data capture system according to some embodiments although under the control of the merchant or consumer respectively.

According to embodiments and as illustrated in consumer account is stored managed and tracked in database hosted on server see . As illustrated in consumer account comprises consumer profile . Consumer profile comprises demographic and account settings information provided by the consumer about himself or herself. For example consumer profile includes the consumer s contact information website preferences and other demographic information including for example age occupation children or other information relating to the identity hobbies interests etc. of the consumer

As further illustrated according to the exemplary embodiment illustrated in consumer account further comprises information relating to at least one merchant account A B N. For example the number of points accrued by the consumer for a given merchant is stored in consumer account according to embodiments. Moreover for each merchant account merchant account specific preferences are selected by the consumer with respect to the given merchant. For example some airlines permit a consumer to request which airline in a consortium of airline the user wants to accrue points. In such a case the consumer would select the airline rewards program in which to accrue points in merchant specific preference . According to embodiments and as shown in information with respect to any number N of merchants may be associated with consumer account . Other merchant based preferences include whether a merchant or third parties affiliated with the merchant are permitted to contact the consumer merchant specific display preferences or reward preferences according to embodiments.

According to embodiments and as illustrated in for each merchant account purchase history is available to the consumer for that merchant. Likewise the consumer can access special offers coupons via consumer account . Consumer can also set preferences or redeem rewards as well.

According to embodiments and as illustrated in a consumer s account with points and data capture system . A plurality of consumer accounts A B N are shown. Each consumer account A B N is implemented on server according to embodiments and comprises a plurality of modules that allow the consumer to perform tasks. Front end login credential module provides the consumer with a portal to securely log into and out of the account as well as change login passwords. Individual settings module gives the consumer the ability to set individual settings for example default screen output resolution number of search results in a list etc. Such settings are well known and understood by artisans.

According to embodiments reports module allows the consumer to create and run various reports related to total transaction data contained in database for example. For example reports module would give the consumer access to reports about their spending history behaviors and categories of purchase s inter alia. Transaction histories module allows the consumer to review transaction histories based on criteria such as date store merchant etc. For example transaction histories module would give the consumer access to all transactions completed with all merchants or for a given merchant over a given time period in a category of purchases etc. According to embodiments each of these modules are condensed into a single database search module. However for the purposes of illustration of the types of data that would be available in an exemplary consumer account A B N of points and data capture system they are presented herein as individual modules. Other modules are likewise expressly contemplated depending on the specific transaction data captured per each implementation of points and data capture system .

According to embodiments each consumer account A B N comprises analysis tools module . Analysis tools module provides tools for analyzing various data. For example analysis tools module allows the consumer to look at spending trends purchase savings and could help the consumer budget make grocery lists manage warranties or rebates and many other functions.

Each consumer account A B N also includes a consumer demographics module that solicits the consumer s demographics. For example demographics module causes the consumer to input an address a birthday family size income vocation hobbies interests or other personal data related to the consumer and the consumer s interests. According to embodiments these data are stored in database and can be concatenated with each total transaction data set to augment the data generated at the POS and give merchants and consumers more powerful data analysis tools. According to embodiments consumer demographics also includes a picture of the consumer to be attached. The picture can be used to disambiguate the consumer during the capture process as described below or is used to verify the account on the part of the merchant. Accordingly the picture would be shown to the merchant at the time of the transaction thereby allowing the merchant to verify the identity of or disambiguate the consumer.

According to embodiments each consumer account A B N comprise points balance module rewards module or warranty module . According to embodiments points balance module is a module that allows the consumer to review points earned on a per merchant basis. For example the consumer may want to see the number of points earned from purchases with ACME and ABC company. Using point module consumer could review the points balance for his purchases with each of these merchants respectively.

According to embodiments rewards module allows the consumer to redeem points for rewards or in some cases print rewards coupons etc. According to embodiments rewards module allows the consumer to electronically apply coupons to the account such that the coupons are redeemed when the customer is identified with the merchant. Using rewards module lets the consumer review progress towards rewards select rewards redeem points for rewards or claim rewards that can be printed ordered from the consumer s computer. According to embodiments rewards promotions may be pushed to the consumer from a merchant via rewards module. For example a merchant will notify consumer of a buy one get one free promotion at their store and allow the consumer to print a buy one get one free coupon to take advantage of the promotion. According to still other embodiments rewards are offered by the merchant at the point of sale if sufficient points for a reward have been accrued. Accordingly all rewards can be handled by POS capture device i.e. electronically whereby the rewards discounts coupons etc. are offered to the merchant or consumer via POS capture device or via cell phone or other devices in data communication with points and data capture system at the point of sale.

Likewise consumer account according to embodiments provides a central source for the management for the warranties of products purchased by a consumer. According to embodiments when a consumer purchases a product or service having a warranty a serial number for the product service or another identifier that uniquely identifies the good service is recorded with database of points and data capture system . According to still other embodiments these products services where applicable will automatically be registered with the source of the warranty for the good service thereby giving the consumer an added layer of protection in the event of defects with the product or the service provided. Use of warranty module lets the consumer review whether the warranty is still in force. According to some embodiments warranty module will allow the consumer to make warranty claims or provide connection to the warranty service provider. According to some embodiments points and data capture system offers to consumer extended warranties for certain goods services.

According to embodiments consumer accounts A B N are created by consumer via a personal computer. Account creation in this way is accomplished by a typical registration process with a computer connected to server . According to embodiments creates a username and password inputs demographic information inputs unique identifiers e.g. driver s license number email address cellular telephone numbers etc. and inputs information about points accounts with merchant s if known. According to embodiments where an RFID tag system is used as described below each consumer is mailed a card having an RFID tag or a keychain FOB with an RFID tag embedded therein.

According to other embodiments a merchant may facilitate a beginning of a creation of a new consumer account A B N. As part of the transaction process merchants subscribed with a points service may ask their consumers if they already have an account. If a consumer does not have an account the consumer may be asked for contact information such as a phone number or an e mail address to be contacted. The merchant may also request one or more unique identifier to include in the account creation process. Using this information the merchant creates a new consumer account with points and data capture system and enters the contact information into the system with the current points balance of the transaction. A text message phone call or e mail may be sent to the consumer with an activation code and instructions on how to validate the account. For example a temporary user name or password may be provided for the consumer to activate a new account or create a final account from a temporary account. Upon activating the new consumer account the consumer may change login details as well as provide demographic information such as gender birth date and other information as well as other unique identifiers for storage with points and database capture system .

According to embodiments where a merchant creates consumer account A B N a temporary account is created until the consumer finalizes the account for example by providing additional personal information. The temporary account accrues points or has other parameters automatically set based on default settings until final account A B N is created. At the time final account A B N is created parameters of the temporary account such as points accrued may be transferred to the final account. According to embodiments the use of a temporary account is effective for providing benefits to at least one of the consumer and the merchant until a final account is created or creating efficiencies where the consumer opts not to create the final account.

According to embodiments a merchant may facilitate the creation of new consumer account A B N with minimal consumer intervention. As a merchant is facilitating the creation of new consumer account A B N the consumer may provide a piece of personal information that may also act as a unique identifier such as any of the unique identifiers disclosed herein. For example an e mail address cellular telephone number or name is provided by the consumer and used as the unique identifier associated with the consumer account created by the merchant. Thereafter when the consumer creates a separate account and enters the unique identifier the unique identifier will cause the points balance for the merchant who created the account to transfer to the consumer s account newly created account.

According to embodiments a consumer may access points and data capture system directly via server to view retrieve and manage information contained in database regarding merchants with which the consumer is associated through a points program as illustrated in . As illustrated in consumer is able to access the points balance for each merchant A B N with whom the consumer has a points account. According to embodiments consumers view their progress toward their rewards as well as manage their communication with merchants via the interface with each merchant in each consumer account .

According to embodiments and as illustrated in a merchant accesses points and data capture system via server to view retrieve and manage information regarding consumers with which the merchant is associated through a points program as well as to view retrieve and manage other transaction statistics and analysis. According to embodiments merchants are provided with a framework from which they can track statistics regarding transactions with consumers. Furthermore merchants are able to manage their presence within the system via a communications interface such as the internet. According to embodiments merchants also manage settings related to the accrual of features to consumer accounts based on transactions between consumers and the merchant. For example a merchant may determine how points are accrued by consumers participating in the points program e.g. X number of points per Y amount spent X number of points per Y number of qualifying items purchased etc. .

According to embodiments as illustrated according to embodiments in merchant accounts A B N with points and data capture system are shown. According to embodiments each merchant account is private from other merchant s accounts. Each merchant account is hosted on server via merchant account A B N a merchant is able to access data contained in database . Using internet connected computer merchants are able to view data related to individual transactions view demographics related statistics etc. For example a merchant may want to know what age group is buying a given product or the merchant may wish to know whether more men or more women shop at his store. These data can be used in various ways by the merchant to promote products to evaluate and select advertising channels to product placement on the floor of brick and mortar stores.

According to embodiments and as illustrated in each merchant account comprises a plurality of modules. Each module is tailored to perform one or more specific functions. Front end login credential module provides merchant with a portal to securely log into and out of the account as well as change login passwords. Individual settings module gives the merchant the ability to set individual settings for example default screen resolution number of search results in a list etc. Such settings are well known and understood by artisans.

According to embodiments reports module allows the merchant to create and run various reports related to total transaction data contained in database for example. Consumer demographic information module allows merchant to create and run various queries related to the demographics of consumers with whom merchant entered transactions. Similarly product demographic information module allows the merchant to create and run various queries related to the sales of particular goods or services and evaluate the demographics of those who are buying or not buying those goods or services. Transaction histories module allows the merchant to review transaction histories based on criteria such as date store consumer etc. Each of modules are database query modules that allow the merchant to review and evaluate transaction data based on a given criteria. According to embodiments each of these modules are condensed into a single database search module. However for the purposes of illustration of the types of data that would be available in an exemplary merchant account of points and data capture system they are presented herein as individual modules. Other modules are likewise expressly contemplated depending on the specific transaction data captured per each implementation of points and data capture system .

Finally each merchant account comprises analysis tools module according to embodiments. Analysis tools module provides tools for analyzing various data. For example analysis tools may look at the sales of a particular product and make a recommendation for an advertising channel depending on demographics. For example analysis tools could look for golf products purchased by men aged 30 50 for an advertising spot in Golf Digest. According to another example the same product could be advertised in different markets using different advertising campaigns. Analysis tools module could then be used to analyze which campaign was more effective on a per demographics basis.

According to embodiments each merchant account further comprises tools related to points management rewards management and management of points campaigns. Although these functions are shown as individual modules in it will be expressly understood that all or some of the functions can be combined into a single module. Points module gives the merchant an interface to review points balances in aggregate or on a per consumer basis per location basis per geographical region basis etc. Likewise rewards module gives the merchant the ability to review rewards including according to embodiments progress towards rewards . Using rewards module merchants can review total rewards owed total rewards redeemed progress towards awards etc. on a per consumer basis per location basis per geographical area basis etc.

Points campaign module permits each merchant to create points campaigns. Each points campaign can defines the rules that govern the award of point and the criteria for qualifying for rewards. For example a campaign will determine that the first 100 consumers to spend 25 at a given location will each be awarded 10 points. The campaign will further dictate that upon accruing 25 points a consumer will qualify for a prize for example a gift card. Many variations on this theme are possible including points campaigns with unlimited point awards and an unlimited time limit e.g. airline frequent flyer awards accounts or campaign directed to a single good or service or campaigns directed to a certain geographical region or merchant location.

According to embodiments inventory module permits merchants to manage their inventory. Inventory module according to embodiments permits the merchant to monitor and replace inventory and to review trends with respect inventory. According to embodiments inventory is input either manually or via an application programming interface that is configured to receive inventory data. Inventory data can be passed down throughout the supply chain or for other purposes related to maintaining and managing inventories.

According to embodiments each merchant s account is transparent to other merchants accounts. Thus a merchant cannot view transaction details or other statistics gathered by any other merchant. According to other embodiments it is possible for merchants to exchange points between accounts. According to these embodiments merchants are able to waive a degree or all of the transparency with other merchants and allow sharing or transfer of points. For example many airlines allow points from other airlines to be used. Points and data capture system would therefore allow for the transfer of points between allied airlines merchant s accounts when the points are redeemed the balance is likewise transmitted throughout all the merchant accounts for the airline.

According to embodiments other merchants in the chain of a good or service such as the manufacturer of a good will have an account with points and data capture system and have POS total transaction data that concerns them automatically pushed to their accounts. Each manufacturer will place into commerce goods that are identified with an SKU and as such will be able to aggregate data for all goods or services associated with the SKU and use that data for beneficial purposes specific to the manufacturer.

For example when a given good is sold the manufacturer of the good may automatically have data for the transaction associated with the manufacturer s account based on the SKU. Other data that might be pushed to the manufacturers account according to embodiments includes at least the name of the merchant the identity of the consumer provided. According to other embodiments the consumer s identity or demographic information could be held confidential unless the consumer expressly consents to have it shared with the merchant or requests automatic enrollment in a warranty program for example. According to some embodiments some data from the transaction is withheld from the manufacturer. For example if a consumer purchases three goods manufactured by three different manufacturers then each manufacturer would only have access to total transaction data as it relates to them i.e. data related to sale of the goods produced by the other manufacturers would be transparent to the manufacturer such that as far as the manufacturer is concerned only a single good was purchased by the consumer. With transaction data that is automatically pushed to the manufacturer the manufacturer is able to make manufacturing forecasts run reports budget required stock and assess inventory in real time. Moreover manufacturers can use transaction data to incentivize the merchant at the POS or adjust the suggested prices based on real time data regarding demand. A manufacturer merchant account would closely resemble the merchant accounts described above except would be tailored to providing data specific to the manufacturer. Generally any entity can have an account provided they have a unique identifier such as a consumer unique identifier or a merchant unique identifier or they supply a good or service that can be uniquely identified .

According to embodiments each consumer is identified with a unique identifier that is unique to that consumer. A unique identifier comprises an alphanumeric string or other information that uniquely identifies a consumer. Examples of unique identifiers include social security numbers credit card numbers driver s license numbers email addresses etc. According to alternate embodiments each consumer s unique identifier comprises an arbitrary number assigned to the consumer or selected by the consumer.

For example each consumer is issued an account card or account FOB. According to embodiments account cards or FOBs are RFID enabled such as with FeliCa NFC or comparable technology. An account card either actively or passively transmits the consumer s unique identifier. Usage of an account card may be coupled with a PIN or other security code that would enable access to the consumer while discouraging fraudulent or unauthorized use by anyone other than the consumer. Account cards may be magnetically enabled as with a magnetic strip such that a magnetic reader is required to read the consumer identified according to alternate embodiments.

Where the unique identifier comprises one or more of a phone number e mail address name date of birth address etc. these identifiers are provided to merchants via conventional input devices without specialized machinery or devices e.g. specialized readers to correlate a consumer with the consumer s transactions. According to embodiments the unique identifier is a unique arbitrary alphanumeric assigned to a consumer account.

According to embodiments a unique identifier and mechanism for conveying the same are consolidated with other devices used to identify the consumer in other programs. For example a unique identifier relating to a consumer account may be assigned based on another selected or pre existing identifier such as a bus pass a train access card a credit card a student ID etc.

According to embodiments during a transaction between a consumer and a merchant the merchant accesses server of remote service to retrieve information from at least one of a consumer account and a merchant account from database . According to an exemplary embodiment illustrated in consumer provides a unique identifier to merchant . Merchant accesses database via server providing at least one of the unique identifier and a merchant identifier. Server retrieves information from database and provides merchant with information corresponding to at least one of consumer and merchant .

According to embodiments during a transaction between consumer and merchant the transaction is modified based on the data returned from remote server . For example points rewards or rebates accrued and recorded in the consumer s account are be applied to the transaction to modify the price offer other incentives to the consumer offer rewards offer coupons etc.

According to embodiments during a transaction between consumer and merchant the consumer s account and the merchant s account are updated based on the transaction. According to embodiments the merchant collects the total transaction data for example as disclosed below as well as the consumer s unique identifier. When the merchant transmits the transaction data including the unique identifier as part of the total transaction data a merchant identifier is also transmitted whereby points and data capture system can correlate the transaction data with both the consumer and the merchant. Once the transaction data merchant and consumer are determined by points and data capture system points are awarded based on rules defined by a points campaign. For example points may be associated with the transaction such that a consumer account is awarded points based on the transaction itself.

According to embodiments at the point of sale POS both transaction data and at least one unique identifier associated with the consumer are captured collected . Use of this data allows merchants. These data are associated together and stored in a database. The database maintains these data for later analysis or use.

According to embodiments total transaction data captured from transactions is useful in a variety of ways including providing merchants with tools to evaluate advertising success product placement and demographic purchasing trends. Merchants also benefit by better inventory control and better understanding of the demographics entering into transaction with them. For consumers the data provided by the systems and methods disclosed herein include analysis of spending and budgeting among other uses. Other uses of the systems and methods disclosed herein expressly include tracking hospital patient and equipment movement inventory management tracking people equipment movement through transit systems trains busses cars on roads Kanban production system management supply chain management SCM tracking event building guest lists hotel guest tab tracking restaurant resource supply management bar resource supply management delivery service inventory tracking related to SCM medicine inventory management for use in households pharmacy supply control especially to ensure the correct drugs are delivered in the proper dosages household clothing inventory veterinarian and animal shelter pet tracking food drink consumables rationing system management systems electronic data transmission permission management control if a files data information should be transmitted based on identifier or what data information has been transmitted .

The inventors expressly contemplate that points and data capture system of this disclosure is useful for the management of more than consumer s points accounts. Other utilities include entry into locations that require appropriate identification or invitation secure boarding of airplanes and trains etc. This disclosure is useful for any application that requires unique identification of a consumer in conjunction with other information such as demographics e.g. age requirements for clubs tickets plane train tickets and the like. Moreover merchants can use points and data capture system to manage inventory and ordering.

According to embodiments and as illustrated in points and data capture system with its related devices and modules is disclosed. According to embodiments points and data capture system comprises two primary components remote server and point of sale capture device . According to embodiments consumer merchant computer is considered part of points and data capture system but is under the control of the consumer respectively.

As illustrated in at each POS location point of sale capture device comprises one or more POS computers that capture the transaction data and identify the consumer involved in each transaction. According to embodiments POS computer comprises a cash register capable of executing software necessary to collect transaction data and associate the collected transaction data with a consumer s captured unique identifier. According to other embodiments POS computer is a stand alone device used in conjunction with other sales equipment for example analog cash registers credit card readers or cash boxes. According to this example POS computer could be a personal computer connected to server via in the internet. According to other embodiments POS computer comprises a server and a collection of nodes connecting to the server each node individually capturing transaction data and unique identifiers and conveying the data to the merchant s server e.g. a plurality of cash registers at a grocery store which connect to a server that supplies each cash register computer with prices etc. for each bar code scanned . According to still other embodiments POS computer comprises the servers computers of online merchants or intermediaries for example credit card company servers or the servers of other intermediaries for example a dedicated total transaction data collection service.

According to embodiments unique identifier reader detects a consumer based on a unique identifier of that consumer. A unique identifier comprises an alphanumeric string or other information that uniquely identifies a consumer. Examples of unique identifiers include social security numbers credit card numbers driver s license numbers email addresses etc or combinations thereof. According to alternate embodiments each consumer s unique identifier comprises an arbitrary number assigned to the consumer or selected by the consumer. According to still other embodiments unique identifier include biometrics retina scans biological samples DNA scans etc. quick response QR codes photographic recognition of shapes and colors of an object on a person or the person itself appearance based recognition unique signal pattern transmission of electromagnetic waves unique sounds vibrations both in pitch and pattern scent recognition images displayed on mobile electronic devices unique codes stored electronically on small storage devices e.g. an identifier encoded in an identifier file contained on a USB storage device light refraction through unique substances and combinations thereof. Artisans will readily recognize that many of these methods are encompassed by HID type systems wherein a unique identifier is read by a specialized reader e.g. RFID tags and readers QR codes retinal scans and other biometric scans etc. . According to embodiments a verification personal identifier PIN can be used in conjunction with the unique identifier for added security. The PIN is entered into an input device connected to POS computer according to embodiments.

According to embodiments each consumer s unique identifier is transmitted from a human interface device HID device such as an RFID reader and tag. According to embodiments HID device is an RFID tag and RFID reader. Accordingly each HID device comprises at least an HID tag having a chip or circuit that is able to store the unique identifier and cause transmission of the unique identifier when queried by HID reader via a radio frequency signal and an antenna. According to embodiments HID device can either be active or passive. For example HID device comprises an HID tag disposed in a keychain fob according to embodiments or embedded into a credit card sized card for storage in a wallet or in other locations according to other equally effective embodiments. Other examples include HID tags embedded in the microcircuits of mobile phones or other portable electronic devices. Generally the HID tag must be disposed in a device that is carried on the person of the consumer whereby unique identifier reader can detect and read the unique identifier transmitted by the HID tag when the consumer is nearby POS computer . According to the embodiments HID reader is disposed at the POS and can read the HID tag during completion of the transaction.

According to embodiments when a consumer makes a transaction for example approaching a cash register to tender payment for goods or service an HID reader queries the consumer s HID tag and captures the consumer s unique identifier from the HID tag. According to embodiments a PIN may be required to verify the identity of the consumer.

In some cases multiple HID tags from multiple consumers will be in range of unique identifier reader HID reader . In these cases HID RESOLUTION the merchant may ask the consumer for physical HID device so the merchant can disambiguate the multiple captured unique identifiers by reference to HID device according to embodiments.

According to alternate embodiments of disambiguating multiple captured unique identifiers the merchant will be able to input into POS computer features that disambiguate the consumers. For example if a couple both having an HID device approaches unique identifier reader POS computer will send both unique identifiers to server with a disambiguation request. Server will query database which will return demographic information related to both unique identifiers. The returned demographic data which will then be transmitted to POS computer . POS computer for example will present the merchant with an option of selecting whether the male or female is conducting the transaction. Depending on the selection made by the merchant the unique identifier of the actual consumer making the transaction will be disambiguated.

According to still other embodiments the consumer will enter a unique PIN into POS computer via an input device. All of the HID s captured during the transaction will then be submitted as part of the total transaction data to server . When the total transaction data reaches server the PIN will be used to select the correct HID for the transaction and the other captured unique identifiers will be discarded.

According to embodiments unique identifier reader is a credit card machine. Accordingly the consumer s credit card number comprises the unique identifier. The credit card machine reads the credit card of the consumer which is transmitted to server as part of the total transaction data set and used as the primary or a secondary unique identifier.

According to embodiments consumers have multiple unique identifiers. For example a consumer has a plurality of credit cards a driver s license a cellular telephone number and email address and an HID FOB. Each of these unique identifiers can be used to uniquely identify the consumer. For example the consumer s HID tag is read at the time he approaches a cash register by unique identifier reader which is an HID reader in this case. Thereafter the consumer might provide a credit card to tender payment to the merchant. Both the unique identifier transmitted by the HID tag and the credit card number name on the credit card or expiration date are transmitted as part of the total transaction data set to server according to embodiments and the credit card number credit card name expiration data or combinations thereof might be used to disambiguate multiple captured HID unique identifiers included in the total transaction data set. Moreover if a consumer forgets a primary form of tendering a unique identifier for example an HID card the consumer will be able to use an alternate unique identifier at the POS such as a credit card number telephone number or arbitrary unique identifier.

According to embodiments point of sale capture device is a stand alone device and peripheral used in conjunction with an analog cash register. Accordingly point of sale capture device may comprise a credit card reader as described above further comprising both unique identifier reader and POS computer or could comprise an input device that allows the consumer to manually input a unique identifier. Such an input device is any computer input device that allows a user to input an alphanumeric string for example a keyboard mouse touchpad or touch screen according to embodiments.

According to embodiments POS capture device is a specialized cash register that is configured to capture a unique identifier of a consumer via HID or via another method of identification as disclosed herein and automatically transmits the total transaction data to server . Accordingly the cash register s processor and other hardware comprise point of sale computer . The register s input and RFID reader device comprises unique identifier reader according to embodiments. According to other embodiments the cash register is configured to receive signals from ancillary hardware comprising unique identifier reader . In this case the register is POS computer .

According to another example POS computer is a stand alone device that is intended to be used with paper forms of conducting transactions for example for mobile cash stations or transactions traditionally done with paper sales slips such as the purchase of an automobile or real estate. Accordingly POS computer captures a unique identifier via unique identifier reader which could be a built in or ancillary HID reader or input device as described above. According to embodiments POS computer stores the unique identifier and outputs to the merchant a unique transaction number to be recorded with a paper record of the transaction. Thereafter the merchant either scans the paper record or manually inputs transaction details contained with the paper record. At that time the merchant would also enter the unique transaction number whereby the transaction data is coupled to the captured unique identifier of the consumer.

According to other embodiments the entire transaction is conducted manually. The merchant records a unique identifier manually from the consumer e.g. a driver s license number or a credit card number as well as the transaction data. The merchant then inputs the unique identifier and transaction data into POS computer .

According to embodiments POS capture device further comprises virtual printer . Virtual printer prints a virtual copy of a receipt recording details of the transaction between the merchant and the consumer. According to embodiments virtual printer is a portable document format pdf printer image printer word processor document printer or other printer that prints a receipt to an electronic file that is stored locally to POS computer s local disk solid state storage or RAM for example. According to embodiments the text embedded in the electronic file output from virtual printer is recognized via optical character recognition algorithms OCR or plain text. According to embodiments recognition is enhanced by providing the OCR algorithm with a template mask that directs the OCR algorithm where in the virtual receipt to seek specific pieces of information. For example the algorithm might look to the top right of the receipt to locate the date. For each data field recognized POS computer stores the data in local storage for later association with the consumer s unique identifier to form a total transaction data set and subsequent transmission to server . According to embodiments virtual printer is used in conjunction with printer for printing both a virtual copy of a receipt and a paper copy of the receipt that can be given to the consumer as proof of the transaction.

Rather than using an image of the transaction receipt via a virtual printer and OCR to recognize and capture the details of the transaction POS computer stores and transmits raw transaction data according to embodiments. For example if a consumer purchases a package of gum an SKU is scanned by an optical scanner connected to POS computer . Once POS computer recognizes the product SKU certain data is accessed via a database for example the name of the package of gum the price of the package of gum etc. Similarly other data is likewise gathered for example the date and time of the transaction the merchant or merchant s agent that conducted the transaction the physical location where the transaction occurred and other data that might be relevant with respect to a given transaction. According to embodiments these specific pieces of data are stored in a database or in an extensible mark up language XML file. Rather than outputting this data via a virtual receipt POS computer gathers the data and stores it locally until it is ready to be transmitted to server with the consumer s unique identifier. Where raw transaction data is captured according to embodiments an actual paper copy of the receipt is also output and deliverable to the consumer as proof of the transaction.

According to embodiments POS capture device also comprises printer for printing paper receipts. Printer is connected to POS computer via standard connections e.g. serial connection RS232 universal serial bus USB connection network connection via IEEE 801.02 wired standard or IEEE 802.11 wireless standard Bluetooth IEEE 802.15.1 or via proprietary connection methods. Printer is any standard receipt printer according to embodiments.

According to embodiments after transaction data and the consumer s unique identifier are captured they are associated together to form the total transaction data set. According to embodiments association occurs at the time the transaction occurs. For example at the conclusion of the transaction the transaction data and the unique identifier of the consumer are combined into the total transaction data set. The total transaction data set is stored in a database or as an XML file according to embodiments. In both cases association of the transaction data with the unique identifier is accomplished by simply adding the unique identifier to a database table or appending it to an XML file with the appropriate tags. The receipt given to the consumer as proof of the transaction includes the total transaction data according to embodiments. Thus the consumer is able to verify that he is correctly identified as the consumer. According to other embodiments the combination of unique identifier and transaction data occurs shortly after the transaction is concluded. Generally combination of the unique identifier and transaction data is effective around the time of the transaction and prior to subsequent transactions occurring.

According to embodiments and as illustrated in POS capture device communicates with remote server bi directionally. POS capture device transmits total transaction data comprising both transaction data an associated unique identifier of the consumer involved in the transaction and a merchant identifier to remote server . According to embodiments the connection between remote server and POS capture device is an internet connection using common internet protocols e.g. http ftp or others known to artisans proprietary communications protocols or occurs via telephone connection. According to embodiments communications can be encrypted or unencrypted.

According to embodiments remote server comprises at least server and database . According to embodiments server comprises at least a web server service for example an Apache web server or Internet Information Services IIS web server. Server facilitates remote communication with point of sale capture device via the web server according to embodiments. Artisans will readily understand that remote server may comprise a server farm or a plurality of interconnected servers located geographically independently for redundancy of data bandwidth or speed purposes for example.

According to embodiments server also communicates with database . According to embodiments server will support server side scripting of any kind for example PHP hypertext preprocessor PHP for access of the data to be written to or contained in database and also for dynamically presenting data as part of webpages to a consumer or merchant via consumer merchant computer .

According to embodiments database is implemented as part of server . Database is the central hub for all the data to be collected stored and processed. It is also a location from where data is retrieved. Database is an organizational tool for organizing and storing data gathered at the point of sale. Database may be implemented as a SQL database MYSQL database Cassandra or Oracle database or a proprietary database for example. Use of other commercially available or specially implemented databases are expressly contemplated. According to other embodiments database is developed specifically for organizing and storing data generated from transactions. Generally database must be able to store and retrieve large volumes of data and provide access to the data.

According to embodiments and as illustrated in the consumer merchant can use computer having an internet connection to communicate with server . Using internet connected computer merchant consumer can access a variety of data related to completed transaction.

According to embodiments illustrates various software modules comprising points and data capture system . According to the exemplary illustration the various components of data capture system are executed on point of sale capture device on remote server and on consumer merchant computer . According to embodiments each of these components are connected via the internet e.g. via http ftp or other well known or proprietary communications protocols . According to embodiments communications can be encrypted or unencrypted.

As illustrated according to exemplary embodiments POS computer comprises data capture module and data association module . Data capture module comprises according to embodiments transaction data module and unique identifier module . Transaction data module captures the details of a transaction. For example at the start of a transaction transaction data module records the date of the transaction and the time of the transaction in a local memory involved or XML file. Transaction data module also records an identifier of the merchant s agent the transaction as well as a unique merchant identifier. As the transaction proceeds transaction data module further records each good or service purchased the quantity of each good or service purchased and the price of each good or service. Towards the conclusion of the transaction data transaction module records the total amount tendered the tax due and the method of payment. According to the exemplary embodiments data transaction module also records the credit card number of the consumer if a credit card was tendered for payment as a primary or secondary unique identifier of the consumer. In this sense transaction data module captures data that is also applicable to data captured by unique identifier module . Indeed in actual practice transaction data module and unique identifier module are the same software. However they can be separate software as well particularly in embodiments where POS computer and unique identifier reader are distinct hardware each running software of their own.

According to embodiments data capture module also comprises software for running various hardware components used in the transaction. Such hardware components comprise for example bar code scanners input devices such as numeric key pads or cash register keyboards credit card machines merchant or consumer displays for showing the prices of goods or services being purchased etc. Data capture module according to embodiments communicates with a merchant maintained database to look up prices for each bar code scanned. According to other embodiments transaction data module accomplishes these tasks. As explained above the modular organization presented in is intended to illustrate functions needed to practice data capture system the organization is therefore intended to be exemplary and instructional rather than limiting.

According to embodiments where virtual printer is used to capture transaction data transaction data module is responsible for OCR of the document. After OCR is complete transaction data module parses the data. Accordingly data is recognized and categorized. For example transaction data module may have a mask to interpret the contents of an OCRed virtual receipt. The mask will tell transaction data module where to look for the date the register used for the transaction etc. According to other embodiments data transaction module parses the text and recognizes it based on preprogrammed parsing conventions e.g. how the virtual receipt formats the date time prices product identification etc . Each of these data are stored locally temporarily e.g. via database on XML file until processed by data association module .

According to embodiments unique identifier capture module captures or interacts with hardware that captures the consumer s unique identifier and records it locally. For example unique identifier capture module comprises software that interacts with or drives unique identifier reader . For example where unique identifier reader is an HID reader unique identifier capture module interacts with the HID reader and records input to the HID reader. Moreover according to embodiments unique identifier capture module disambiguates multiple or inconsistent unique identifier as described above. Data captured by unique identifier capture module is stored in the same or different database or XML file as the transaction data.

According to embodiments data association module combines the transaction data and the unique identifier and forms the total transaction data set. The total transaction data set comprises the data captured by transaction data module and the one or more unique identifiers captured during the course of the transaction. According to embodiments data association module also packages the total transaction data into a form that is readable by server . For example data association module takes transaction data parsed by transaction data module and formats it in appropriate fields into a specially server formatted document that is transmitted to server for data entry into database .

Once the total transaction data set is captured it is transmitted to server . According to embodiments server comprises database and internet connection module . As illustrated in the exemplary embodiment of server also comprises data prioritization module or data mining module .

According to embodiments data prioritization module prioritizes requests for server communications and processing bandwidth for example. According to embodiments transaction speed at the POS is highest priority for server requests. Thus POS computer is given priority over other non critical server processes or database access requests to expedite transactions at the POS. Thus when using consumer merchant computer greater lag will be experienced in obtaining access to database than when using POS computer . Similarly overhead processes such as indexing and data mining are lower priority as well. According to embodiments and as illustrated by the dashed line connecting data association module and data prioritization module data is routed first through data prioritization module prior to reaching database as the top priority data communication.

According to embodiments data mining module comprises a process that aggregates and indexes data contained in database for more rapid retrieval. Data mining module performs analysis of data within database . For example data mining module comprises a recommendations engine for recommending products or services to consumers or product placement or advertising channels for merchants according to embodiments. According to other embodiments data mining module analyzes data contained in database for trends. In essence data mining module optimizes database content for viewing via consumer merchant computer or for transmission to point of sale computer . Data mining is a low priority process according to embodiments.

Internet connection module resides on server and comprises internet back end and internet front end . Internet front end is illustrated as being part of consumer merchant computer to better visualize where each module is experienced. However artisans will readily appreciate that internet front end is actually hosted on server and consumer merchant computer downloads a document such as a hypertext markup language HTML document from server where it is hosted to consumer merchant computer where it is displayed by a web browser. Proprietary display software is contemplated as well in which case the document or raw data is transmitted via XML or other known or proprietary communications protocols.

According to embodiments internet back end is the bridge between the internet front end and database . According to embodiments internet back end comprises tools used to query database and outputs results to internet front end for viewing by the consumer or merchant. Internet back end comprises according to embodiments a plurality of scripts e.g. PHP langauge scripts executable via internet front end or automatically.

According to embodiments internet front end provides a user friendly interface for interacting with server and more specifically the data in database . Internet front end comprises according to embodiments one or more webpages designed as an interface to view data in database . For example a consumer would use internet front end to login to her account and view a history of her most recent transactions look at her spending trends or look at the balance of her rewards points with a given merchant. According to another example a merchant uses internet front end to login to his account and view transaction details from the performance of the sales of one product to the most productive salesperson to the demographics purchasing a product to the relative success of an advertising campaign and so forth. Internet front end formats webpages containing the data and allows the consumer or merchant to view the webpages in a browser. Internet front end also provides the interface for the consumer to manage her account and input demographic information as well as print coupons or otherwise interact with points and data capture system . Likewise internet front end provides the same basic account level functionality to merchant including account management analytical tools etc.

According to embodiments application programming interface API allows for the development and implementation of usable features in third party webpages or applications that require access to data in database via internet back end . According to embodiments API comprises a vocabulary and calling conventions for access to database via internet back end . The vocabulary and calling convention comprises at least one of protocols objects routines data structures etc. that enable a third party webpage or application developer to access data from database via internet back end .

According to embodiments and as illustrated in a method for combining a consumer s demographic information with transaction data is described. As illustrated transaction data is captured during a transaction between a consumer and a merchant in operation . At some point before during or after the transaction is completed at least one unique identifier of the consumer is captured as described herein in operation . The unique identifier data and transaction data are associated together to form a total transaction data set in operation which is recorded in database in operation . In operation additional demographics are associated with the total transaction data set from the demographic information provided by the consumer. Operation is optional according to embodiments as an optimization to enhance efficiency in implementations of points and data capture system that provides demographic information to consumers or merchants for transactions. After the demographics are or are not according to the particular implementation associated in embodiments that associate the consumer s demographics with the total transaction data set or after the total transaction data set is recorded in database for other embodiments data from the database is provided to merchants or consumers in operation .

According to embodiments a method of managing consumer accounts and applying points and rewards is disclosed. According to embodiments the method includes interactions between consumer merchant POS capture device and remote server for example as illustrated in .

According to embodiments during a transaction between consumer and merchant POS capture device receives at least one unique identifier. According to embodiments a merchant identifier is stored with POS capture device or separately input or captured. POS capture device transmits at least the unique identifier to remote server .

According to embodiments the points and data capture system accesses database via server containing the consumer account associated with the unique identifier. The account database may determine a feature of the consumer account including accrued points rewards and rebates available based on the consumer account. The account management system may return to the POS device a feature of the consumer account such as the number of points or available rewards for viewing.

According to embodiments POS capture device submits to the points and data capture system the total transaction data marked as pending. Points and data capture system may apply features of the consumer account to the items to be purchased and return an updated list of the points based on the pending items being purchased or any flags for any POS action s e.g. reward redemptions 15 off etc. . Such a response may be a rewards possibility available to the consumer.

According to embodiments if the consumer chooses to act on a redemption possibility POS capture device causes points and data capture system to deduct points from the consumer account. Such points may be general or specific to the number of points allocated to a given merchant. For example where points were used to receive a rebate or redemption points and data capture system would deduct points accordingly. Payment is then settled between consumer and merchant .

According to embodiments a transaction may result in the accrual of points or rewards to a consumer account. According to embodiments points and data capture system allocates points to that account based on at least one of the value of transaction and the merchant s preferences or a points campaign e.g. X number of points per Y amount spent X number of points per Y number of qualifying items purchased etc. .

According to embodiments upon completion of a transaction points and data captures system flags the items purchased as purchased rather than as pending. According to embodiments this change occurs when the total transaction data set is transmitted from POS capture device to remote server and the data is processed into database .

According to embodiments points and data capture system manages adjustments to points or other account parameters. For example in the event that too many or too few points were awarded a consumer or a merchant may interact with a points and data capture system to make the proper adjustments via consumer merchant computer and internet connection module or via POS capture device . Where a consumer wishes to return an item the purchase of which resulted in a change in the account of the consumer or the merchant the consumer or the merchant make adjustments to the relative point balances to reverse the change in the account upon return of the item. Other customizable modifications to at least one account by any one of the consumer the merchant or points and data capture system are contemplated in the present disclosure.

According to embodiments the devices systems or methods disclosed herein are operational in an information technology infrastructure or with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments or configurations that may be suitable for use with the subject matter of this disclosure include but are not limited to personal computers server computers hand held or laptop devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers telephony systems distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices or the like.

According to embodiments the devices systems or methods disclosed herein are described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include for example routines programs objects components and data structures which perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The devices systems or methods disclosed herein may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices. The computer programs are stored in a memory medium or storage medium or they may be provided to a processing unit through a network or I O bus.

According to embodiments the devices systems or methods disclosed herein include at least one central processing unit CPU or processor. According to embodiments the CPU is coupled to a memory ROM or computer readable media containing the computer executable instructions for implementing a database or the systems disclosed herein as well as performing the methods disclosed herein. The machine readable media may store instructions or data which implement all or part of the system or methods described herein. According to embodiments machine readable media is any available media that can be accessed by the devices or systems disclosed herein or by computers generally and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory read only memory EEPROM flash memory portable memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the data capture system disclosed herein.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency infrared or other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of communications media.

According to embodiments points and data capture system is provides an effective platform for handling warrantees from the merchant or manufacturers to the consumers. For example warranties for durable goods such as refrigerators lawn mowers etc can automatically be administered through use of points and data capture system .

According to embodiments the manufacturer would require that its distributors or merchants install and use points and data capture system which would enable the manufacturer to gather real time information regarding when an item they manufacture is sold. It would also help the manufacturer better manage their supply chain. For example ACME sells large quantities of lawn and garden equipment to ABC Hardware. ACME continues to produce equipment based on what it expects the market to sell. If for example ABC sells mainly walk behind mowers but ACME has anticipated sales of small garden tractors ACME would be over producing the small garden tractors. However if ACME required ABC to utilize points and data capture system at the point of sale ACME could shift what is ordering from its suppliers and its build schedule to meet the market requirements in real time.

Moreover by knowing exactly who has purchased the equipment there would be no need for the consumer to fill out warranty information. Rather warrant information could be transmitted to the manufacturer immediately. This information could be shared with ABC as well to establish a better relationship with the consumer. Product recalls could be done better as well as overall warranty handling.

Companies with multiple chains especially independent chains could employ the points and data capture system . Using points and data capture system in conjunction with each cash register would allow for better management of inventory and sales tracking. Companies would also generate real time data regarding the success of their marketing strategies.

According to embodiments points and data capture system can be used in hotels. For example guests could be issued a card with an HID tag such as an RFID tag that would be linked to the points and data capture system . The guest could go from place to place within the hotel and be offered services seamlessly confirming changes in real time. No keys or signatures would be required in the hotel at any point where a unique identifier reader could capture the guests HID. Management could also track these movements and re allocate man power and other resources immediately to areas having the most need.

While the apparatus and method have been described in terms of what are presently considered to be practical and effective embodiments it is to be understood that the disclosure need not be limited to the disclosed embodiments. It is intended to cover various modifications and similar arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the claims the scope of which should be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and similar structures. The present disclosure includes any and all embodiments of the following claims.

