---

title: Methods and systems for improved correlation of shear displacement waveforms
abstract: Methods and systems for improving correlation of shear displacement waveforms are presented. The method includes delivering one or more reference pulses to a plurality of target regions to detect corresponding initial positions. Further, a plurality of pushing pulse segments are delivered to one or more pushing locations, where one or more parameters corresponding to the plurality of pushing pulse segments are adapted for generating a shear displacement waveform with a desired wave shape. Additionally, one or more tracking pulses may be delivered to the plurality of target regions for detecting displacements of at least a subset of the target regions as a function of time. Particularly, the displacements are determined as time samples of the shear displacement waveform. Subsequently, a shift between the shear displacement waveform detected at least two different target regions in the subset of the plurality of target regions is detected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08494791&OS=08494791&RS=08494791
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08494791
owner_city: Niskayuna
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101216
---
This invention was made with government support under R01 AG029804 awarded by National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments of the disclosure relate to ultrasound imaging and more particularly to shear wave elasticity imaging with improved shear wave velocity estimation.

Medical diagnostic ultrasound is an imaging modality that employs ultrasound waves to probe the acoustic properties of biological tissues and produce a corresponding image. Particularly diagnostic ultrasound systems are used to visualize muscles tendons and many internal organs to capture their size structure and any pathological lesions using near real time tomographic images. Further diagnostic ultrasound also finds use in therapeutic procedures where an ultrasound probe is used to guide interventional procedures such as biopsies.

Generation of ultrasound pulses and detection of the reflected energy is typically accomplished via a plurality of transducers located in the ultrasound probe in proximity or contact with a patient. Such transducers typically include electromechanical elements capable of converting electrical energy into mechanical energy for transmission and mechanical energy back into electrical signals on reception. These electrical signals are further processed and transformed into a digital image of the target region such as biological tissues.

Recent ultrasound imaging techniques employ acoustically generated shear waves to determine the mechanical properties of biological tissues. Particularly some of these techniques track shear wave induced displacements through a region of interest to determine tissue mechanical properties such as shear speed and shear elastic modulus. Shear waves are generated in a phantom or target tissues by delivering one or more pushing pulses to a target region. The pushing pulses typically have higher amplitudes and longer lengths than the acoustic pulses employed in B mode or Color Doppler ultrasound imaging. Accordingly the pushing pulses generate shear waves that travel from the point of generation through the tissue causing time varying displacements at multiple locations along the tissue. Further the displacements caused by the shear wave may be detected using standard Doppler tracking pulses. Tracking the shear wave induced displacements as a function of time at the multiple locations allows an estimation of shear velocity which in turn is related to one or more mechanical properties of the tissue.

Characterization of tissue mechanical properties such as shear stiffness using shear velocity estimation has important medical applications as these properties are closely linked to tissue state with respect to pathology. Typically at least a portion of a tissue may become stiffer than surrounding tissues indicating an onset or presence of a disease such as cancer tumor fibrosis steatosis or other such conditions. Conventional shear velocity estimation techniques however suffer from inherently low signal to noise ratio SNR resulting in inefficient shear wave tracking which may further result in erroneous velocity and stiffness computations. The erroneous stiffness values in turn may affect the accuracy of a medical diagnosis. Attempts to improve the SNR by increasing the amplitude and or duration of the pulses used to create the shear waves may lead to increased acoustic radiation dosage for clinical use and therefore may be unfeasible.

It is thus desirable to develop effective methods and systems for efficient shear wave elasticity imaging. Particularly there is a need for methods and systems that for example improve the shear wave velocity estimation frame rates and spatial resolution while optimizing the ultrasound radiation dosage.

In accordance with aspects of the present technique a method for improving correlation of shear displacement waveforms is presented. The method includes delivering one or more reference pulses to a plurality of target regions to detect initial positions of the plurality of target regions. Further a plurality of pushing pulse segments are delivered to one or more pushing locations. Particularly one or more parameters corresponding to the plurality of pushing pulse segments are adapted for generating at least one shear displacement waveform with a desired wave shape. Further one or more tracking pulses are delivered to the plurality of target regions for detecting displacements of at least a subset of the plurality of target regions as a function of time. Particularly the displacements are determined as time samples of the shear displacement waveform. Subsequently a shift between the shear displacement waveform detected at least two different target regions in the subset of the plurality of target regions is determined.

In accordance with aspects of the present system an ultrasound imaging system is presented. The system includes a transducer array that delivers a plurality of pulses to a plurality of target regions. To that end the plurality of pulses include one or more reference pulses one or more tracking pulses delivered to the plurality of target regions and at least one pushing pulse delivered to one or more pushing locations as a plurality of pushing pulse segments. The system further includes a pulse shaping unit communicatively coupled to the transducer array. The pulse shaping unit generates at least one shear displacement waveform with a desired wave shape using one or more adapted parameters corresponding to the plurality of pushing pulse segments. Additionally the system also includes a processing unit communicatively coupled to at least one of the pulse shaping unit and the transducer array. The processing unit adapts the one or more parameters corresponding to the plurality of pushing pulse segments to enable the pulse shaping unit to generate the shear displacement waveform with the desired wave shape. Further the processing unit processes data received from at least a subset of the plurality of target regions in response to the plurality of pushing pulse segments to determine displacements of the plurality of target regions where the displacements are time samples of the shear displacement waveform. Subsequently the processing unit determines a shift between the shear displacement waveform detected at least two different target regions in the subset of the plurality of target regions.

In accordance with another aspect of the present technique a non transitory computer readable storage medium with an executable program thereon for improving correlation of shear displacement waveforms is disclosed. Particularly the executable program instructs a processing unit to deliver one or more reference pulses to a plurality of target regions to detect corresponding initial positions. Further a plurality of pushing pulse segments are delivered to one or more pushing locations under program instruction. To that end one or more parameters corresponding to the plurality of pushing pulse segments are adapted for generating at least one shear displacement waveform with a desired wave shape. Additionally one or more tracking pulses are delivered to the one or more target regions for detecting displacements of at least a subset of the plurality of target regions as a function of time. Particularly the displacements are determined as time samples of the shear displacement waveform. Subsequently the program instructs a processing unit to determine a shift between the shear displacement waveform detected at least two different target regions in the subset of the plurality of target regions.

The following description presents systems and methods for enhanced shear wave elasticity imaging SWEI . Particularly certain embodiments illustrated herein describe the systems and the methods that greatly improve the correlation of shear displacement waveforms and thus the estimation of mechanical characteristics such as shear stiffness while imaging a target object such as biological tissues. Although the following description includes only a few embodiments the SWEI systems and methods may be implemented in various other imaging systems and applications to achieve enhanced imaging with optimized processing and dose control. By way of example the SWEI systems and methods may also be used for monitoring target drug and gene delivery and nondestructive testing of elastic materials such as plastics and aerospace composites that may be suitable for ultrasound imaging. The systems and methods described in the present disclosure also find use in detecting cancerous lesions in breast thyroid liver or other organs. Additionally the present systems and methods may also be used to help diagnosis and stage liver fibrosis and to help monitor therapies including high intensity focused ultrasound HIFU radiofrequency ablation RFA and brachytherapy. An exemplary environment that is suitable for practicing various implementations of the present system is described in the following sections with reference to .

As used herein the term reference pulse refers to an ultrasonic beam fired at a time when there is little expected motion or a known amount of motion. The reference pulse is typically fired prior to a pushing pulse or long after a push at a point in time at which the tissue is considered to have returned to a resting or equilibrium position. Particularly the reference pulse is fired to detect an initial or a reference position of the target region . The term pushing pulse refers to a high energy ultrasonic beam used to displace the target tissues. Typically the pushing pulse has a higher transmitting energy than the reference pulse. Further the term tracking pulse describes an ultrasound beam similar to a reference pulse used to detect the position of the target region at a particular instant of time. By way of example the tracking pulse may be delivered shortly after the delivery of a pushing pulse to determine a displaced position of the target region .

Accordingly in one embodiment the system includes transmit circuitry that generates a pulsed waveform to drive an array of transducer elements for example piezoelectric crystals within a transducer probe to emit pulsed ultrasonic signals into a body or volume. At least a portion of the pulsed ultrasonic signals back scatter from the target region to produce echoes that return to the transducer array . The transducer elements convert these echo signals into electrical signals and may communicate the electrical signals to receive circuitry for further processing.

In one embodiment the system further includes a processing unit that controls the operations of the transmit circuitry and the receiver circuitry. To that end the processing unit includes one or more general purpose or application specific processors digital signal processors microcomputers microcontrollers Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGA or other suitable devices in communication with other components of the system . In certain embodiments the processing unit operates in response to commands received from a human operator via one or more user input devices such as a keyboard touchscreen mouse buttons and or switches.

The processing unit provides control and timing signals for controlling the delivery sequence of the different pulses frequency of delivering the tracking pulses and the pushing pulses a time delay between two different pulses beam intensity and or other imaging system parameters. Particularly in accordance with aspects of the present technique the processing unit provides appropriate timing and control signals to the transmit circuitry for delivering a pushing force that induces a shear displacement waveform with a desired wave shape through the target region .

To that end the processing unit divides a pushing pulse having the desired pushing force into shorter segments to generate a plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments. Additionally the processing unit adapts one or more parameters corresponding to the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments so as to generate a shear wave that induces desired displacements at a plurality of points along the target region . By way of example the one or more parameters corresponding to the plurality of shorter pushing pulse include amplitude frequency pulse length waveform and or duty cycle. Particularly the processing unit determines appropriate values of the one or more parameters for each of the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments to generate the shear waveform having a desired a sinusoidal triangular square sinc or coded shape. In one embodiment the choice of the desired waveforms may be based on the particular algorithm being used for detecting the shift in the shear displacement waveforms and or a particular statistical form of noise encountered during imaging.

Further in certain embodiments the processing unit may store the determined values of the one or more parameters in a memory device for further processing. To that end the memory device may include storage devices such as a random access memory a read only memory a disc drive solid state memory device and or a flash memory. Alternatively the processing unit communicates the determined values to a pulse shaping circuit in the transmit circuitry that generates the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments. Further these shorter pushing pulse segments generate a shear displacement waveform having a digital code convolved with a delta function a multi level code convolved with a delta function a sine waveform a square waveform a sinc waveform or combinations thereof. Accordingly the pulse shaping circuit may include for example one or more amplifiers analog to digital converters digital to analog converters filters a memory and or a PCI bus interface not shown . Although illustrates the pulse shaping circuit as a part of the transmit circuitry certain embodiments may employ an independent pulse shaping system. Alternatively the pulse shaping circuit may be provided as a part of another system component such as the processing unit to generate the pulse sequence comprising the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments having the one or more adapted parameters to generate the shaped waveform.

Inclusion of shaped features into the driving pulse sequence comprising the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments by varying the one or more parameters results in a shear wave that induces corresponding levels of displacements at different points along the target region . Particularly the resulting displacements approximate the shape and the location of the features included in the driving pulse sequence and convolved with the response of the rest of the system. By way of example it is known that the pulse length is proportional to the induced displacement. Accordingly in a sequence of the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments if the corresponding pulse lengths are adapted to approximate a sine waveform the displacements induced by the resulting shear wave also approximate the sine waveform. The resulting displacements determined as a function of time thus exhibit the shaped feature at different locations as the shear wave propagates along the target region .

In certain embodiments the system includes a display device such as a monitor for displaying an image corresponding to the displacements detected at multiple locations. In one embodiment the display device may further include a graphical user interface GUI for providing a user with configurable options for imaging the target region. By way of example the configurable options may include a desired wave shape values of the one or more parameters corresponding to the shorter pushing pulse segments a selectable region of interest ROI a delay profile a desired pulse sequence and or other suitable imaging system settings. The configuration options may be adapted to improve the shear wave velocity estimation using shaped pulses for improved correlation detection between the shear displacement waveforms.

Accordingly the processing unit estimates a correlation between the signals corresponding to the shear displacement waveforms detected at the different locations as a function of time using a timing circuitry not shown . Particularly the processing unit uses information corresponding to the location of the shaped feature in the transmitted pulse sequence for quickly estimating the correlation. The processing unit uses the correlated feature to determine a shift between the shear displacement waveform detected at two different target regions. The determined shift may further be used to estimate the velocity of the shear waveform based on the improved correlation. An exemplary method for improving correlation of shear displacement waveforms and estimating the shear wave velocity will be described in greater detail with reference to .

Further the shear wave velocity depends on material properties of the target region . Accordingly the estimated shear wave velocity may be used to determine tissue mechanical characteristics such as a stiffness or viscosity. The determined tissue characteristics may then be used to identify the presence of a disease or abnormality in the target tissue. An exemplary SWEI method that employs shaped waveforms for improved improving correlation of shear displacement waveforms is described in greater detail with reference to .

Turning to a flow chart depicting an exemplary SWEI method in accordance with certain aspects of the present technique is presented. The exemplary method may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions on a computing system or a processor. Generally computer executable instructions may include routines programs objects components data structures procedures modules functions and the like that perform particular functions or implement particular abstract data types. The exemplary method may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where optimization functions are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communication network. In the distributed computing environment the computer executable instructions may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

Further in the exemplary method is illustrated as a collection of blocks in a logical flow chart which represents operations that may be implemented in hardware software or combinations thereof. The various operations are depicted in the blocks to illustrate the functions that are performed generally during different phases of the exemplary SWEI method. In the context of software the blocks represent computer instructions that when executed by one or more processing subsystems perform the recited operations. The order in which the exemplary method is described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described blocks may be combined in any order to implement the exemplary method disclosed herein or an equivalent alternative method. Additionally certain blocks may be deleted from the exemplary method or augmented by additional blocks with added functionality without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. For discussion purposes the exemplary method will be described with reference to the elements of .

SWEI is used to differentiate between healthy and diseased tissues based on an estimated velocity of a shear wave as it propagates through the healthy and diseased tissues. Shear wave velocity depends on material properties such as varying tissue density and shear modulus. Accordingly shear wave elasticity imaging may be used to generate 2D or 3D images for diagnostic and or prognostic purposes. Typically during shear wave elasticity imaging the imaging system focus is set at the target region. By way of example the target region may include regions that may have increased or decreased stiffness relative to the average surrounding tissue such as tumors cancerous tissues ablated tissues and or hardened blood vessels.

Further the present description includes embodiments that describe adapting pushing pulse parameters to generate a shear displacement waveform of a desired wave shape to allow for better detection using cross correlation. Certain embodiments may employ additional methods such as a sum of absolute differences iterative phase zeroing cross correlation and auto correlation techniques for improving the estimation of the shift between shear displacement waveforms detected at different target regions.

Accordingly at step transmit circuitry such as the transmit circuitry of delivers one or more reference pulses to one or more target regions. As previously noted the reference pulses refer to ultrasonic beams fired at a point in time at which the tissue is considered to be at equilibrium position. The reference pulses thus detect an initial or a reference position of each of the one or more target regions. Further at step the transmit circuitry delivers a pushing pulse to one or more pushing locations to induce a shear wave that propagates through the target regions.

Particularly the transmit circuitry delivers the pushing pulse as a plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments to a particular push location. To that end a number N of the shorter pushing pulse segments and one or more corresponding parameters are determined. As previously noted the one or more parameters may include for example amplitude frequency phase pulse length waveform and or focus location. Particularly appropriate values of the one or more parameters for each of the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments are determined so as to generate the shear displacement waveform having a desired a sinusoidal triangular square sinc coded or other shape.

Accordingly a number N and the parameter values are determined such that firing the shorter pushing pulse segments at a specific repetition rate or at a non uniform interval generates a desired displacement as a function of time at the required spatial locations. By way of example it is known that the pulse length is proportional to induced displacement. Accordingly the pulse lengths of each of the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments in a pulse sequence may be adapted to approximate a desired wave shape for the resulting shear displacement waveform.

By way of example illustrates a graphical representation of an exemplary sequence of the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments having corresponding pulse lengths adapted to approximate a portion of a sine waveform. In the element is indicative of a plurality of tracking pulses fired at particular instants of time whereas the circular elements and are indicative of pushing pulse segments applied to a particular push location. Particularly the Y coordinate position corresponding to a particular pushing pulse segment is indicative of the pulse length used to generate a proper displacement for a particular phase of the sine waveform. Further the corresponding X coordinate position shows the particular instants of time at which the pushing pulse segment is applied to the push location. By way of example the pushing pulse segment is fired at a time 87 milliseconds into the exemplary pulse sequence illustrated in . Further the length of the pushing pulse segment is about 92 microseconds.

As previously noted the pulse duration or the pulse lengths of the shorter pushing pulse segments are directly proportional to the induced displacement. Accordingly the pulse length associated with each of the elements is varied so as to apply appropriate pushing force to generate a shear displacement waveform that approximates a desired sinusoidal shape. Although depicts varying values of pulse lengths other suitable parameters such as amplitude frequency phase and or waveform may also be varied to generate a shear displacement waveform corresponding to a desired wave shape. Particularly appropriate values of the parameters for each of the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments may be determined so as to generate the shear displacement waveform that causes displacements that approximate for example a desired sinusoidal triangular square or sinc shape. As previously noted the choice of the desired waveforms may be based on the particular algorithm being used for determining a shift in the shear displacement waveforms and or a particular statistical form of noise encountered during imaging.

Returning to step of one or more tracking pulses are delivered to the plurality of target regions for detecting displacements of the plurality of target regions as a function of time. In the presently contemplated configuration the tracking pulses are fired after the delivery of the plurality of pushing pulse segments. In alternative embodiments however the one or more tracking pulses may be delivered in between the pushing segments for detecting corresponding displacements. Particularly the tracking pulses are used to determine the displacements of the tissue at least a subset of the through which the shear wave travels. For each target region in the subset a series of tracking pulses is fired. These tracking pulses are used to determine corresponding displacements for that target region as a function of time. Specifically for each tracking pulse fired a corresponding displacement is determined. By way of example the tracking pulses determine the displacement as of a target region as a function of time using techniques such as speckle tracking techniques a sum of absolute differences iterative phase zeroing direct strain estimators cross correlation and auto correlation techniques.

Particularly illustrates a graphical representation depicting a plurality of waveforms that are representative of the displacements caused by the delivery of the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments of to a particular location in the target tissue. Further the plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments delivered to the particular locations generate a shear displacement waveform that propagates through the target tissues causing displacement not only at the point of delivery but also at the plurality of target locations in the target tissues. As previously noted a series of tracking pulses are used to determine the displacements of the tissue at various locations through which the shear wave travels. In the waveform is representative of the displacement detected at the point of delivery of the pushing pulse whereas the waveforms and depict the relative displacements detected at locations that are spatially separated from the point of delivery by 0.5 mm 2.1 mm and 7.1 mm respectively. Taken together each of these displacements detected by the tracking pulses form a shear displacement waveform for a particular tracking location. The shear displacement waveform is sampled at the instant of time at which the tracking pulses were fired. Multiple tracking locations are used and thus the displacements as function of time are available for each of these locations.

Since the displacements are caused by a traveling shear wave the shear displacement waveforms for locations that are close together have a similar shape but are shifted in time. The shift in time is cause by the time it takes for the shear wave to propagate from location to location. Under certain simplifying assumptions the velocity of the shear wave can be calculated by dividing the distance between at least two different locations by the time shift in the waveform. The time shift can be determined for example by cross correlation of the displacement waveforms.

Accordingly at step of a shift between the shear displacement waveform detected at least two different target regions in the subset of the plurality of target regions is determined. Particularly the cross correlation between the shear displacement waveforms detected at least a pair of tracking locations enables determination of the shear wave travel time. As previously described with reference to step the shear displacement waveforms are created with a desired shape and temporal extent. By way of example . and . depict a 50 Hz sine waveform generated with multiple cycles.

Conventional SWEI techniques typically use a single pushing pulse and cause displacements that generate a single waveform with a single maximum displacement peak. Correlating the single waveform at the plurality of locations is usually difficult owing to the low SNR of the SWEI process which in turn affects the accuracy of the shear wave velocity computations. The present SWEI method however employs a plurality of shorter pushing pulse segments with adapted pulse parameters to generate a shear displacement waveform with a desired wave shape. By way of example the sine waveform generated in by virtue of the multiple cycles and the well defined wave shape has a higher signal to noise ratio SNR when correlated in the presence of noise as compared to a simple single push waveform used in conventional SWEI techniques.

The systems and methods disclosed hereinabove describe the use of the pulse shaping technique allows for the inclusion of specific features in the resulting shear displacement waveform to greatly improve the correlation estimation in turn providing a more accurate estimate of the shear wave velocity. The estimated shear wave velocity values may then be used to generate high resolution ultrasound images that provide greater detail and more accurate levels of information regarding tissue characteristics to aid in a substantially accurate diagnosis.

Accordingly the present systems and methods may be employed to assess mechanical properties of tissues or any other material that is suitable for shear wave elasticity imaging. By way of example the systems and methods facilitate characterization of arterial stiffness assessment of muscle tone and assessment of kidney stiffness for distinguishing between healthy and diseased tissues based on an improved estimate of shear wave velocity through the tissues. Additionally the exemplary SWEI methods may also be used in radio frequency RF ablation therapy such as used for liver cancer to monitor the progress of the therapy in near real time.

While only certain features of the present invention have been illustrated and described herein many modifications and changes will occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the invention.

