---

title: Scheduling and delivering ad meetings
abstract: A system and method for scheduling advertisement viewing sessions (“ad meetings”) and delivering those advertisements to a willing user. An ad meeting is scheduled by a user by creating and storing an ad meeting calendar item and sending a notification to an advertising agent. The advertising agent may select advertisements to send to the user based on the user's specified preferences, location, the time of the meeting, the time of the shopping trip, and/or other criteria. Alternatively, the advertising agent may invite users to an ad meeting by sending an invitation containing an ad meeting calendar item, or alternatively a user may share advertisements with other users by forwarding advertisements or inviting other users to an ad meeting. As an incentive to view advertisements, the user may have credits applied to their communications service provider account based on their advertisement viewing and sharing activity.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346229&OS=08346229&RS=08346229
owner: Research In Motion Limited
number: 08346229
owner_city: 
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100226
---
Computers and modern mobile communication devices collectively communication devices such as Personal Digital Assistants PDAs and smartphones are widely used today for many purposes including personal information management communication and entertainment.

As communication devices and telecommunications technologies have become widely accessible to and adopted by the public commercial enterprises have sought means to exploit these mediums for marketing purposes particularly for advertising.

Conventional means of on line advertising such as banner ads displayed on webpages have the disadvantages of being potentially ignored and viewed as a nuisance or distraction from the user s task at hand. There remains a need for effective presentation of advertisements.

The embodiments described herein provide a system and method for scheduling advertisement viewing sessions called ad meetings and delivering those advertisements to a user. The word viewing is used herein to refer not only to the act of looking at or visually perceiving an advertisement or message but also to other acts of sensory perception of advertisements or messages such as listening to an audible message or sensing vibrations or tactile signals generated by a communication device and is herein used interchangeably with the word perceiving . Thus the advertisement viewing sessions or ad meetings described herein may also be considered to be advertisement perceiving sessions. The embodiments will be described in relation to a communication device such as a mobile communication device having one or more user interfaces for presenting information to a user of the device such as a screen for displaying content within a graphical user interface a speaker and or headphones or earphones for generating sounds audible to the user and a vibratory and or tactile interface for generating human perceptible vibrations or tactile communications such as Braille messages. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art however that this description is not intended to limit the scope of the described embodiments to mobile communication devices. The methods and systems described herein may be applied to any appropriate communication or data processing device capable of communicating over a network whether portable or wirelessly enabled or not including without limitation cellular phones smartphones wireless organizers personal digital assistants desktop computers terminals laptops tablets handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and the like. For ease of reference the description below will generally refer to visually perceptible advertisements and ad meetings but as noted above the embodiments described herein should not be considered to be limited to visual advertisements.

The embodiments described herein may be implemented on a communication device such as that illustrated in . The communication device may communicate with other devices over a wireless communication system or enterprise system as illustrated in . The communication device may be a mobile device with two way communication and advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The communication device can also have voice communication capabilities.

The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this exemplary embodiment of the communication device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with one or more of Global System for Mobile Communication GSM General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS EDGE or UMTS and optionally other network communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Other wireless networks can also be associated with the communication device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that can be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS or fourth generation 4G networks such as LTE and LTE Advanced. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems. The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems . Auxiliary input output subsystems may include other interfaces for outputting sound such as headphone or earphone jacks for use with headphones or earphones vibratory modules for generating vibrations in the communication device and tactile interfaces for generating tactile communications. Other device subsystems may include voice synthesizer modules for use with other subsystems for conveying information to the user. Another device subsystem may be a Global Positioning System GPS module or another type of locational technology for determining the approximate geographical position of the communication device which may operate in conjunction with network based positioning technology.

Some of the subsystems of the communication device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems can provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard can be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

A rendering circuit is included in the device . When a user specifies that a data file is to be viewed on the display the rendering circuit analyzes and processes the data file for visualization on the display . Rendering circuit may be implemented as hardware software or as a combination of both hardware and software.

The communication device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the communication device . To identify a subscriber the communication device requires a SIM RUIM card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM card is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the communication device and to personalize the communication device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM card the communication device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM RUIM card into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services can include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services can include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM card includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM card is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM card can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM RUIM card is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM RUIM card can store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The communication device may be a battery powered device including a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the communication device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells can provide the power to the communication device .

The communication device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which can alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof can be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the communication device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the communication device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the communication device or some other suitable storage element in the communication device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages can be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the communication device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the communication device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items can be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the communication device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

The communication device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the communication device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the communication device is authorized to interface with. Examples of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system are given in which are described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of Application Programming Interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the communication device to allow the communication device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the communication device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the communication device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the communication device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the communication device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities media players etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the communication device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the communication device and can provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications can enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the communication device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the communication device by providing for information or software downloads to the communication device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path can for example be used to load an encryption key onto the communication device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication. The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the communication device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the communication device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the communication device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem can include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber can also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem can include devices such as a touchscreen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. If a touchscreen is provided on the communication device then the operating system of the device may provide a soft or virtual keyboard comprising graphic user interface elements actuatable via the touchscreen. The virtual keyboard may be used in place of or in conjunction with a physical keyboard. However other types of keyboards can also be used. A composed item can be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem . It will be appreciated that if the display comprises a touchscreen then the auxiliary subsystem may still comprise one or more of the devices identified above.

For voice communications the overall operation of the communication device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the communication device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which can perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter can be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The wireless link between the communication device and the wireless network can contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between the communication device and the wireless network . An RF channel is a limited resource that should be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of the communication device . When the communication device is fully operational the transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is transmitting to the wireless network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly the receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

In a GSM network the MSC is coupled to the BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through the PCU the SGSN and the GGSN to a public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities the BSC also contains the Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to the SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track the location of the communication device and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management the HLR is shared between the MSC and the SGSN . Access to the VLR is controlled by the MSC .

The station is a fixed transceiver station and together with the BSC form fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile devices within its cell via the station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the communication device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from the communication device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters can vary between different nodes. For example one node can employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all communication devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a user profile is stored in the HLR . The HLR also contains location information for each registered mobile device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile device. The MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of the mobile devices currently in its area of responsibility in the VLR . Further the VLR also contains information on mobile devices that are visiting other networks. The information in the VLR includes part of the permanent mobile device data transmitted from the HLR to the VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to the VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times and at the same time requiring less use of computing resources.

The SGSN and the GGSN are elements added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. The SGSN and the MSC have similar responsibilities within the wireless network by keeping track of the location of each communication device . The SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on the wireless network . The GGSN provides internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connects to one or more SGSNs via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given communication device must perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This requirement is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses are used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently all GPRS capable networks use private dynamically assigned IP addresses thus requiring the DHCP server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic IP assignment including using a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and a DHCP server. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection is established from a communication device through the PCU and the SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within the GGSN . The APN represents a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN also represents a security mechanism for the network insofar as each communication device must be assigned to one or more APNs and communication devices cannot exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN can be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach operation is complete a tunnel is created and all traffic is exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This includes tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity Ipsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there are a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts the network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a communication device is not using its PDP Context the PDP Context can be de allocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by the DHCP server .

The host system comprises a number of network components connected to each other by a network . For instance a user s desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the user s communication device is situated on a LAN connection. The cradle for the communication device can be coupled to the computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other user computers are also situated on the network and each can be equipped with an accompanying cradle . The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications from the user computer to the communication device and can be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the communication device for use. The information downloaded to the communication device can include certificates used in the exchange of messages.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the user computers are typically also connected to other peripheral devices such as printers etc. which are not explicitly shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of the host system are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the host system will comprise additional components that are not explicitly shown in for this exemplary configuration. More generally the host system can represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and can comprise different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the exemplary embodiment of .

To facilitate the operation of the communication device and the wireless communication of messages and message related data between the communication device and components of the host system a number of wireless communication support components can be provided. In some implementations the wireless communication support components can include a message management server a mobile data server a web server such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP server a contact server and a device manager module . HTTP servers can also be located outside the enterprise system as indicated by the HTTP server attached to the network . The device manager module includes an IT Policy editor and an IT user property editor as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the communication devices . In an alternative embodiment there can be one editor that provides the functionality of both the IT policy editor and the IT user property editor . The support components also include a data store and an IT policy server . The IT policy server includes a processor a network interface and a memory unit . The processor controls the operation of the IT policy server and executes functions related to the standardized IT policy as described below. The network interface allows the IT policy server to communicate with the various components of the host system and the communication devices . The memory unit can store functions used in implementing the IT policy as well as related data. Those skilled in the art know how to implement these various components. Other components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art. Further in some implementations the data store can be part of any one of the servers.

In this exemplary embodiment the communication device communicates with the host system through node of the wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to the host system can be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of the host system can operate from behind a firewall or proxy server . The proxy server provides a secure node and a wireless internet gateway for the host system . The proxy server intelligently routes data to the correct destination server within the host system .

In some implementations the host system can include a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the host system and the communication device . The wireless VPN router allows a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to the communication device . The wireless VPN router can be used with the Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 and IP based wireless networks. This protocol can provide enough IP addresses so that each mobile device has a dedicated IP address making it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it can be an off the shelf VPN component and does not require a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure. A VPN connection can preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection for delivering the messages directly to the communication device in this alternative implementation.

Messages intended for a user of the communication device are initially received by a message server of the host system . Such messages can originate from any number of sources. For instance a message can have been sent by a sender from the computer within the host system from a different mobile device not shown connected to the wireless network or a different wireless network or from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

The message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by the message server . Some exemplary implementations of the message server include a Microsoft Exchange server a Lotus Domino server a Novell Groupwise server or another suitable mail server installed in a corporate environment. In some implementations the host system can comprise multiple message servers . The message server can also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by the message server they are typically stored in a data store associated with the message server . In at least some embodiments the data store can be a separate hardware unit such as data store with which the message server communicates. Messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users by accessing the message server . For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer can request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on the data store associated with the message server . These messages are then retrieved from the data store and stored locally on the computer . The data store associated with the message server can store copies of each message that is locally stored on the communication device . Alternatively the data store associated with the message server can store all of the messages for the user of the communication device and only a smaller number of messages can be stored on the communication device to conserve memory. For instance the most recent messages i.e. those received in the past two to three months for example can be stored on the communication device .

When operating the communication device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the communication device . The message application operating on the communication device can also request messages associated with the user s account from the message server . The message application can be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations the communication device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to the communication device are automatically redirected to the communication device as they are received by the message server .

The message management server can be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile devices. Generally while messages are still stored on the message server the message management server can be used to control when if and how messages are sent to the communication device . The message management server also facilitates the handling of messages composed on the communication device which are sent to the message server for subsequent delivery.

For example the message management server can monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on the message server for new e mail messages and apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages are relayed to the user s communication device . The message management server can also through an encoder not shown associated therewith compress message data using any suitable compression decompression technology e.g. YK compression JPEG MPEG x H.26x and other known techniques and encrypt messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES and push them to the communication device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . The message management server can also receive messages composed on the communication device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to the message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by the communication device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by the message management server . These may include whether the communication device can receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from the communication device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address for example.

The message management server can also be adapted to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on the message server to the communication device . For example in some cases when a message is initially retrieved by the communication device from the message server the message management server can push only the first part of a message to the communication device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request that more of the message be delivered in similar sized blocks by the message management server to the communication device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size. Accordingly the message management server facilitates better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to the communication device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

The mobile data server encompasses any other server that stores information that is relevant to the corporation. The mobile data server can include but is not limited to databases online data document repositories customer relationship management CRM systems or enterprise resource planning ERP applications. The mobile data server can also connect to the Internet or other public network through HTTP server or other suitable web server such as a File Transfer Protocol FTP server to retrieve HTTP webpages and other data. Requests for webpages are typically routed through mobile data server and then to HTTP server through suitable firewalls and other protective mechanisms. The web server then retrieves the webpage over the Internet and returns it to mobile data server . As described above in relation to message management server mobile data server is typically provided or associated with an encoder that permits retrieved data such as retrieved webpages to be decompressed and compressed using any suitable compression technology e.g. YK compression JPEG MPEG x H.26x and other known techniques and encrypted e.g. using an encryption technique such as DES Triple DES or AES and then pushed to the communication device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . While encoder is only shown for mobile data server it will be appreciated that each of message server message management server and HTTP servers and can also have an encoder associated therewith.

The contact server can provide information for a list of contacts for the user in a similar fashion as the address book on the communication device . Accordingly for a given contact the contact server can include the name phone number work address and e mail address of the contact among other information. The contact server can also provide a global address list that contains the contact information for all of the contacts associated with the host system .

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the message management server the mobile data server the HTTP server the contact server the device manager module the data store and the IT policy server do not need to be implemented on separate physical servers within the host system . For example some or all of the functions associated with the message management server can be integrated with the message server or some other server in the host system . Alternatively the host system can comprise multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile devices need to be supported.

The device manager module provides an IT administrator with a graphical user interface with which the IT administrator interacts to configure various settings for the communication devices . As mentioned the IT administrator can use IT policy rules to define behaviors of certain applications on the communication device that are permitted such as phone web browser or Instant Messenger use. The IT policy rules can also be used to set specific values for configuration settings that an organization requires on the communication devices such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP VPN configuration security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms password rules etc. specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the communication device and the like.

Rendering data files originally optimized or prepared for visualization on large screen displays on a portable electronic device display often requires additional processing prior to visualization on the small screen portable electronic device displays. According to an embodiment this additional processing is accomplished by the rendering engine shown in . As will be appreciated by those of skill in the art the rendering engine can be implemented in hardware software or a combination thereof and can comprise a dedicated image processor and associated circuitry or can be implemented within main processor .

The embodiments described herein are described in the context of one or more communication devices in communication with one or more advertising agents over a network. A simple embodiment is shown in . The advertising agent may be operated and managed by a party advertising its own products and services or a service provider advertising the products and services of its customers. Advertising agents may comprise one or more servers for communication with communication devices such as mobile communication devices or personal computers referred to herein as communication devices . Where a plurality of servers are employed each server may carry out the same or different tasks such as handling application program interface calls from client applications or handling requests received from customers to make advertisements available to users. The servers may be in communication with one or more databases storing advertisements and related data and user information. It will be appreciated that the function of a single server may be distributed across a plurality of servers. As such use of the term server herein may refer to a single server or a plurality of servers.

Advertisement and related data are supplied by advertisers . In an exemplary embodiment advertisers may set up advertiser accounts with advertising agents by completing an online questionnaire to create an advertiser profile. Password protected access may be provided by the advertising agent for advertisers to view and change their profile.

Once an account has been set up an advertiser may send advertising materials and related data to the advertising agent via any known means of transferring data across a network such as public shared network . For example the advertiser may access the advertising agent s web portal where the advertiser may be prompted to upload an advertisement and to provide data related to the advertisement. Each advertisement may be uniquely identified by an assigned number or by any other means. The advertisement may be provided and stored in any number of formats including but not limited to a text message such as an SMS message a URL an HTML page a graphic an audio file a video file or another file format that can be rendered by an input output subsystem of the device . Advertisers may also provide data to be associated with each advertisement such as the category of the product or service advertised the geographic location to which the advertisement applies or the applicable store names and locations and the time period the advertisement is to be run. The advertising agent may require advertisers to pay a fee for service by electronic transfer of funds or otherwise to store advertising materials and to distribute the advertisements to users.

User information stored by advertising agents may comprise user supplied identification information and may also comprise user preferences and scheduled ad meetings described below. User information may also comprise information collected about the user s ad viewing history such as the number of advertisements viewed and the time spent viewing or perceiving advertisements.

In one embodiment users may register with one or more advertising agents by setting up ad viewing accounts with each advertising agent . Registration with an advertising agent may include creation of a user profile for example by completing an online questionnaire. The advertising agent may also provide user access to view the status of their ad viewing account and change their profile online for example by password protected access to the stored user information. While user registration may be carried out in a web based online transaction between the advertising agent and the user over the network registration may take place using other communication means such as via e mail or over the telephone. Further the advertising agent may delegate registration and management of the user s profile to a communications service provider associated with the user so that the user profile data may be stored in a database at the communications service provider and the user may interact with a server in communication with the database . In some embodiments the advertising agent and the communications service provider may be the same entity or related entities. The following description describes an independently operating advertising agent and communications service provider but it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the advertising agent and communications service provider functions described herein may be carried out by the same party. It will also be appreciated that any other means known in the art for collecting the necessary information to set up an account and for updating and storing the user profile information associated therewith may be used.

The advertising agent may identify each user by a unique or quasi unique identifier such as the user s e mail address or another communications address such as a telephone number or alternatively by a user account number or identifier associated with the advertising agent by the user s communications service provider account number or a combination of such user information. Where users are provided with online or other access to their user information any user supplied or otherwise assigned passwords are stored and associated with each identifier. The user may be required to provide the password to access the user information stored in the database . This same password may also be used by the user to obtain further goods or services as a result of the advertisements viewed as described below.

In addition to user identification information the user profile may also comprise information such as the telephone number or communications service provider account number to which the user wishes to associate their ad viewing account if that information is not used as the identifier the user s preferences as to the type and form of advertisements they are most interested in viewing and the user s shopping preferences such as whether the user prefers to shop online or in person and in the latter case the location of stores malls or plazas frequented and the user s favourite brands and merchants.

In the embodiments described herein to provide users with an incentive to view or otherwise perceive advertisements that may be delivered to the user s communication device users may be credited for the time they spend viewing advertisements and additionally or alternatively for the number or type of advertisements viewed. Users may also be credited for the advertisements they share with other users for example based on the number of invitations they send to other users to view particular advertisements or ad meetings and additionally or alternatively for the number of advertisements they forward to other users. Credit for sending invitations or forwarding advertisements or ad meetings to other users may only be granted if it is determined that the recipient users actually viewed or otherwise perceived the advertisements. The credit may be assessed in abstract credit units in minutes or currency equivalent for example for each minute of basic advertising delivered and viewed by the user the user may be credited the equivalent of one minute or some other amount of time which may be greater or less than one minute or the user may be credited in the equivalent of currency where for example one minute of basic advertising viewing is equivalent to 0.05 dollars or some other predetermined amount although the user may not be able to redeem the credit for cash. If the credit is redeemable in different ways the credit may be measured in points or units where for example one minute of viewing basic advertising is credited a predetermined number of credit units. The credit granted to the user may be redeemable in a variety of ways for example the credit accumulated by a user may be applied to the user s billing account with the communications service provider for voice or data services. The user may receive a discount on voice or data services if a predetermined level of credit is achieved or maintained or the user may be eligible to receive enhanced services such as extra minutes on a voice or data plan voicemail or short message service SMS at a discounted rate or for free. Alternatively credit may be redeemable for other goods and services such as with customer loyalty programs which are known in the art. In a further embodiment voice and or data communication may be provided to the user for free provided the user maintains a minimum level of credit for example greater than zero or some other predetermined amount . When a user s credit falls below the minimum level communications services may be terminated by the communications service provider although emergency calls and advertisement viewing may still be permitted. In order to regain access to other communications services the user may either purchase credits earn credits by attending ad meetings and viewing ads as described below or changing to a different account model in which the user pays for access to the voice and or data services. For these purposes a user s ad viewing account would be associated with their communications service provider account by telephone number account number or otherwise so that the user s credit could be correlated with the user s account at the communications service provider .

The user may specify the type and form of advertisements the user is interested in viewing in the user s profile. The user may be presented with a menu of options to select advertisement categories. For example options for the types of goods and services for which the user wishes to view advertisements may include categories of goods and services such as household appliances clothing toiletries stationary etc. and may further include subcategories such as children s wear men s wear or ladies wear for clothing and even further subcategories within each subcategory. Categories and subcategories may be as general or as specific as the advertising agent desires to make available. Users may also be given the option to choose one or more formats in which they wish to view advertisements. The formats may include any electronic means available for communicating information to the user at the communication device including but not limited to SMS webpages audio video interactive video or Flash technology or e mail. A user may for example wish to receive e mail notification pointing him or her to a webpage to view the advertisements. The webpage may be customized to the user s preferences. The user may also wish to avoid audible advertisements because the user may be planning to view the ads in a public area where others may be disturbed or may not wish to receive streamed video because the user tends to view ads when in an area served by a slower data network. These preferences may be configured and stored in the user s profile.

In addition to format preferences the user may specify one or more addresses for receiving advertising data. For example for SMS advertising messages a telephone number is provided for advertisements sent by e mail an e mail address if advertising data is to be transmitted from the agent to the communication device over a wireless network but not packaged as e mails or other such message formats the profile may include address information for the communication device itself such as an IMEI or MAC address.

The user profile may also be configured to store a list of the user s contacts to which the user may wish to forward ad meeting invitations or advertisements. The addition of recipient contacts to a user s profile may be carried out in an open method in which the user may enter the contact address e.g. an e mail address or phone number of any recipient or in a closed method in which the user is only permitted to add as recipient contacts other subscribers of the advertising service. The addition of a recipient contact to a user profile may also require the explicit consent of the recipient contact. The addition of recipient contacts to the user s profile may be managed in a manner similar to those known in the art for managing contact lists or friends lists in social networking systems.

In order to further personalize the advertisement viewing sessions the user may be prompted to indicate where he or she prefers to shop whether it be online or in person. The user may be presented with fields to specify the name and or location of the shopping centres frequented and the brands or merchants for whom the user would like to see advertisements. The user may even indicate an intention to shop in a given geographic area on a specific date or range of dates for a specific item and that he or she is willing to dedicate a specified advertisement viewing session to that endeavour so that the advertising agent may deliver advertisements related to that shopping event for the specified advertisement viewing session.

The communication device is provided with a calendar application which is a PIM application that upon execution provides a graphical user interface GUI for the user to create and store calendar items. Calendar items represent events such as meetings and appointments. A calendar item typically comprises a collection of data about an event such as the subject date time location and participants of the event and optionally a reminder time for the event and is stored in a calendar store at the communication device . In some embodiments the calendar store may be synchronized with the host system . Furthermore the calendar events discussed herein dedicated to advertisement viewing sessions may be synchronized with the advertising agent or the communications service provider to provide a backup for the communication device . Calendar items are viewed using a calendar view in the calendar application. Calendar applications therefore serve a function of a conventional agenda or planner by keeping track of scheduled events and may have additional functionality examples of which are described herein.

In one embodiment where existing PIM applications such as Microsoft Outlook and IBM Lotus Notes are to be used to schedule and deliver advertisement viewing sessions an Ad Meeting client application may be installed to facilitate the scheduling and delivery of advertisement viewing sessions. The Ad Meeting client application may be a standalone application invoked when a scheduled calendar event begins or may be an applet or plug in configured to work with the existing PIM applications. The Ad Meeting client may be integrated with PIM applications loaded during manufacture or installed later at the discretion of the user.

Upon installation of the Ad Meeting client the user may be prompted to register with advertising agents if he or she have not already done so and or set up Ad Meeting client profile preferences as described above. In setting up the Ad Meeting client preferences the user may identify which advertising agents with whom the user has registered if the client is not already configured with this information and may indicate whether to allow exchanges of data with the advertising agent servers or the communication service provider to keep both the Ad Meeting client and the advertising agent servers up to date with any changes made to the user s preferences. Based on the information supplied by the user upon registration with the advertising agent the advertising agent may to push information to all of the Ad Meeting clients on a user s communication device without the user having to take any action.

The Ad Meeting client facilitates the launch of applications required to play the advertisements at a scheduled ad meeting time or may play the advertisements itself The client may also facilitate the collection of feedback from the user for transmission to the advertising agents to ensure that the advertisements were viewed and that the user is credited for the time spent viewing the advertisements or the number of advertisements viewed. The client may also permit users to create calendar items for ad meetings and to send ad meeting requests to advertising agents . Information about the number of credits remaining in a user s communications service provider account may be pushed directly from the communications service provider to the communication device .

When the user invokes the calendar application the calendar application may initially display a default calendar view of events scheduled for that day week or month or may simply list upcoming events. provides an example of a calendar day view displayed on a display of a communication device . In the calendar view stored calendar items for events that are scheduled to take place within a time period displayed within the calendar view 8 00 a.m. to 5 00 p.m. in the example shown in are displayed on the display . Selection of a calendar item in the calendar view results in the display of the particulars of that event. The content of a calendar view or any calendar view may extend beyond the displayable area of the display . For example the calendar view of does not show any calendar events past 5 00 p.m. The communication device may be provided with one or more user interface subsystems such as a scroll wheel track ball trackpad or touchscreen configured to receive user commands to scroll through the content of the view so that upon detection of an instruction to pan or scroll through the content of the view other parts of the view are visible on the display.

The user may make selections in the calendar view using the interface subsystem . For example the user may invoke a context menu when in the calendar view . As shown in a context menu is shown overlaying the calendar view . The context menu lists a number of options selectable for configuring the calendar view or for creating new calendar events. One option that may be provided in the context menu is the creation of a New Appointment which when invoked causes the calendar application to open a new view for the user to enter data pertaining to a new calendar appointment. A further option may be a New Ad Meeting which when invoked provides a new view for scheduling an ad meeting as described below.

A method of creating and storing new ad meeting calendar items will now be described with reference to . Once the calendar application has been launched the user may invoke a New Ad Meeting command. The communication device detects this command to create a new ad meeting at in . At in response to the command the calendar application presents a new graphical user interface comprising an ad meeting editing view as shown in . This new ad meeting view has fields for user entry of ad meeting details such as the subject the advertisement agent how the ad meeting request should be sent by what media or in what format the advertisements should be delivered start and end times duration the shopping destination if any the anticipated shopping date if any and the number of credits allocated to the ad meeting defined in the ad meeting editing view . The editing view may also include fields for other data typical of calendar events such as whether the event is to be marked as private in the user s calendar and whether a reminder should be issued to the user in advance of the actual start time of the ad meeting.

Returning to the calendar application receives the ad meeting details as selected or entered by the user or alternatively as received from the advertising agent at . In one embodiment the user may populate some or all of the fields through . For example the user may populate the subject field by selecting an entry from a context menu of options identifying different categories of ad meeting types such as Ad Meeting General Ad Meeting Shopping Trip Specific Ad Meeting Location Specific or Ad Meeting Focus Group . The nomenclature used to describe these various categories may of course vary the category names may reference one or more of the categories or subcategories of goods and services the user may have previously identified as being of interest in the user s profile. Thus the options presented in this context menu may be pushed down to the communication device from the advertising agent . Alternatively the user may enter a descriptor or keyword as the subject and then invoke a search feature that queries the advertising agent for a suitable ad meeting category. For example if the device detects entry of a character string such as shoes in the subject field the device may initiate a search for example by transmitting a query with the character string to the agent . The device may then receive from the agent a list of categories and subcategories from which the user can choose such as children s shoes ladies shoes and athletic shoes . In other embodiments the subject of the ad meeting may be automatically determined by the advertising agent according to one or more factors such as time of day or geographic location of the user as determined by the location of the communication device or according to other options entered in the new ad meeting view . For example a specific shopping date is specified the subject field may be automatically populated with Ad Meeting Trip Specific . The advertising agent may refer to the shopping destination defined in the destination field to determine which ads to transmit to the communication device that are relevant to the specified destination rather than to one specific product or type of product.

Where the user registers with more than one advertising agent the user may specify which advertising agent they wish to schedule an ad meeting with in the Ad Agent field . The user may select from a menu of options listing the advertising agents with which they have registered.

Where more than one messaging account is associated with the communication device for example a work related e mail account a home related e mail account SMS and so on the user may also specify in the send ad meeting request field which messaging account is to be used to send the ad meeting request by selecting from a menu of messaging functions available on the communication device . The recipient of the ad meeting request created in this view will be the advertising service . In still other embodiments the user may elect to invite one or more of the user s contacts to participate in the ad meeting although these other contacts may be expected to view advertisements on their own communication devices.

The media or format in which the advertisements are to be delivered for the ad meeting may be specified in the field . The format may be specified by the user. For example the user may wish to receive advertisements in the form of SMS messages if he or she intends to view the advertisements of that meeting on a mobile communications device whereas he or she may wish to receive video advertisements if they intend to view the advertisements of that meeting on their personal computer or while travelling on public transit and listening to the advertisements using earphones. As noted above the data populating the fields through may be provided by the advertising agent . In one embodiment data may be automatically provided by the communication device or the client on the device or the advertising agent may transmit data to populate the fields while a new ad meeting is being created. In an alternate embodiment some information such as the media or format type may not be specified at the communication device at all but may be configured by the advertising agent for example based on other parameters such as the subject start or end times or other information relating to the ad meeting.

The user may specify one or more of the start and end times the duration and the credit value associated with the ad meeting. While the user may specify the duration and the start and end times of the ad meeting at least some of these parameters may be determined by a value entered in the credit field . For example the user may wish to book an ad meeting that will earn the user credit units. The user may specify a start time and the credit value and based on this the communication device may calculate the duration and end time of the ad meeting required to meet this credit value. Alternatively the user may enter a combination of at least two of start time end time and duration and from these values the communication device may calculate the equivalent credit value and populate the credit field . Since the user may wish to earn credits in order to maintain or enhance the communications service offered by the communications service provider the user may have a target credit amount that he or she wishes to earn so may wish to enter a fixed credit value before entering any further parameters for the new ad meeting in the interface . Time as used herein may refer only to a time of day but may also mean a date and time. 

In other embodiments the credit value associated with an ad meeting may vary according to other factors besides time or duration. For example some ad meetings may consist only of the user passively viewing video ads and clicking confirmation buttons displayed on the communication device display to confirm that he or she did view the ads after one or more ads is played on the device . Other ad meetings may comprise more involvement on the part of the user an ad meeting may require participation in a focus group in which the user answers questions for the purpose of market research. Participation in these types of ad meetings may entitle the user to more credit than the credit earned for passively viewing video advertisements for the same duration.

The user may also schedule recurring ad meetings as with regular calendar events. However the user may have the option of deferring or rescheduling recurring ad meetings as described below.

Where the user wishes to view advertisements for the purposes of a specific shopping trip the user may have the option of specifying the shopping destination and the anticipated date for the shopping trip as shown in . The user may even be provided a field to specify what the user will be shopping for on that trip not shown . The information in the new ad meeting event once provided to the advertising agent allows the advertising agent to further personalize the advertisement viewing session for the user to the benefit of both the user and the advertisers.

Returning again to once the fields of the new ad meeting GUI have been populated with the appropriate information at the information may be saved for example in response to a Save command received by the communication device as a new ad meeting event at . In response to this command the ad meeting details may be saved as a calendar item in the calendar store at the communication device and an ad meeting request may be transmitted to the advertising agent identified in the ad meeting event at . The ad meeting request may include information that uniquely or quasi uniquely identifies the ad meeting. The ad meeting identifier may for example be the user s identifier combined with the date and time the ad meeting request was created. The calendar item may comprise the ad meeting identifier generated by the communications device and which may or may not be viewable by the user in the calendar item view. If the advertising agent does not already store information on the address to which advertising data is to be provided to the user the ad meeting request may include an address to which the advertising data is to be sent. The new ad meeting GUI is then closed and the user may be returned to the calendar view of or another view at . When a calendar view such as the view of is displayed a calendar item that comprises an ad meeting event may be displayed to show the advertising agent s logo or some other indicia indicating that the calendar event is an ad meeting event. In another embodiment the ad meeting details may not be stored in the same manner as a calendar event on the device the ad meeting events may be stored in a separate data store. However if the ad meetings are stored in the calendar store they are conveniently retrievable and displayable by the calendar application together with regular calendar events.

The user may modify the details of a scheduled ad meeting in a similar manner that a regular calendar event would be modified. For example details of an ad meeting may be modified by selecting the ad meeting calendar item to be modified in the calendar view such that the details of the calendar event are displayed an example of which is shown in . The user may make changes to modifiable fields as desired then invoke the Save command to save the modifications. The device may then send an update to the advertising agent before returning to the calendar view.

When an ad meeting request is received by the identified advertising agent the advertising agent may record the scheduled ad meeting with the user s information. The advertising agent may transmit an acknowledgement of the meeting to the communication device or to the specified address to confirm that the ad meeting event will proceed. The acknowledgement may comprise the ad meeting identifier that may be used as a reference number by the advertising agent to query its database for information on the ad meeting event. If the ad meeting request comprised an identifier the ad meeting identifier transmitted by the advertising agent may be the same identifier although the agent may generate and transmit its own identifier for the ad meeting. At some time prior to the scheduled ad meeting the advertising agent may push advertisement data such as the selected advertisement materials or a link to the selected advertisement materials to the communication device . The data transmitted to the communication device may be transmitted in association with the ad meeting identifier so that the communication device can store the advertising data in association with that ad meeting identifier. In addition each individual advertisement may be associated with its own identifier which may also be delivered to the communication device .

While the communication device may be configured to receive the advertisement data at the time the ad meeting event is scheduled to begin it is possible that the communication device may be located in a region without voice or data service at that time accordingly the ad meeting client may be configured to receive and store advertisement data delivered to the device in advance of the scheduled time so that the advertisements are available to the user at the scheduled time. Advance delivery and storage of advertisements may not be available for all formats of advertising for example some video may not be downloadable as a single file to the communication device but rather must be streamed to the communication device at the scheduled time.

The advertising agent may select the advertisements to be viewed by the user by matching the user s preferences as indicated in the user s profile and the details of the scheduled ad meeting against the advertisement data provided by advertisers to find suitable matching advertisements for delivery to the communication device . The advertisement or advertisements to be transmitted to the communication device may be randomly or otherwise selected from the matching advertisements the number of advertisements selected will depend on the time allocated for the ad meeting and the time a typical user is estimated to spend viewing each of the selected advertisements.

In addition to users initiating ad meetings advertisers and advertising agents may also invite users to participate in ad meetings. Such ad meetings may be viewed by multiple parties at or around the same time and may allow advertisers to gauge customer interest in the advertised product or service or in the advertiser itself. An advertiser or advertising agent who wishes to schedule such an event the organizer sends electronic invitations to individual users or groups of users. The individuals and groups may be randomly selected from the registered users of the agent or may be registered users identified as likely having an interest in the particular subject matter of the ad meeting. The invitations may be sent to each user by e mail in a manner similar to conventional calendar meeting invitations. A calendar file may be attached in e mails to each invitee for storage in their respective calendar store upon acceptance also in a manner similar to conventional calendar meeting invitations. The calendar application or the ad meeting client may be configured to automatically transmit a response accept or decline once the user has chosen to either accept or decline the invitation. An example of such a calendar item is shown in .

In the example of the invitation is from the advertiser Brand Awareness Forum through an advertising agent identified as Coupon Mania Inc. The details of the ad meeting event shows that Brand Awareness Forum is the organizer of the ad meeting although the invitation may have been sent to the communication device by the advertising agent . In a further embodiment the organizer s logo may be displayed in the calendar item view . Where the advertisements are only to be played at a specified time such as for a focus group requiring participation of all invitees at the same time the Start End Duration and Time Zone fields may be fixed such that the meeting cannot be rescheduled by the user. As in the previous example a credit value is also indicated in the ad meeting event details. The calendar item may also comprise an ad meeting identifier which may or may not be viewable by the user in the calendar item view. As noted above the ad meeting identifier may comprise a unique or quasi unique identifier generated at the communication device or by the agent alternatively the identifier may be provided by the advertiser and provided to the agent for provision to the communication device .

The user may also have the option to invite other users to view an ad meeting that they have initiated or an ad meeting initiated by the advertisers and advertising agents . In one embodiment a context menu of the new ad meeting GUI or calendar item view may include an option to invite other user. Upon selection of this option the device may display a list of contacts from which an invitee may be selected. The contacts may be retrieved from a data store at the communication device or may be retrieved from the advertising agent from the user s profile. This process may be repeated to add as many invitees as desired. Upon returning to the interface fields appear for each invitee as shown in .

Once the new ad meeting event is saved at or once invitees have been added to an existing ad meeting event in addition to a request or update being sent to the advertising agent invitations to the event may be sent to the other invitees. In one embodiment the device may request confirmation that the invitations are to be sent to the other invitees. The invitations may be sent to the invitees via e mail or in another suitable format for transmission and reception of calendar items.

Alternatively an ad meeting for simultaneous viewing by a plurality of participants may be established. In the embodiment outlined in upon selecting an option to schedule a new ad meeting a form similar to the GUI of the ad meeting editing view may be displayed with fields for entry of ad meeting details including a listing of invitees. The fields of the form may be populated including one or more intended invitees at . Once the fields of the form are populated as necessary upon detection of a Done command or other command signifying completion of the form at the ad meeting request is transmitted to the agent and to each of the other invitees at . In a further embodiment only the agent receives the ad meeting request from the communication device and in turn the advertising agent then transmits meeting invitations for the ad meeting to the invitees at . The calendar item stored at the communication device and the invitations transmitted to the other invitees would comprise an identifier for the ad meeting. In still a further embodiment the user accesses a web based interface for the advertising agent and generates the ad meeting request at the server thus the steps and may be carried out at the server .

As with conventional calendar invitations a calendar file may be attached to the e mail messages or other types of messages sent to invitees for storage in their respective calendar stores at their respective communication devices upon acceptance. The calendar application or the ad meeting client of the recipient communication device may be configured to automatically transmit a response accept or decline once the invitee has chosen to either accept or decline the invitation. The invitee s acceptance or refusal of the ad meeting invitation may be transmitted to the sender of the invitation which may be the advertising agent or the sender at the communication device . If the invitee s response is received at the communication device then the communication device may be configured to automatically transmit the acceptance or refusal to the advertising agent so that the advertising agent may maintain a record of the invitees who are expected to participate in the ad meeting.

Where the ad meeting does not have a Start End Duration and Time Zone that cannot be changed the user may have the option to specify that the ad meeting is to be viewed by the user and all invitees collectively the participants simultaneously not shown . An ad meeting to be viewed by all participants simultaneously may not be capable of being rescheduled by any individual invitee. However invitees may propose a new time for the ad meeting and the user would then be able to reschedule the ad meeting as with conventional calendar items and an update would be sent to the advertising agent . Invitees may modify fields that need not be the same for all participants such as whether or when a reminder is desired.

As participants have ad meeting details containing an identical ad meeting identifier recorded by the advertising agent identical sets of advertisements are pushed or otherwise sent to each of the participants communication devices as described below.

In the event that a user attempts to schedule an event for the same time as a previously scheduled event whether shown as busy or tentative the calendar application may determine that there is a conflict and may display a message warning the user of the conflict.

The ad meeting invitation either when composed by the user or received at the communication device may include a reminder time. At a preset time in advance of the event the communication device may display an alert to the user reminding him or her of the upcoming ad meeting event. The reminder may be set at the user s option or it may be automatically included in the invitation. A method for scheduling and rescheduling an ad meeting event is illustrated in . At a reminder time is determined. This time may be set by the user or by the advertising service . Next at the device monitors for upcoming events and reminders. The identified reminder time is compared against the current time at . If the current time is not equal to the reminder time the process may return to the comparison step . If the current time is equal to the reminder time a pop up reminder window may be displayed on the display at . The reminder may be accompanied by other indicia or user interface activity at the communication device such as a flashing LED an audible alarm emitted from the speaker or a kinetic reminder such as a vibration from a vibratory device comprised in the communication device . The reminder window may include a brief description or identifier of the ad meeting event such as the subject advertising agent media and start and end times the reminder may also include user selectable options to Dismiss the reminder Reschedule Cancel the ad meeting or Snooze to be reminded again of the selected item at later time. At the device receives a command resulting from the user selectable options presented in the reminder.

If the command is to Dismiss the reminder the device closes the reminder at and may return the view displayed on the device to a previous screen. If the user selects Reschedule Cancel the ad meeting event item is opened and displayed at the device at so that the user may modify the item as desired for example by altering the start time of the event to begin later or earlier. Alternatively the user may choose to delete the event altogether. If user modifications are received at and a command to save the changes is received at or if alternatively a command to delete the event is received control passes to at which the device determines whether the user has sought to either postpone or delete the ad meeting event. If the new start time is no later than the existing start time the user has not sought to postpone the event the calendar item is stored with the modifications at and the reminder if it is still viewable is closed and the display on the communication device may return to a previous screen at . However if the new start time is later than the old start time or a delete command is received the device may then determine whether the user is permitted to do this at this time. As discussed above the user may be required to maintain a specified credit balance in order to be able to continue using the communication device on the communication service provider s network so a credit level below a certain threshold may merit a warning to the user.

Thus at the device determines whether the number of credits held by the user is less than a predetermined threshold. The predetermined threshold may vary depending on the user s command. For example to discourage deletion of ad meeting events the user may only be permitted to delete the event if the user s credits are at least at a first level but if the user is merely postponing the event the user may only be permitted to delete the event if the user s credits are at least at a second level that is lower than the first level. Alternatively the predetermined threshold is fixed regardless what the user s actions may be.

If the user has at least the minimum level of credits then the calendar item is stored with the modifications or deleted at and the process may terminate at as above. If the user has fewer credits than the threshold value the device may issue a warning to indicate that the user is low on credits at . The device may then await a further user command or provide the user with options at . If the user does select an option at then if the user instructs the device to proceed with the modification or deletion this is carried out at as above. If however the user chooses to reschedule the ad meeting the calendar item is opened again for editing at . The user may alternatively cancel the modifications also resulting in the process terminating at .

Selection of the Snooze option at causes the display of a snooze time on the display . In one embodiment a default snooze time of 5 minutes is automatically selected. Any suitable default snooze time can be set and can be user selectable. The user is presented with the options of accepting the snooze time or changing the snooze time by selection of either an Accept option or a Change Time option. At the device receives the user s option which is evaluated at . If the user selected the Accept option then the device re determines the reminder time at and the process continues from there. If the user wishes to change the amount of time provided for the snooze first the device displays options for modifying the snooze time at and receives the user s command in this regard at . The process then against passes to where the reminder time is recalculated.

Similar functionality may be used if the alert to the user is not a reminder but an alert that the scheduled ad meeting event has started. Again the user may have the option to snooze or postpone the ad meeting event or even to delete it altogether.

Although the functions in described above presumed that comparisons would be handled by the communication device certain activities such as evaluating whether the user s credits were below the specified threshold may be carried out at the advertising agent . In a further embodiment any changes or deletions to a scheduled ad meeting event may be transmitted to the advertising agent for prior approval.

Selection of the Reschedule Cancel option may cause the ad meeting event item to be opened for editing at . However the device may first determine whether the number of credits remaining in the user s account is at least equal to a predetermined minimum value at . If the device does not store information about the user s credits locally this may be determined by transmitting a query to the advertising agent and receiving a response from the agent concerning the user s credits. The agent may transmit the value of the user s credits to the device so that the device may determine whether the credits are at least equal to the predetermined minimum or else the agent may transmit a response indicating whether the user s credit is at least equal to the predetermined minimum. If the user does have at least the minimum amount of credits then the calendar item is opened for editing or for deletion at . The user may then modify the calendar item as desired at . After such modification of the desired fields the device detects a Save command invoked by the user at or a Delete command if the user wishes to delete the ad meeting event altogether. At the device either saves the modified ad meeting event item or deletes it then closes the ad meeting announcement window if it is still open then returns to the previous screen at .

If the user is determined at to have fewer credits than the minimum amount a warning to indicate that the user is low on credits may be displayed at . The user may then invoke a command at either choosing to continue with rescheduling or cancelling the ad meeting or to view the advertisements. The command is detected and evaluated at . If the user opts to continue with rescheduling or cancelling the ad meeting event the calendar item is opened for editing of deletion as described above and the remainder of the process follows the branch of to . If the user elects to View Ads Now and not reschedule or cancel the ad meeting event at the ad meeting window announcement is closed and an ad viewing application is launched.

Selection of the Snooze option at causes the display at of a snooze time on the display . In one embodiment a default snooze time of 5 minutes is automatically selected. Any suitable default snooze time can be set and can be user selectable. The user is presented with the options of accepting the snooze time or changing the snooze time by selection of either an Accept option or a Change Time option. At the device receives the user s option which is evaluated at . Selection of the Accept option results in the closure of the ad meeting announcement window at and calculation of the new ad meeting time at based on the current time and the snooze time accepted. The process then returns to the comparison step . Selection of the Change Time option results in the display of a submenu of user selectable snooze times at . Following receipt of a user selection of one of the reminder times at the ad meeting announcement window is closed at and a new ad meeting time is calculated .

When the ad viewing application is launched for a scheduled ad meeting advertisements or links to advertisements pushed to or cached on the communication device for the ad meeting are run i.e. rendered and displayed played etc. by launching the appropriate application either within the ad viewing application itself or separately. The ad viewing application may obtain from the ad meeting event item the reference number used to identify that ad meeting and then may use that reference number to retrieve from the device s memory any pre stored advertising data intended for the current ad meeting. Alternatively the ad viewing application or the ad meeting client may retrieve the reference number from memory of from the ad meeting event item and then transmit a request to the advertising agent comprising the reference number to initiate transmission of advertising data from the advertising agent to the communication device . Even if the advertising data is stored in memory the ad meeting client may still transmit a message to the advertising agent comprising the reference number to indicate to the advertising agent that the user has begun to view the advertisements.

If other applications are invoked to view advertising content these applications may be invoked independently of the ad viewing application for example a web browser or movie player may be launched to access non advertising resources. These applications may also be configured to provide users with the option of commencing an ad meeting event. For example the application may include selectable options so that when the application is launched the user is presented with the option of commencing the next scheduled ad meeting event even if it is not scheduled to occur yet or to commence a new ad meeting event on an ad hoc basis. If a new ad meeting event is created the user may be required to specify the types and form of advertisements and what subject matter is preferred although this information may be obtainable from the advertising agent .

The ad viewing application may provide the user with the option of sorting or filtering the advertisements intended for the ad meeting by product or service type merchant or location so that the user may view the advertisements of greatest interest to him or her first. As the advertisements are displayed or viewed the ad viewing application may automatically track and record how much time the user has spent viewing each advertisement and which and how many advertisements were viewed. This information may be recorded by the ad viewing application in association with the individual identifiers associated with each advertisement. Alternatively or additionally the user may be required to provide feedback at various instances throughout the ad meeting to verify their active participation in the ad meeting. For example where the advertisements are in the form of SMS messages or e mails the user may be required to send a generic reply for each advertisement to confirm that the message was at least opened on the user s device. The reply may be automatically configured to include an identifier or reference number so that the reply can be confirmed by the advertising agent as a reply to a particular advertisement from a particular ad meeting Where the advertisements are in the form of webpages the user may be required to scroll through content and click on a button for example near the end of the page before he or she can proceed to the next advertisement or before the ad meeting can be terminated. Clicking the button may cause a form to be submitted to the advertising agent . The form may be configured to comprise identifiers and reference numbers. Where the advertisement is an audio or video file the user may be prompted by the ad viewing application to answer a question which is then recorded by the ad viewing application in association with the particular advertisement and the ad meeting reference number. The ad viewing application through the ad meeting client may then transmit the collected information responses and feedback to the advertising agent along with the associated identifiers and reference numbers so that the user may be credited for viewing the advertisements. The transmission of collected information may be carried out at certain points such as every time the ad viewing application is closed at predetermined intervals of time for example every evening or after a predetermined number or minutes worth of advertisements have been viewed. As noted above different types and formats of advertisements may be awarded different numbers of credits. Also different limitations may be placed on credits earned in a given way. As an example credits earned by viewing SMS advertisements may only be applied to the user s account to obtain free text messaging.

The ad viewing application may also provide the user with the option of inviting another user to view a particular advertisement regardless of whether the other user is registered with the related advertising agent or whether the other user has installed an ad meeting client. The invitation may be an automatically generated e mail message containing an identifier of the advertisement or the reference number of the ad meeting. The user may add a personalized message in the invitation to the other user. The user may also save or mark any given advertisement for further review or reference at a later time and may have the option to view related advertisements.

In further embodiment while viewing ads in an ad meeting the user may utilize the ad viewer application to pause or stop his or her review of advertisements and at later time return to the advertisements to continue reviewing them. To accomplish this at the device the advertising agent may transmit a playlist of advertisements to be played in a given ad meeting. The ad viewer application may then use the playlist to track the user s process through the advertisements. Turning to a method for pausing and resuming an ad meeting is described. During the course of an ad meeting in which the device continues to display advertisements to the user the device receives a command to temporarily stop advertisement viewing at . The user may then be presented with a dialog box or window having the options of pausing the ad meeting terminating the ad meeting or scheduling the continuation of the ad meeting at .

Where the user selects the Pause option advertisements and their playback continue to be paused and a window is displayed with a control to allow the user to either resume playback at a later time or to reschedule the continuation of the playback at . After pausing the user may switch tasks on the device to another function for example the user could pause to respond to e mail or to make a telephone call. After pausing the user may invoke a further command at . At the command is evaluated by the device . If the user command is to Resume playback then the window is closed and the ad viewer application continues to play back the advertisements in the ad meeting at .

If the user wishes to reschedule the ad meeting and continue it later either after pausing or after the temporary stop at the communication device determines whether the user s account has at least the minimum amount of credits at . This may be carried out as described above and may involve communication with the advertising agent . If the user s credits exceed the threshold value then at the calendar application is launched so that the user may edit the ad meeting event item with a new time at . The ad meeting event item may retain the same reference number it was previously given by the advertising agent . At the communication device receives a save command and saves the modifications then closes the calendar application at . The communication device may then close the ad viewer application if it is still executing although the ad viewer application may compute the additional credits the user may have earned for the partial completion of the ad meeting and have that data transmitted to the advertising agent at . In a further alternative no credits are added to the user s account until the entire ad meeting has been completed. When the user wishes to resume the ad meeting he or she may invoke the ad viewer application and select the ad meeting from a user interface within the ad viewer application the ad viewer application may then query the playlist to determine which advertisements have yet to be shown to the user.

If the user s credits do not exceed the threshold value then at a warning is issued to the user cautioning that the user s credits are low. At the device then receives a further command from the user which is evaluated at . If the user invokes a Resume command the ad viewer application returns to displaying the various advertisements in the ad meeting at . If the user still wishes to continue later then the process moves to as described above.

The user may also wish to Terminate the ad meeting at various points in the process at and . If the user wishes to terminate the ad meeting at or the device first determines whether the user s account has at least the required threshold number of credits at . If the user s account does have at least the threshold number then the process terminates. The ad viewer application may determine the number of credits earned by the user or may report the advertisements viewed by the user to the advertising agent via the ad meeting client at . If however the user s account does not have the threshold number of credits a warning may be issued to the user at and a further user command in view of the warning is received at . The command is evaluated at . If the command is to Resume then the ad viewer application returns to displaying advertisements in the ad meeting at . If the user elects to terminate anyway the process proceeds to described above. If the user elects to continue viewing advertisements later the process moves to also described above.

The user may also initiate ad hoc ad meetings by creating a new ad meeting as described above with reference to selecting a start time of Now . If the user selects Current Location for the shopping destination field the communication device will provide the advertising agent with its current location using either GPS or other locational technology or by providing information about a fixed location for example an address supplied by the user. When the combination of Now for start time and Current Location for shopping destination are selected the shopping date field will be automatically populated with the current date. The advertising agent may presume that the user is actively shopping when a Now Current Location combination is received and may commence sending timely advertisements to the user. The advertisements may also be locationally relevant to the user based on the specified location. For example where the user is in a shopping mall food court at noon and requests an ad meeting the advertising agent may transmit advertisements such as coupons for lunch specials from vendors of the food court that are only valid for that day. The vendor is thereby able to limit the spread of coupons and is better able to target their advertisements while the user receives information that is useful immediately. The advertising agent may also send advertisements for vendors of the shopping mall based on the user s specified preferences.

Whether the ad meeting for a scheduled time is arranged in advance by the user sending a request to the advertising agency or the agency sending an invitation to the user whether for an individual user or a group of invitees for a simultaneously viewed ad meeting or on an ad hoc basis to begin as soon as possible at the user s request a process of conducting the ad meeting may be carried out in accordance with the process shown in . At the ad meeting event is scheduled at both the communication device and the advertising agent . Subsequent to the scheduling at the advertising agent transmits or causes to be transmitted advertising record data to the communication device which is received at . If there are several invitees involved in the ad meeting a similar step may be carried out for each of their respective communication devices as well. The advertising record data may comprise a playlist of advertisements to be played at the communication device during the ad meeting each identified with an advertisement identifier referencing a record in the advertising agent s database . There may be one two or more advertisements listed in the advertising record data. The playlist may be identified with an identifier as well which may be the same as the identifier for the ad meeting itself. The advertising record data may be used by the ad viewing application to determine which advertisement is to be played in what sequence during the ad meeting and to track which advertisements have already been played during the ad meeting. In the case of an ad meeting that was scheduled in advance the advertising record data may be transmitted to the communication device well in advance of the scheduled start time of the ad meeting. If the ad meeting is an ad hoc meeting then the advertising record data is transmitted as soon as practicable once the advertising agent has determined which advertisements are to be delivered to the user. In addition at the advertising agent may transmit advertising data comprising the advertisements themselves as video audio text HTML or other file formats or instructions on retrieving the advertisements. As noted previously not all advertisements may be presented in a format making them easily downloadable in advance by the device . In that case the agent may transmit instructions for retrieving the advertisement at a later time. This advertising data is received by the communication device at and stored in memory at the communication device . If the agent does not transmit advertising data to the device then the process moves to .

The advertisement data may be provided in a previously specified media or format defined in the ad meeting request or in the user s profile at the advertising agent . However in a further embodiment either one of the communication device or the advertising agent may determine at the time of the meeting shortly before the meeting or at the time of receipt of the advertising record data what media or format may be used for the advertisements. For example the communication device may determine at or shortly before the time of the meeting or upon receipt of the advertising record data that it is not in a location where multimedia messages or large volumes of data can be received easily or at all for example because the device is in an area served by an older generation cellular network or because signal strength at the particular location of the device is inconsistent. The communication device may therefore assess the types of media or message transports currently available at that location and may transmit to the advertising agent an identification of a preferred advertisement format or any unavailable formats for advertising data. The advertising agent may then select appropriate advertisements in appropriate formats for transmission to the device and may transmit updated advertising record data as required to reflect any changes in the selected advertisements as a result of the identification of the preferred or unavailable formats.

Next at the ad meeting commences. This step may involve a determination made by each communication device s operating system calendar application which may issue an alert to the user and or by the ad viewer application that the start time for the ad meeting has occurred. The commencement may comprise the ad viewer application launching on the communication device . In the case of the user recommencing or reprising a previously paused or rescheduled ad meeting or in the case of an ad hoc meeting the user may manually launch the ad viewer application by selecting the application for launch at the device . Also in the case of an ad hoc meeting the ad viewer application may automatically launch upon receipt of the advertising record data. Otherwise the ad viewer application may automatically launch at the scheduled time when the operating system or a task manager determines that it is time for the application to launch. At this point the ad viewer application may optionally alert the user to the commencement of the ad meeting and provide the user with the opportunity to pause terminate or reschedule the ad meeting.

The ad viewer application then retrieves the advertising record data at to determine which advertisement is to be played first at the communication device . From the advertising record data the ad viewer application determines the identifier of the first advertisement to be played and at then determines whether the data for that advertisement e.g. the audio video HTML or other file is already stored at the device . If it is the ad viewer application retrieves the advertising data at and plays the advertisement at . If the data is not already at the device then at the device transmits a request for the advertisement to the advertising agent at . The agent receives the request at and responds by transmitting or causing to be transmitted the advertisement data at . The data is received by the communication device at and the device plays the advertisement at . If the advertisement comprises streaming video or other content that must be transmitted to the device while the content is played further repetition of steps to may occur with further requests for data transmitted from the communication device to the agent as necessary.

Once it is determined that the playing of the advertisement is complete at the ad viewer application records completion of that advertisement at . A determination is then made whether the ad meeting is complete meaning that there are no further advertisements to be played according to the advertising record data. If the ad meeting is not complete the ad viewer application identifies the next advertisement to be played at and the process returns to . If the ad meeting is determined to be complete at then a report is transmitted to the advertising agent at . The report may comprise a confirmation that the ad meeting is complete and or a confirmation of which advertisements had been viewed. As noted above if an ad meeting is terminated prematurely a report may still be transmitted to the agent indicating which advertisements had been viewed. The report is received by the agent at and the agent may then proceed to record a credit against the user s account. In the case of a simultaneous viewing of advertisements in an ad meeting initiated by the user the user may receive additional credit once the agent receives confirmation that the other invitees had also viewed the advertisements delivered during the ad meeting.

Some advertisement media are easily measured in terms of time. For example a focus group meeting which may involve one or more of video voice or messaging may be measured according to the length of the meeting as may a electronic chat or instant messaging session a video or audio file can be measured according to the length of playback. The ad viewer application can assess whether such an advertisement viewing is complete by comparing the length of time spent at the communication device playing back the advertisement against a recorded duration of the advertisement. If credit is awarded to a user based on the minutes of advertising viewed by the user it is easy to compute the credit for such media. Other media such as SMS webpages and e mail may be useful as advertising formats but they do not correspond directly to a measure of time it may take some users longer to read a message than others with the same advertising impact. Credit may be awarded to users on a per unit basis i.e. for each SMS or e mail read and confirmed to have been read by the user a specific number of credits is awarded. Since individual SMS and e mail messages and the like typically do not consume a great deal of storage space on the communication device the advertising agent may transmit such messages at any time to the communication device for later perusal. Later when an ad meeting takes place the ad viewer application may simply retrieve all such messages from the message stores of the device and present them for the user s perusal. The user may be required to actuate a user interface element to confirm when the message has been read and the message may be required by the ad viewer application to be displayed on the display for a minimum period of time. In that way the ad viewer application can then record that the playback of that advertisement was completed. After the messages have been read they may be deleted unless the user wishes to save them. In a further variant the user may choose to forward the advertisement to another person. Depending on the format of the advertisement either the advertisement itself may be forwarded to the user or a hyperlink or other instruction for retrieving the advertisement may be forwarded. The forwarded content may include the ad meeting identifier thus providing an association between the forwarded advertisement and the user. If the recipient of the forwarded advertisement plays the advertisement an advertising viewer application on the recipient s device may monitor the playback of the advertisement and may notify the advertising agent not only to indicate that the recipient had viewed the advertisement but also that the advertisement had been provided by the first user. The user may then receive extra credit as a result.

The user may also have the option in the ad meeting calendar item menu to use the communication device to scan or photograph a barcode to receive a radio frequency signal or any other means to capture identifying information about a product to populate a preference field in the ad meeting calendar item. The advertising agent could then select advertisements which may include coupons and or other promotional materials relating to that specific product or prepare price comparisons for the user to view in an ad meeting. The combination of product identifying information and the current time and location of an active shopper allows the advertising agent to present the user with advertisements that are pertinent to the user s task at hand. A user who uses a coupon or other advertisement delivered during an ad meeting to make a purchase may submit a proof of purchase to the advertising agent to receive extra credit on the user s account. The submission of the proof of purchase may be done by supplying a copy of the receipt or some identifier printed on the receipt. By capturing the proof of purchases from users the advertising agent may obtain some measure of the effectiveness of the ad meetings. In a further embodiment the user may respond to advertisements shown on the communication device during an ad meeting or during any later playback of the advertisement by actuating an interface element for example a hyperlink displayed while the advertisement is displayed on the communication device to request more information to make a purchase or to record an interest in the subject matter of the advertisement. When the interface element is actuated the advertising agent may be contacted for storage of further information such as the request for further information or the recording of the interest. For this purpose the advertising agent may require the user to log into the service using the password created for that user. In a further embodiment the advertising agent may provide retail services on behalf of the advertisers such that users may access the advertising agent online to purchase the items shown in the advertisements. In that case again the password may be required to provide the user with access for making a purchase.

It will be appreciated that the method steps described herein are carried out by routines or subroutines of the communication device or other devices. Coding of software for carrying out such steps is well within the scope of a person or ordinary skill in the art.

The systems and methods disclosed herein are presented only by way of example and are not meant to limit the scope of this application. Other variations of the systems and methods described above will be apparent to those in the art and as such are considered to be within the scope of this application.

The systems and methods data may be stored in one or more data stores. The data stores can be of many different types of storage devices and programming constructs such as RAM ROM flash memory programming data structures programming variables etc. It is noted that data structures describe formats for use in organizing and storing data in databases programs memory or other computer readable media for use by a computer program.

Code adapted to provide the systems and methods described above may be provided on many different types of computer readable media including computer storage mechanisms e.g. CD ROM diskette RAM flash memory computer s hard drive etc. that contain instructions for use in execution by a processor to perform the methods operations and implement the systems described herein.

The computer components software modules functions and data structures described herein may be connected directly or indirectly to each other in order to allow the flow of data needed for their operations. It is also noted that a module or processor includes but is not limited to a unit of code that performs a software operation and can be implemented for example as a subroutine unit of code or as a software function unit of code or as an object as in an object oriented paradigm or as an applet or in a computer script language or as another type of computer code.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by any one of the patent document or patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyrights whatsoever.

