---

title: Web based desktop environment
abstract: A web based desktop environment is disclosed. The desktop environment comprises a work area configured to display application windows in a web browser operating on a computer server. A resident application bar is displayed adjacent the work area and configured to display only icons for resident desktop applications. A power bar resident desktop application is configured to launch web applications to be displayed in the work area. A task board operating in the power bar resident desktop application comprises a vertically resizable two dimensional window located at a selected edge of the work area. The task board is configured to display a web application icon for each web application launched in the power bar resident desktop application.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08745505&OS=08745505&RS=08745505
owner: Mitel Networks Corporation
number: 08745505
owner_city: Ottawa, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101210
---
A web desktop is a desktop environment that can be embedded in a web browser or similar client application. The web desktop can be used to integrate web applications web services client server applications application servers and applications on a local client into a desktop environment using the desktop metaphor. A web desktop can be a virtual desktop running in a web browser. The applications data files configuration settings and access privileges can reside remotely over the network. This allows much of the computing to take place remotely.

As the desktop metaphor has evolved over the years the abilities of the desktop have advanced. Unfortunately with the advances has come a certain amount of feature bloat. Superfluous and unnecessary features in many types of desktops can require excessive amounts of processor power and memory use. In addition in a web desktop feature bloat can cause an undesirable amount of information to be communicated over a network. When a large number of computing devices connected to a network are using a web desktop this excess communication can be a burden to the network.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. The following definitions are provided for clarity of the overview and embodiments described below.

A desktop environment embedded in a web browser or similar client application is commonly referred to as a web desktop. The web desktop can be a useful tool to integrate web applications web services client server applications application servers and applications on a local client into a desktop environment using the desktop metaphor. A web desktop can be a virtual desktop running in a web browser.

The applications data files configuration settings and access privileges can reside remotely over the network. This allows much of the computing to take place remotely. The use of a simplified web desktop can reduce the amount of information that is communicated over a network. In addition a simplified web desktop can provide a larger work area to display desired applications and reduce the amount of training needed to operate the web desktop.

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention provides an example illustration of a desktop environment embedded in a web browser to form a web desktop . The web desktop is comprised of a work area and a resident application bar . The work area can include a customizable background image if desired.

In one embodiment the resident application bar is used only to display resident icons for resident desktop applications that are configured to operate persistently with the web desktop . In other words the resident desktop applications are launched at the same time as the desktop environment and can only be terminated when the web desktop is terminated. Each resident icon can be limited in functionality. While typical application icons can be used to accomplish functions such as maximizing minimizing moving and resizing a window associated with an icon s application the resident icons can be limited in functionality to the operations of maximizing or minimizing the resident desktop application. Thus each resident desktop application can only be maximized or minimized thereby enabling only a single resident desktop application to be viewed at any one time using the web desktop .

In another embodiment the web desktop can be configured to enable multiple resident desktop applications to be maximized and viewed simultaneously in the work area . For instance if two resident desktop applications are maximized the user may be given the option to split the desktop and view both resident desktop applications. While the resident desktop of does not include scrollbars it is possible to add horizontal or vertical scrollbars to increase the area in which the resident desktop application windows can be rendered.

One resident desktop application that can be launched with the web desktop is the Power Bar resident desktop application . The Power Bar resident desktop application is a web application configured as an application launcher with active task management. Another resident desktop application that can be launched with the web desktop is the Search Sage resident desktop application . The search sage application enables a user to launch applications based on a search of available applications.

The resident icons for the resident desktop applications can be displayed on the resident application bar in any order. Each icon can act as a toggle switch enabling the associated resident desktop application to be maximized or minimized by selecting the resident icon. In the present application resident icons with no background represent a minimized application while resident icons with a dotted background represent a maximized application. This is done for illustrative reasons only and is not intended to be limiting.

The Power Bar resident desktop application is a web application launcher that enables a user to launch multiple web applications in individual windows within the web desktop work area . A web application is a computer software application such as a Java applet that can be hosted in a web browser or similar type of environment. A web application may be written in a language that is supported by a web browser. Popular client side languages include scripting languages such as JavaScript and VBScript. Server side languages such as PERL and PHP may also be used. The web application is typically reliant on a common web browser to render the application executable. Any type of common web browser that supports the web application language may be used.

The web applications can be stored on a server. The server may be a local server a server on a local area network or a server located in a cloud and accessible through an internet connection. The server may be a physical server or a virtual server.

In one embodiment the menu bar can be a standard pull down menu with sub menuing capability. For instance a user may select or mouse over a desired item on a menu bar which can result in a sub menu being displayed enabling the user to select an item on the sub menu. The menus and sub menus can be used to enable the user to open desired web applications. Other graphical interfaces may be used to allow a user to select a desired application. For example selectable applications may be organized using tabs ribbons or another graphical organization instrument.

In one embodiment the Power Bar resident desktop application can further comprise a task board that is configured to enable a user to select and control the display of each window launched using the Power Bar resident desktop application as illustrated in the example of . The task board is a scrollable two dimensional window that contains the application icon of every web application that is launched using the Power Bar resident desktop application. The task board can be located at a selected edge of the work area and configured to display a web application icon for each web application that has been launched in the Power Bar resident desktop application . For instance the task board may be located at the top of the work area . Alternatively the task board may be located at the bottom left side or right side of the work area.

The task board is a collapsible window that enables the work area of the Power Bar resident desktop application to be maximized for displaying graphical interfaces associated with launched web applications. displays an example of the task board in a closed position. An active region on the task board can be activated using a mouse or other type of graphical selection device to display the task board in an opened position as illustrated in .

The task board in the opened position can display a plurality of rows of application icons associated with open web applications in the Power Bar resident desktop application . The icons can be named or numbered to allow a user to easily associate the application icon with its web application. The task board can be vertically resized by a user to display a desired number of rows of application icons. The work area can be displayed below the task board. The work area may also be covered by the task board when the task board is in the opened position.

The display of a window in the work area can be controlled using either controls on the window itself or using the application icon associated with the window. For instance shows that the application icon associated with the Billing web application of is depressed thereby displaying the window for the Billing web application in the work area. The size of the window may be expanded or reduced by selecting a resize option using the application icon associated with the Billing web application. Alternatively the creator of the web application may design the window to have a fixed size.

The application icon can be used to perform a number of actions on its associated web application window such as maximize minimize resize move and so forth. A user can select the desired action by selecting the application icon in the task board . For example in one embodiment a desired action may be selected by right clicking on the application icon. Other selecting means may be used as well such as double clicking using a mouse or tapping or double tapping using a touch screen. Additional selecting means may also be used as can be appreciated.

The task board can include a vertical scrollbar . The vertical scrollbar allows an unlimited number of application icons to be displayed within the task board. While a vertical scrollbar is illustrated a horizontal scrollbar may be used either alone or in conjunction with the vertical scrollbar. In addition other scrolling means such as a touch or swipe on a touch screen may be used as well.

The application icons in the task board can be organized using a desired organizational method. For instance the icons may be displayed based on the order in which a web application is launched alphabetically based on a name of the web application ordered by the amount of time that a web application is used relative to other opened applications ordered based on when the web application was created and so forth. In one embodiment the settings for the task board organization can be made using the menu bar of the Power Bar resident desktop application .

The Power Bar resident desktop application can also be configured to enable multiple copies of the same file or application to be opened. Since the copies are opened at different times they are referred to as different temporal instances of a web application. The task board shows two application icons named EDIT Jon 1 and EDIT Jon 2 . By opening two or more windows of the same application the user can experiment with settings and have the ability of multiple level roll backs even when the application does not support rollback. For instance the first window EDIT Jon 1 may be left untouched with the original settings of a managed object. The second window EDIT Jon 2 can contain new settings that the user is trying out. At any time the user can apply the original settings again from the first window if the new settings did not work as desired.

In one embodiment the task board can be implemented as a scrollable window showing a single row of application icons as shown in the example illustration of . The scrollable window can include a scrollbar that enables the user to view adjacent rows of icons by clicking or selecting up or down on the scrollbar. Implementing the task board as a single row enables the work area to be maximized for viewing open web applications in the Power Bar resident desktop application .

In one embodiment the task board can be implemented in each resident desktop application to enable a user to control a display of web applications operating in the resident desktop application.

Alternatively in another embodiment the task board can be a resident desktop application itself as shown in the example illustration of . In this embodiment the task board can be located adjacent to the maximized resident desktop application. For instance shows the task board resident desktop application located above the Power Bar resident desktop application . The task board may also be located below or to one side of the maximized resident desktop application s .

The task board resident desktop application may be resized by the user. For instance the user can resize the task board resident desktop application by manually resizing the window by dragging a bottom edge up or down using an indicator such as a mouse pointer. The user may also resize the task board using the active region as was previously discussed. When the task board resident desktop application is resized the maximized resident desktop application s can also be resized to enable the task board resident desktop application to adjoin the maximized resident desktop application s . The task board resident desktop application can include a scrollbar to enable a user to scroll through rows of application icons associated with open web applications.

In one embodiment the task board resident desktop application can be configured to show only the web applications that are operating in one or more resident desktop application s that are currently maximized. For instance when the Power Bar resident desktop application has been maximized the task board resident desktop application can display the application icons associated with open web applications operating in the Power Bar resident desktop application.

In another embodiment the task board resident desktop application can be configured to show an application icon for every web application that has been opened in each resident desktop application that is operating on the web desktop. In this embodiment each application icon can be displayed to identify which resident desktop application it is operating in. For instance the application icons may be color coded include a text display or otherwise be encoded to contain information showing in which resident desktop application the web application is operating.

For instance provides an example in which a user may desire to manage a mailbox. The user can enter manage into the text input box . As the user begins to type and enters the letters man in the text input box the Search Sage can identify web applications relating to the letters in a selection box . In this example the related web applications include an Administrator Manage Advanced Mailbox application for users and . When a user selects one of the web applications listed in the selection box then the text in the text input box is completed to include the entire name of the web application. The web application can then be launched in the work area .

In accordance with one embodiment of the present invention a method for operating web applications in a web desktop environment is disclosed as depicted in the flow chart of . The method comprises providing a work area configured to display application windows in a web browser operating on a computer server. A resident application bar is displayed adjacent the work area. The resident application bar is configured to display only icons for resident desktop applications. Resident desktop applications are persistent applications that can only be terminated when the web desktop environment is terminated.

The method further comprises launching web applications with a power bar resident desktop application configured to launch web applications to be displayed in the work area. Web application icons associated with the launched web applications are located in a task board operating in the power bar resident desktop application. The task board comprises a vertically resizable two dimensional window that is located at a selected edge of the work area. The task board is configured to display the web application icon for each launched web application. The task board can include a vertical scrollbar to allow a user to scroll to view additional web application icons. A display of the web applications in the work area can be controlled using the web application icons in the task board.

It is to be understood that the embodiments of the invention disclosed are not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but are extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

