---

title: Memristors with a switching layer comprising a composite of multiple phases
abstract: A memristor with a switching layer that includes a composite of multiple phases is disclosed. The memristor comprises: a first electrode; a second electrode spaced from the first electrode; and a switching layer positioned between the first electrode and the second electrode, the switching layer comprising the multi-phase composite system that comprises a first majority phase comprising a relatively insulating matrix of a switching material and a second minority phase comprising a relatively conducting material for forming at least one conducting channel in the switching layer during a fabrication process of the memristor. A method of making the memristor and a crossbar employing the memristor are also disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08415652&OS=08415652&RS=08415652
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08415652
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100621
---
This invention was made in the course of research partially supported by grants from the U.S. Government. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The continuous trend in the development of electronic devices has been to minimize the sizes of the devices. While the current generation of commercial microelectronics are based on sub micron design rules significant research and development efforts are directed towards exploring devices on the nano scale with the dimensions of the devices often measured in nanometers or tens of nanometers. Besides the significant reduction of individual device size and much higher packing density compared to microscale devices nanoscale devices may also provide new functionalities due to physical phenomena on the nanoscale that are not observed on the microscale.

For instance electronic switching in nanoscale devices using titanium oxide as the switching material has recently been reported. The resistive switching behavior of such a device has been linked to the memristor circuit element theory originally predicted in 1971 by L. O. Chua. The discovery of the memristive behavior in the nanoscale switch has generated significant interest and there are substantial on going research efforts to further develop such nanoscale switches and to implement them in various applications. One of the many important potential applications is to use such a switching device as a memory unit to store digital data.

Memristor switch devices which are often formed of nanoscale metal titanium oxide metal layers employ an electroforming process to enable resistive switching. The electroforming process involves a one time application of a relatively high voltage or current that produces a significant change of electronic conductivity through the titanium oxide layer. The electrical switching arises from the coupled motion of electrons and ions within the oxide material. During the electroforming process oxygen vacancies are created and drift towards the cathode forming localized conducting channels in the oxide. Simultaneously O ions drift towards the anode where they evolve Ogas causing physical deformation of the junction. The gas eruption often results in physical deformation of the oxide such as bubbles near the locations where the conducting channels form. In addition the conducting channels formed through the electroforming process often have a wide variance of properties depending upon how the electroforming process occurred. This variance of properties has relatively limited the adoption of metal oxide switches in computing devices.

In addition in order to be competitive with CMOS FLASH memories the emerging resistive switches need to have a switching endurance that exceeds at least millions of switching cycles. Reliable switching channels inside the device may significantly improve the endurance of the switches.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the embodiments are described by referring mainly to examples thereof. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that the embodiments may be practiced without limitation to these specific details. In other instances well known methods and structures are not described in detail so as not to unnecessarily obscure the description of the embodiments.

Disclosed herein is an electrically actuated device which is equivalently recited herein as a memristor formed of a pair of spaced apart electrodes with a switching material positioned between the electrodes. It should thus be understood that the terms electrically actuated device and memristor are used interchangeably throughout the present disclosure. In any regard the switching layer employed herein is a composite comprising a continuous matrix of a switching non conducting material and discontinuous regions of a conducting material embedded therein. The discontinuous regions form conducting channels within the non conducting matrix during a fabrication process of the memristor as discussed in greater detail herein below. At least one conducting channel may electrically connect the two electrodes.

In one regard therefore the at least one conducting channel is formed in the switching layer without requiring that an electroforming process be performed on the memristor and as such the memristor comprises an electroforming free memristor. The memristor disclosed herein thus does not suffer from some of the drawbacks associated with conventional devices that require an electroforming process to generate conducting channels. In addition the memristor disclosed herein requires a relatively low power to operate because the relatively high voltage or current required to generate the conducting channel required with conventional devices is not necessary. Moreover because the conducting channel of the memristor disclosed herein is formed during the fabrication process the conducting channel may be formed with a relatively greater level of control as compared with conventional devices that employ electroforming operations to form conducting channels. The memristors thus exhibit a greater endurance usually exceeding one million switching cycles.

The memristor discussed herein may be implemented in a cross bar array formed of a plurality of the memristors. In one respect conducting channels in the plurality of memristors may be formed concurrently with each other through the fabrication process discussed herein. As such the conducting channels may be formed in a relatively simpler and faster manner than is possible with conventional fabrication techniques which require the application of a relatively high voltage or current through each of the devices to form the conducting channels. Physical damage that often occurs to devices fabricated with conventional techniques is eliminated in these devices. In addition because the conducting channels are produced under the exact same conditions for all of the devices in the cross bar array through implementation of the fabrication process disclosed herein there is a lower level of variance in the formation of the conducting channels as compared with conventional fabrication techniques. Because of the intrinsic property of the material systems selected in the current technique the conductance channels are also smaller. As such the distributions of ON OFF resistances through the conducting channels and the operation parameters are significantly smaller than cross bar arrays formed through conventional fabrication techniques.

The term singly configurable means that a switch is able to change its state only once via an irreversible process such as an oxidation or reduction reaction such a switch may be the basis of a programmable read only memory PROM for example.

The term reconfigurable means that a switch can change its state multiple times via a reversible process such as an oxidation or reduction in other words the switch may be opened and closed multiple times such as the memory bits in a random access memory RAM .

Micron scale dimensions refer to dimensions that range from 1 micrometer to a few micrometers in size.

Sub micron scale dimensions refer to dimensions that range from 0.1 nanometers to 500 nanometers 0.5 micrometers .

Micron scale and submicron scale wires refer to rod or ribbon shaped conductors or semiconductors with widths or diameters having the dimensions of 0.04 to 10 micrometers heights that can range from a few nanometers to a micrometer and lengths of several micrometers and longer.

In some embodiments a memristor is a two terminal device in which the magnetic flux time interval of applied voltage between the terminals is a function of the amount of electric charge that has passed through the device. However three and four terminal memristors are also known and the teachings disclosed and claimed herein apply to such devices as well.

A crossbar is an array of memristors that can connect each wire in one set of parallel wires to every member of a second set of parallel wires that intersects the first set usually the two sets of wires are perpendicular to each other but this is not a necessary condition .

As used herein the functional dimension of the device is measured in nanometers typically less than 50 nm but the lateral dimensions may be nanometers sub microns or microns. By functional dimension refers to that area between crossing wires of a crossbar that is active. In general the functional dimension is approximately the cross sectional area of the memristor between the two crossing wires or a smaller region inside the cross sectional area.

As used herein the phrase metallic like refers to a phase having a relatively higher electrical conductivity than a matrix in which the phase is embedded. In many embodiments the difference in electrical conductivity between the metallic like phase and the matrix can be on the order of 10or more at a certain temperature.

With reference first to there is shown a perspective view of a memristor according to an embodiment. It should be understood that the memristor depicted in may include additional components and that some of the components described herein may be removed and or modified without departing from a scope of the memristor . It should also be understood that the components depicted in are not drawn to scale and thus the components may have different relative sizes with respect to each other than as shown therein.

Generally speaking the memristor depicted in may be built at the micro or nano scale and used as a component in a wide variety of electronic circuits. For instance the memristor may be used as the basis for memories switches and logic circuits and functions. When used as a basis for memories the memristor may be used to store a bit of information 1 or 0. When used as a switch the memristor may either be a closed or open switch in a cross point memory. When used as a logic circuit the memristor may be employed as bits in a logic circuit that resembles a Field Programmable Gate Array or as the basis for a wired logic Programmable Logic Array. The memristor disclosed herein is also configured to find uses in a wide variety of other applications such as neuromorphic computing and implication logic.

As depicted in the memristor includes a first electrode positioned below a second electrode . In addition the first electrode is in a crossed arrangement with respect to the second electrode such that the first electrode is arranged substantially perpendicularly to the second electrode . However it will be appreciated that in other embodiments the first electrode and the second electrode may be arranged at any non zero angle with respect to each other.

One or both of the first electrode and the second electrode may be formed of metal or semiconductor materials. By way of particular example both of the first electrode and the second electrode may be formed of for instance platinum tungsten gold titanium silver ruthenium dioxide thanium nitride tungsten nitride tantalum tantalum nitride or the like. As another particular example both the first electrode and the second electrode may be formed of doped silicon.

The memristor also includes a switching layer disposed between the first electrode and the second electrode . The switching layer has been shown with dashed lines to indicate that the switching layer may be relatively larger than the first electrode and the second electrode . In other embodiments the switching layer may be relatively smaller than the first electrode and the second electrode . In any event the switching layer is depicted as being formed of a matrix of a resistive or non conducting first phase that is capable of switching and a conducting or metallic like second phase embedded or dispersed in the resistive first phase. The switching material comprising the non conducting first phase may include for instance a transition metal oxide such as tantalum oxide yttrium oxide hafnium oxide zirconium oxide etc. or a metal oxide such as aluminum oxide calcium oxide magnesium oxide etc.

The material of the switching layer may alternatively be formed of ternary or quaternary oxides or other complex oxides such as STO PCMO etc. In other embodiments the material of the switching layer may be formed of nitrides and or sulfides.

The conducting second phase may comprise the same metal that comprises the transition metal oxide or metal oxide of the non conducting first phase layer . For example in the tantalum oxide system the first phase layer may comprise TaO which is essentially non conducting and the conducting phase may comprise TaO where x is greater than or equal to 0 and less than or equal to 1 0 x 1 see . As another example the non conducting layer may comprise TiO also known as stoichiometric titanium dioxide and the conducting phase may comprise a Magnelli phase such as TiO.

The insulating first phase may comprise more than 50 by weight of the total system in order to prevent a totally conducting situation which would no longer act as a memristor. In some embodiments the insulating first phase may comprise more than 90 by weight of the total system. In any event the conducting second phase comprises the balance of the system.

An annealing operation or other thermal forming operation such as heating by exposure to a high temperature environment or by exposure to electrical resistance heating may be employed to form conducting channels . For many systems such as Ta O Hf O Y O and the like electrical resistance heating that generates an elevated temperature is sufficient to form the conducting channels locally inside the cross sectional area. The temperature in the localized region inside the device can be several hundred degrees Celsius up to the eutectic temperatures of the material system which is significantly lower than those found in the bulk material phase diagrams due to nanoscale effects.

The phase diagram for the Ta O system is shown in . Inspection of the phase diagram shows a stable oxide phase TaO at about 71.4 at atomic percent oxygen. This non conducting phase is in equilibrium with Ta for oxygen concentrations less than 71.4 at forming a TaOphase. The Ta phase is a conducting phase. So in the Ta O system TaOcomprises the non conducting first phase and Ta O solid solution TaO comprises the conducting second phase.

The phase diagram for the Ta O system indicates that the transition temperature between the TaOphase and the TaOphase is about 1320 C. However it should be noted that this temperature is for the bulk system at nanoscale size the temperature needed for forming the conducting channels is considerably lower depending on the size and geometry of the channels. Moreover localized portions of the device may operate at several hundred degrees due to the current applied during electrical resistance heating. As a consequence a large voltage is not needed to initiate operation as may be required for prior art devices. Rather the forming voltage is similar to the normal operating voltage. For example if the normal operating voltage is 1 V there may be a variance of 0.2 V the first operating voltage on the as prepared devices is within this range. In this case the device can be viewed as electroforming free since the electroforming step is indistinguishable from normal operation. In an embodiment a metastable insulating phase TaOmay form instead of TaO but this does not change the principle described here.

In the Hf O system shown in HfOis the non conducting first phase and the Hf O solid solution is the conducting second phase. The HfOphase is about 67 at oxygen.

In the Y O system shown in YOis the non conducting first phase and Y O solid solution is the conducting second phase. The YOphase is about 60 at oxygen.

Thus a discontinuous relatively conducting second phase is dispersed in a continuous relatively non conducting resistive first phase . The formation of the combined phases may be achieved using a sputtering process wherein the composition of the sputtering source is close to the desired film composition. For example in the case of the Ta O system a TaOcomposition close to the TaOcomposition 71.4 at may be employed. By close is meant within about 20 at of the non conducting composition or greater than about 51 at oxygen and less than 71.4 at oxygen for the Ta O system. During sputtering Omay be in the sputtering environment. If present the resulting film or switching layer may have more oxygen content than the sputtering source. If Ois absent the resulting film may have less oxygen content than the sputtering source.

Sputtering may be performed in an argon environment. Depending on the sputtering conditions a two phase system may or may not be formed. If the two phase system is formed then the film comprises the discontinuous conducting second phase dispersed in the continuous first phase . If the two phase system is not formed then the film that is formed may be amorphous. However upon the first application of an electric field localized heating takes place and the two phase system is formed with the discontinuous second phase dispersed in the continuous first phase . In either case the first application of the electric field forms the conducting channels . The sputtering deposition conditions control the morphology of the film and may require some experimentation. The typical variables are the substrate temperature the gas environment the deposition rate etc. However for persons skilled in this art such experimentation is not considered undue based on the disclosure herein.

As shown in the conducting channel is formed in the switching layer at a junction between the first electrode and the second electrode . While one conducting channel is shown and described herein it will be appreciated that there are a number of such conducting channels that form during the heating process some of which may extend from the first electrode to the second electrode and others of which may terminate at one or both ends within the matrix comprising the non conducting first phase .

The conducting channel is formed through a localized atomic modification in the switching layer caused by the annealing or other thermal forming process. By way of particular example in which the switching material comprises TaOand the conducting phase comprises Ta O solid solution during the thermal forming process regions of the conducting phase coalesce to form at least one conducting channel .

In addition one or more conducting channels are configured to form in the areas containing the Ta O solid solution and these conducting channel s are responsible for the subsequent switching in the memristor . Without subscribing to any particular theory it appears that one channel usually becomes the dominant path. During the switching operation the oxygen or metal atoms are configured to move in an electric field conducted through the conducting channel s to open or close a gap inside the conducting channel s which may be read to determine whether the electrically actuated apparatus is in an ON or OFF state.

The conducting channel s are referred to herein as the active region of the memristor . In one regard the conductivity of the conducting channel s may be modulated by applying different biases across the first electrode and the second electrode . Thus the memristor may be reconfigurable based upon the bias applied across the first electrode and the second electrode . In other instances however the switching layer may be formed to be singly configurable.

To determine appropriate oxide systems that may be employed in the practice of the invention an inspection of a selected phase diagram is done. In particular both a conducting region and an insulating region are desired and a composition close to the insulating non conducting region is selected. The composition has less oxygen than the insulating region since compositions in the conducting region have a lower oxygen content. While the conducting composition may be anywhere in the conducting region in some embodiments the conducting composition is close to the composition of the non conducting region as defined above. For example in the TaOsystem where the nonconducting oxide is at 71.4 wt oxygen the conducting composition may be in the range of about 51 at to less than 71.4 at oxygen as described above. In the HfOsystem where the non conducting oxide is at about 67 at oxygen the conducting composition may be in the range of about 47 at to less than 67 at oxygen. In the YOsystem where the non conducting oxide is at about 60 at oxygen the conducting composition may be in the range of about 40 at to less than 60 at oxygen.

The same considerations apply for systems other than binary oxides such as complex oxides sulfides and nitrides.

With reference now to there is shown a perspective view of a crossbar array employing a plurality of the memristors shown in according to an embodiment. It should be understood that the crossbar array depicted in may include additional components and that some of the components described herein may be removed and or modified without departing from a scope of the crossbar array .

As shown in a first layer of approximately parallel first electrodes is overlain by a second layer of approximately parallel second electrodes . The second electrodes of the second layer may be roughly perpendicular in orientation to the first electrodes of the first layer although the orientation angle between the layers may vary as described above. The two layers and form a lattice or crossbar with each second electrode of the second layer overlying all or most of the first electrodes of the first layer and coming into close contact with each first electrode of the first layer at respective junctions which represent the closest contact between two of the first and second electrodes and . The crossbar array may be fabricated from micron submicron or nanoscale electrodes depending on the application.

As also shown in the switching layer extends between the first layer and the second layer . As discussed in greater detail herein below respective conducting channels not shown are formed in multiple ones of the memristors concurrently during the thermal forming process.

Although the first electrode and the second electrode have been depicted as having rectangular cross sections in it should be understood that the first electrode and or the second electrode may have other cross sectional shapes such as circular oval hexagonal triangular trapezoidal etc.

Turning now to there is shown a cross sectional side view of a pair of memristors and according to an example. As shown therein a first memristor is depicted as having an ON conducting channel formed in the junction between the first electrode and the second electrode . The conducting channel is construed as being ON because the conducting channel extends from the first electrode to the second electrode and thus there is a relatively low resistance to electrical energy supplied between the first electrode and the second electrode of the first memristor .

As also shown in a second memristor is depicted as having an OFF conducting channel formed in the junction between the first electrode and a second electrode of the memristor . The conducting channel is construed as being OFF because the conducting channel does not extend from the first electrode to the second electrode . Instead a gap exists in the conducting channel and thus there is a relatively higher resistance to electrical energy supplied between the first electrode and the second electrode of the second memristor .

Turning now to there is shown a flow diagram of a method for fabricating a memristor according to an embodiment. It should be understood that the method depicted in may include additional steps and that some of the steps described herein may be removed and or modified without departing from a scope of the method .

At step one or more first electrodes are provided. The first electrode s may be provided through any suitable formation process such as chemical vapor deposition sputtering etching lithography etc. In addition when the method is implemented to form a cross bar array a plurality of first electrodes may be provided as a first layer of first electrodes for instance as depicted in .

At step a switching layer formed of the composite comprising the continuous matrix of the switching material and the non continuous conducting material is provided upon the first electrode s . According to an example the non conducting phase and the conducting phase are co deposited such as through sputtering pulse laser deposition atomic layer deposition etc. to form the switching layer . According to another example the conducting phase is interspersed into the non conducting phase prior to deposition of the matrix of materials on the first electrode s . According to a further example the non conducting phase is grown on the electrode s and the conducting phase is deposited on the conducting phase during the growth process. In this example the non conducting phase may be grown through use of for instance metal catalyzed growth from vapor liquid or solid phase precursors growth from a chemical solution spin coating or rapid deposition of material vaporized from a solid source such as by sputtering or ALD Atomic Layer Deposition .

In any event the amount of conducting phase dispersed in the nonconducting phase may be varied to control the formation of the conducting channel s .

Following step a top surface of the switching layer may be planarized for instance by chemical mechanical polishing to create a relatively smooth surface.

At step one or more second electrodes are formed on the switching layer . The one or more second electrodes may be provided through a formation process such as E beam evaporation chemical vapor deposition sputtering atomic layer deposition etching imprint lithography etc.

At step a heating operation or other thermal forming operation such as an annealing operation is performed on at least the switching layer and may include the first electors and the second electrodes to cause one or more conducting channels to form in one or more junctions of the first electrode s and second electrode s . As discussed above the application of heat to the switching layer causes the conducting material to coalesce into the conducting channels in the switching layer .

One or more parameters of the heating operation may be varied to control formation of the conducting channels in the switching layer . The parameters include for instance temperature duration rate of annealing environmental conditions etc. According to an embodiment the parameters are controlled to cause the conducting channels to have relatively small diameters for instance on the order of a few nanometers. By way of particular example the conducting channels may be controlled to have diameters within the range of about 0.5 to about 100 nm.

Although step has been described as being performed after the second electrode s have been provided it should be understood that the annealing operation may be performed prior the second electrode s being provided.

Through implementation of the method conducting channels may be formed in the switching layer between one or more memristors without requiring that an electroforming operation be implemented to form the conducting channels . In instances where the method is employed to form the conducting channels in multiple memristors the method may also be implemented to concurrently form the conducting channels in the memristors .

What has been described and illustrated herein is an embodiment along with some of its variations. The terms descriptions and figures used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many variations are possible within the spirit and scope of the subject matter which is intended to be defined by the following claims and their equivalents in which all terms are meant in their broadest reasonable sense unless otherwise indicated.

