---

title: User interface for managing medical data
abstract: Techniques for managing patient information accessible by mobile devices are supported. A system may include a central medical information management system that maintains information regarding ongoing treatment of patients. Medical professionals may use mobile devices to access and display the information by way of a user-friendly interface that includes multiple display modes for different types of information reporting and information capture.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08326651&OS=08326651&RS=08326651
owner: Medaxion, LLC
number: 08326651
owner_city: Nashville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 182 686 filed May 29 2009.

The present invention relates generally to managing medical data and more specifically to managing medical case and chronology information for one or more medical practices.

Many medical care establishments use and share medical case information between medical professionals. For this purpose medical professionals may use various physical files written displays and electronic systems. For example many anesthesia care locations use a white board to track patients being treated. Many medical professionals also document progress through medical procedures using forms or other paperwork. Such documentation may be used to record events during patient treatment and generate invoices.

In accordance with the present disclosure a user interface for managing medical data is provided which substantially eliminates or reduces disadvantages and problems associated with previous systems and methods.

According to a particular embodiment a handheld apparatus is provided which includes a user interface having a display and capable of receiving user input a wireless network interface coupled to a central medical information management system a memory for maintaining a medical information management application and a practice location and a processor capable of executing the medical information management application. The medical information management application when executed can retrieve electronic information from the medical information management system provide a multiple display modes including a case board display mode and a patient treatment display mode receive user input to select one of the display modes retrieve information from the medical information management system based on the selected display mode and enter the selected display mode using the information retrieved from the medical information management system. The received electronic information includes one or more patient treatment records for patients receiving care at a practice location. Further each of the patient treatment records indicates one of multiple predefined phases of care. The case board display mode has multiple first display sub modes where the case board display mode displays one of the first display sub modes and visual indicators indicate the non displayed first display sub modes. In addition each of the first display sub modes corresponds to a respective predefined phase of care and displays patient tracking records having information from the patient treatment records that correspond to the respective predefined phase of care. The patient treatment display mode has multiple second display sub modes where the patient treatment display mode displays one of the second display sub modes and visual indicators indicate the non displayed second display sub modes. The first one of the second display sub modes displays a case chronology for the selected patient tracking records and permits selection of one of the medical events in the case chronology for updating of a time record associated with the selected medical event.

Particular embodiments provide various technical advantages. These techniques provide wide spread sharing of case information between medical professionals of an anesthesia surgical or other medical team without requiring medical professionals to use a common physical case board. In addition techniques of the present disclosure provide updates to case status as they occur at or near the time of corresponding changes in the field. Moreover case supervisors or other managers no longer need to check a physical case board or physical location such as a holding room or operating room to determine case status.

Particular embodiments provide wide spread access to medical event data such as anesthetic or surgical events thereby sharing information that would otherwise be limited to the few people with physical access to a corresponding paper form for the medical event. Such techniques may also facilitate proactive medical resource and manpower management. These techniques may also enable simultaneous access by other team professionals who may be spread throughout a particular location or even at other remote locations.

Particular embodiments provide case status alerting. These techniques facilitate targeted case status alerting that requires neither a callback nor the multicast of alert messages to all medical professionals. Such techniques also facilitate automatic case status alerting without any requirement that the user actively request case status. Thus important case status information can be sent to appropriate medical professionals allowing them to take appropriate action such as making a necessary physical location visit.

Particular embodiments may facilitate secure authentication and login to a medical information management system. Techniques for secure login can maintain secure access procedures while eliminating or substantially reducing the use of long usernames and passwords that introduce delay and complexity to those seeking access to the system using a mobile device that may have constrained user input capabilities. Such secure login techniques also provide authenticated access to medical professionals through external networks not located at a health care facility.

Particular embodiments may facilitate the entry of patient and case data items. These techniques allow checklist data to be immediately searchable through appropriate information systems. Such techniques also eliminate transcription error associated with paper based patient and case data and alleviate possible legibility issues. Additionally these techniques facilitate the automatic entry of related case items and or identify data elements that are in conflict. Moreover such techniques can present or record data elements that may have been overlooked by a medical professional but were appropriate for the medical care rendered.

Particular embodiments may facilitate assuming case roles and handing off case roles between medical professionals. These techniques accurately record the time associated with case roles and case role handoff. Such techniques may further enable case roles and any subsequent changes to case roles to be communicated to all medical professionals of a team thereby eliminating confusion and any patient care difficulties.

Other technical advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to one skilled in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

Medical professionals can use the medical information and functionality of system to manage one or more cases for a particular medical practice with one or more practice locations. Users of system can include medical professionals and associated staff such as surgeons anesthesiologists other physicians certified registered nurse anesthetists CRNAs hospital management billing personnel medical record managers and any other medical staff. Under appropriate circumstances system may further provide patients access to selected information. According to particular embodiments system may be used to manage information for one or more medical practices. A medical practice is any organization of associated medical professionals and associated personnel such as a group of doctors and support staff with a common specialty that potentially practice at one or more different practice locations a group of doctors and support staff associated with a particular hospital or any other suitable organization of medical professionals. For example an anesthesia practice may include anesthesiologists CRNAs and other support staff that practice at a set of particular medical treatment facilities.

In the illustrated embodiment system includes a number of elements interconnected by various networks including a communications network a wireless telephony network a local area network and a wireless network . Networks and represent communications equipment including hardware and any appropriate controlling logic for interconnecting elements and facilitating communication between these elements. Communications network may include local area networks LANs metropolitan area networks MANs wide area networks WANs any other public or private network local regional or global communication network enterprise intranet other suitable wireline or wireless communication link or any combination thereof. Communications network may include any combination of gateways routers hubs switches access points base stations and any other hardware software or a combination of the preceding that may implement any suitable protocol. For illustrative purposes system is also shown as including other specific types of networks including wireless telephony network local area network and wireless network . The use of these or similar networks facilitate seamless communication between components of system regardless of their geographic location or communication protocols.

As illustrated system includes a wireless telephony network coupled to communications network . Wireless telephony network represents communications equipment including hardware and any appropriate controlling logic for interconnecting elements and facilitating communications by wireless devices. Wireless telephony network may include gateways call managers routers hubs switches access points base stations cellular towers radio networks satellite telephone equipment implementing appropriate protocols for wireless telephony communications. While only one wireless telephony network has been illustrated it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using more than one wireless telephony network. In addition various embodiments may incorporate wireless telephony networks in other networks of system such as for example wireless network .

The illustrated embodiment of system also includes a local area network coupled to communications network . Local area network represents communications equipment including hardware and any appropriate controlling logic for interconnecting elements within a limited network area as compared with for example wide area networks . Local area network may include any combination of gateways routers hubs switches access points base stations and any other hardware software or combination thereof using suitable protocols to support communications. For example local area network may be the established network infrastructure deployed at a particular hospital or other medical facility. While only one local area network has been illustrated it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using multiple local area networks . In addition various embodiments may incorporate local area networks in other networks of system .

System also includes wireless network coupled to communications network . Wireless network represents communications equipment including hardware and any appropriate controlling logic for wirelessly interconnecting elements and facilitating communication between other elements of system . For example wireless network may operate according to one or more of the 802.11 standards promulgated by the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers IEEE . Wireless network may include any combination of gateways routers hubs switches access points base stations wireless telephone systems and any other hardware software or combination thereof. While only one wireless network has been illustrated it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using multiple wireless networks . In addition various embodiments may incorporate wireless networks in other networks of communications network .

These networks interconnect other elements of system including mobile phones a billing system personal computers PCs patient information system mobile devices and a medical information management system . It should be understood that while system is illustrated as including specific types of networks various embodiments may operate using any suitable arrangement and collection of networks that enable appropriate communications.

Mobile phones represent portable hardware and appropriate controlling logic for providing telephony and or advanced data services. For example mobile phones may support voice and data communications. Mobile phones may include smart phones capable of transmitting and receiving multiple forms of media including but not limited to still audio text messages video images and content from disparate services. As illustrated mobile phones may be coupled to wireless telephony network and capable of communicating to other components of system . According to particular embodiments system may use mobile phones to provide alerts or other information to medical personnel.

Billing system represents hardware appropriate controlling logic and data associated with billing for medical services. For example billing system may be a computer server designed to manage billing for a particular medical practice such as an anesthesia practice. Billing system may be network accessible to facilitate communication with other elements of system .

Personal computers PCs represent general purpose computers including appropriate hardware controlling logic and data that may be used to interface with other system components such as billing system patient information system mobile devices and medical information management system . For example PCs may be workstations laptops netbooks tablet computers personal data assistants PDAs or any other suitable computing device. PCs may support a wide variety of operations such as web browsing word processing and managing business data. According to particular embodiments PCs provide access potentially through web based interfaces to information managed by other elements.

Patient information system represents suitable hardware components controlling logic and data for managing patient information such as patient demographic information medical histories and or other relevant medical information such as practice employees and work schedules. For instance patient information system may be embodied in a computer system or a network of computers which are capable of maintaining patient information such as patient identifiers case identifiers surgery types date of birth surgery schedule operating room attending surgeon and or anesthesiologist insurance information medical history and other patient specific information as appropriate for various aspects of a medical practice. Some embodiments of the present disclosure may include a patient information system deployed at a medical practice or other medical care facility while other embodiments may include a global patient information system for maintaining patient information. As illustrated patient information system may be coupled to a network such as local area network to facilitate communication to other elements of system . While only one patient information system is shown it should be understood that various embodiments may include multiple appropriately deployed patient information systems .

Mobile devices represent any suitable portable hardware including appropriate controlling logic and data capable of communicating with remote devices to facilitate management of medical information. For example mobile devices may include but are not necessarily limited to mobile telephones advanced smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs wireless handsets notebook computer systems and tablet computer systems. According to particular embodiments mobile devices include wireless devices with advanced user interfaces such as the APPLE iPhone iPod Touch or iPad.

Medical information management system represents any appropriate combination of hardware controlling logic and data for managing medical information and supporting interactive access to that data from multiple remote and potentially highly mobile devices. For example medical information management system may include a networked server or collection of networked servers or could include in one or more virtual servers capable of acquiring computing resources on demand depending on the dynamically determined needs of the system. Using virtual servers medical information management system could be scaled dynamically based on system requirements and real time usage without limiting operation to a particular physical computer server having fixed computing resources. This could facilitate the scalability efficient operation high availability and cost effectiveness of the system. As illustrated medical information management system couples to networks such as communications network to facilitate communication to other elements of system .

Particular embodiments are designed to operate in a network environment that facilitates the retrieval and presentation of medical data to end users facilitating real time tracking of medical professional activity related to the provision of patient care events tracked at or near in time to the actual provision of patient care provided at a medical facility such as a hospital or other medical care establishment. Systems methods and software exemplified in the present disclosure may increase the coordination of patient care enhance the reliability of medical information and help ensure the accuracy of medical record keeping and billing.

In operation elements of system operate together to perform various medical information management functions including but not limited to maintaining a central unified repository of patient and case information for one or more practices facilitating maintenance and display of a graphical case board enabling entry and display of medical professional activity information and patient treatment information having case chronology information facilitating case status alerting in conjunction with tracked medical cases providing an intuitive graphical user interface for interacting with the system facilitating entry of medical case information enabling electronic tracking of medical case assignments and roles in addition to techniques for assuming new assignments and roles and passing assignments and roles between users and establishing secure authentication and access techniques to facilitate ease of use and other medical case information management functions.

For example medical information management system is capable of maintaining a central unified repository of patient medical professional activity and case information for one or more medical practices. For example medical information management system may maintain patient treatment records that dynamically track care provided to patients for one or more medical practices. Medical information management system can dynamically update this information based on communications with medical personnel using mobile devices or other suitable access devices . Medical information management system may also access and exchange information with other information management and processing elements of system . In particular embodiments medical information management system acquires patient management information from one or more patient information systems . For example medical information management system can upload patient information for all patients scheduled for treatment on a particular day.

Medical information management system maintains information on patients and medical professional activity and supports interactions with other devices to manage and display the medical and logistics information. For instance mobile devices can access medical information management system to download information for display in the form of a graphical case board showing all cases mapping to a particular medical practice or even a particular location for a medical practice. In certain implementations mobile devices may present the medical case board information in tabbed interfaces with tabs corresponding to predefined phases of care for a medical practice. Mobile devices could further interface with medical information management system to receive and manage more detailed patient treatment information through other specialized interfaces such as a case summary interface for summarizing information for a case or a case details interface for detailing the chronology and other medical events associated with a case. For example mobile devices may present a graphical user interface showing patient treatment records in tabbed interfaces with the ability to list medical events for real time tracking of cases. Users of mobile devices can use these interfaces to provide real time entry of information corresponding to treatment events which medical information management system can then use to update the case board and progress patients through phases of treatment. This type of process uses the capture of treatment information such as billable events or other required records to feed other processes that in typical systems require separate efforts to track such as a case white board that requires case board runners to physically update.

Particular embodiments support secure access to medical information management system using an access scheme designed to maintain a high level of security while supporting user friendly access with devices that may have limited or non traditional user interfaces. The access techniques may use a combination of authorization information checked in one or more steps such as a username password quick access code such as a personal identification number PIN or other string of characters or gestures secure hash device identifiers or other secure authentication information. In certain embodiments secure authentication is a multi step process that uses different types of information provided at different stages of access. According to particular embodiments one step may involve device identification. For example a particular mobile device may have a secure device hash or other suitable unique identifier that can be registered with and verified by medical information management system . Another step may involve a secure token or key that uniquely maps to a particular medical practice which may use information from other steps such as a secure device hash that links a specific mobile device to a particular medical practice . Another step may involve providing a user name and associated password for example by selecting a user name from a list of available users and then providing a password that meets certain length and character requirements. Another step may require entry of a quick access code such as a four or six number pin or a particular pre recorded gesture. These different steps and secure authentication information may be combined and used at particular times to ensure that access to medical information is suitably restricted while allowing authorized users of mobile devices relatively easy access to information. For example after requiring one or more relatively high security authentication steps subsequent access over the course of some period of time may only require a subset of credentials such as a quick access code. During that period of time mobile device could enter sleep modes or other application and upon a user wishing to restart access to medical information mobile device would simply require reentry of the quick access code. If mobile device were restarted or some extended period of time passed system could require reprocessing through one or more of the higher security steps.

After access is granted the user may select a practice location from a list of available practice locations for the medical practice and thereby gain access to the corresponding medical case information and functionality of the system. Following authentication mobile devices and medical information management system may interoperate to present medical information in an intuitive graphical case board interface to the user. For example the graphical case board may enable entry and display of a patient treatment record including case chronology case status alerting in conjunction with tracked medical cases electronic tracking of medical case assignments and roles assuming new assignments and roles and passing assignments and roles between users.

The graphical user interface allows medical professional activity case board information and patient treatment records to be securely accessed and displayed. In addition this information can be used to track billing related events as a patient progresses through various medical events or sub events of a particular surgery or other medical procedure. For example mobile devices may securely present a graphical case board to view the status of a patient scheduled for a medical procedure where medical information management system actually maintains all of this information. Similarly PCs may securely access medical information management system to view similar information. Thus for instance an interface available at PCs may display patient information or medical events maintained by medical information management system portions of which may be indirectly derived from other components of system such as patient information system or one or more mobile devices .

In addition to viewing medical case board information in a graphical case board interface embodiments of the present disclosure facilitate the presentation and tracking of patient treatment records for particular cases. A patient treatment record represents any collection of information or subset of that information detailing information about a patient and the patients case s . For example a patient treatment record could include general demographic information for the patient name age medical history etc. and case specific information such as assigned or current treatment rooms e.g. and assigned operating room a chronology of treatment events codes involvement by specific medical personnel notes and other suitable case information.

A patient treatment record may be accessed to display a graphical representation of a sequence of steps or medical events corresponding to the chronology of a medical procedure for a particular case. For this purpose a patient treatment record may include a time record associated with each step or medical event corresponding to a case chronology. Thus medical personnel may view and track billing related events such as the performance of a step in a medical procedure. For example an anesthesiologist may track the time spent attending to a patient or administering anesthesia by recording anesthesia start and stop using a graphical user interface on mobile devices . The entry of these events can feed other aspects of the system such as the tracking of patients on electronic case boards.

System may also use a set of case checklist items and patient information to track cases including non time specific billing information procedure and diagnostic codes and information on general quality of care rendered by one or more medical professionals. In a similar fashion other events and checklists may be incorporated into the graphical user interface to implement a set of institutional policies and procedures for delivering patient care as required at a particular medical practice or facility. The listed medical events and case checklist items can be based on customized templates potentially customized for individual practice locations such as for a specific hospital.

In addition to tracking medical cases embodiments of the present disclosure may use medical information from medical information management system to manage medical case assignments and roles among a team of medical professionals. For example a medical professional may use features provided in a graphical user interface on mobile device to handoff or take over a medical role. In an anesthesia setting this may involve a first CRNA who is actively providing care for a patient handing off this management role to a second CRNA when the first CRNA requires a break. Another example may include an anesthesiologist who is supervising multiple CRNAs handing off his supervisory role to another anesthesiologist when he can no longer act in that capacity. In particular implementations the role handoff process may require that the relieving party initiate the role handoff process to take over a case role from another medical professional. Moreover this role handoff process may work within constraints established by institutional policies and procedures for a particular facility or collection of facilities. For example supervising anesthesiologists may be prohibited from relieving other anesthesiologists when they are already supervising a maximum of four CRNAs. Similarly CRNAs may be prohibited from relieving other CRNAs when they are already providing care for another patient. Medical information management system may maintain a set of role handling rules that define permitted roles for classes of medical personnel limits on those roles e.g. only supervise up to four cases and not while performing any procedure and details for how handoffs must be processed and verified.

System may further provide case alerting functionality that enables targeted messaging to appropriate medical professionals using a variety of communication techniques and protocols. Case alerts may occur automatically or may be user initiated. Additionally case alerts may take on a variety of forms including voice text multimedia or application specific e.g. embedded notification in a customer medical information management application running on mobile devices . In the case of automatic notifications case alerting schemes may deliver alerts or notifications on the occurrence of some predefined case event. Case alerts can be sent to a variety of individuals and can based on various roles including medical case role team management role or context based role such as those who respond to specific clinical changes

In one example supervising anesthesiologists may be alerted on their corresponding mobile device by medical information management system when a particular event occurs for a case for which they are responsible. Another case alert may involve supervising anesthesiologists being alerted when a patient transitions from one predefined phase of care to another such as from a pre operation phase to intra operation phase. Case alerts may also be used in conjunction with role handoffs. For example medical information management system may notify one or more supervised CRNAs when a role handoff results in a change to their supervising anesthesiologist.

Case alerts may also be delivered on disparate networks. For example medical information management system may deliver a case alert message or notification via communications network and wireless telephony network to mobile phones . Thus certain embodiments may allow a medical professional to be notified of changes occurring in the field in the form of voice text or multimedia messages even after leaving the associated medical facility. In conjunction with case alerts and notifications users receiving alerts may confirm delivery and or issue an appropriate response. Thus for example mobile phones may receive a case alert and send one or more responsive messages to medical information management system and or mobile devices deployed at a particular medical facility through the coordination of medical information management system and networks and . Therefore medical professionals can use case alerts and notifications to stay apprised of real time changes occurring at a medical facility assess the requirements for immediate patient care and coordinate with other medical professionals to respond as medically appropriate.

Elements of system may also facilitate coordination with a billing system to develop invoices and reports. For example medical information management system may communicate with one or more billing systems to support billing related functions. Thus medical information management system can support billing systems to produce appropriate invoices for surgical procedures anesthesia services and or other billing related medical events corresponding to a medical provider site e.g. a particular hospital or hospital floor or individual patients. Billing system may then forward invoices or other billing information to the appropriate insurance provider patient or other responsible party. Thus a billing system may be seamlessly integrated with other functionality described in this disclosure to perform various medical billing operations.

While system is illustrated as including specific components arranged in a particular configuration it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using any suitable arrangement and collection of components capable of providing functionality such as that described.

System represents any appropriate combination of hardware controlling logic and data. For example system may be one or more computer servers or virtual computer servers capable of providing the appropriate functionality for centrally managing patient and case information for one or more practices. As illustrated system includes a web server a case alert module a database a standards based application programming interface API business logic and one or more processors .

Web server represents any appropriate combination of hardware controlling logic and data for interfacing with remote devices using web based protocols to provide web based access to the medical information and functionality provided by system . For example web server may be a web host that serves web pages to facilitate access to some or all functions of system .

Case alert module represents any appropriate combination of hardware controlling logic and data for facilitating case status alerting in conjunction with tracked medical cases and activities of a medical care team. In addition case alert module may be coupled to one or more networks such as a telephone network a wired or wireless computer networks a cellular network a radio network a satellite network or any other appropriate network capable of delivering case status alerts.

Database represents any appropriate combination of hardware controlling logic and data for maintaining patient information case information medical professional activity information and other system related data. As illustrated database has various data components including patient data case data user data practice data system metadata location data device registry data user access logs and rules data.

Patient data includes information regarding patients tracked by system . For example for each patient tracked by system database may maintain a patient identifier such as a name general demographic information such as the patient s date of birth and any appropriate responsible party or insurance information.

Case data represents a collection of information corresponding to a particular case associated with a scheduled medical procedure for a patient at a defined medical facility. Such information may include a case identifier or reference information on a procedure scheduled to occur or currently occurring such as surgery type an assigned operating room the attending physician or anesthesiologist records of the case chronology of a scheduled medical procedure various medical events in the case chronology involvement by specific medical professionals procedure and diagnostic codes modifiers and audit logs corresponding to various medical events entered by specific practice personnel. According to particular embodiments system updates case data based on real time inputs from mobile devices . System can provide patient treatment records to other devices based on information maintained in patient and case data.

User data represents a collection of information corresponding to various users who interact with system including users of PCs mobile phones and mobile devices . Such user information may include authentication data such as authorized users corresponding to a defined practice location each authorized user s passwords each authorized user s system access history each authorized user s usage preferences and other access codes. This information can be used to provide secure access to system and as appropriate prohibit unauthorized access to medical information maintained by system .

Practice data represents practice wide settings and preferences corresponding to a medical practice and potentially for one or more specific practice locations. This may include rules and policies for managing medical data instituted by a particular medical practice. Practice data may also include a core set or subset of medical procedure terminology for a medical practice or procedure. Such medical procedure terminology may conform to Current Procedural Terminology CPT or International Classification of Diseases ICD codes. Such codes may be used in conjunction with recording billing related events for a particular practice. Practice data may also include information related to historic utilization and appropriate future allocation of medical professional resources available to the practice. Other information included in practice data may include billing report preferences billing export preferences and any translation or transmission settings necessary to communicate various reports to the defined medical practice at a particular location. This information facilitates the generation of billing reports and invoices in the desired format for a practice.

Location data includes information corresponding to a defined practice location either tied to a particular medical practice at that location or based on rules of information about multiple medical practices that may provide care at that location. Location data may include case chronology templates checklist templates quality control templates such as a physician quality reporting incentives PQRI template and other templates for capturing information in a form customized to a particular practice location or practice location medical practice specified manner. These templates facilitate the recording of medical events occurring in the field in addition to facilitating the real time tracking of quality control measures. For example a case chronology template may define a set of rules regarding entry of medical events associated with a procedure and include time events or other entries. Case chronology templates may be manually and or dynamically adjusted based on operations at one or more practice locations such as based on feedback showing a particular event that consistently must be manually entered at a particular practice location.

Rules data defines permitted or prohibited activities corresponding generally to users medical professional roles specific medical practices locations medical procedures or other activities. For example these rules may implement practice specific or location specific policies affecting medical professionals or relevant medical events. For example a rule for an anesthesia practice may prohibit an anesthesiologist from managing more than four CRNAs. Thus these rules provide guidelines for active case management in terms of a workflow that can be specific to a medical specialty or a medical facility.

Standards based API represents hardware appropriate controlling logic and data for interfacing with remote components using standardized processes and protocols. For example standards based API may interface with patient information systems to retrieve patient information from one or more medical practices. As another example standards based API may facilitate interactions with remote devices to support alerting functions such as through text messaging with mobile phones .

Business logic represents hardware controlling logic and data associated that controls the fundamental operation and administration of system including interactions of elements to provide the interactive medical information management processes described herein. For example business logic may be software for execution by one or more processors to provide a central medical information management service that tracks medical professional activity and patient care and interfaces with mobile devices . Processor represents one or more computer processors for executing business logic or other software or controlling logic associated with elements of system .

In operation elements of system operate together to perform various functions of the present disclosure including maintaining a central unified repository of patient and case information for one or more practices and facilitating the maintenance of medical professional activity information patient treatment information including case chronology and medical case summary information. System uses this information to support applications on mobile devices that can interface with and graphically present that information. In addition system facilitates case status alerting for tracked medical cases providing an intuitive graphical user interface for interacting with the system and enabling the electronic tracking of medical case assignments and roles and medical case role handoffs between assigned medical professionals. Elements of system can ensure that users of system are securely authenticated prior to accessing medical information and case management functions. Accordingly only those users who are properly authenticated may interact with system .

For example elements of system are operable to maintain a central unified repository of patient and case information for one or more medical practices. In particular processors may execute appropriate business logic to communicate with one or more patient information systems to retrieve patient information corresponding to a medical practice. System stores information in database generates day of care information for example based on patient information retrieved from one or more patient information systems communicates information from database to computing devices e.g. mobile phones PCs and or mobile devices and receives updates including real time information from one or more computing devices. This information can then be used by a graphical user interface to display and facilitate real time data entry and management of medical case and chronology information. Any changes occurring at these computing devices that are relevant to real time case management and medical professional coordination may then be received over a network. Accordingly elements of system interact with one another to actively manage medical case information as patients receive care.

As discussed above system may impose various authentication requirements before permitting access to functions and information of system . These may include one or more levels of interactive authentication steps requiring user interactions as well as ongoing automated exchanges. For example each communication or request from a particular mobile device may include a secure device hash identifying that mobile device to system .

According to particular embodiments system implements a multi level access scheme that requires different types of credentials at each level. For example system could require a user name and password potentially in combination with a device hash for first level access and then a quick access code for second level access and for re access over some period of time. System may compare these received values with stored user data according to business logic to determine whether the user identified in the request has appropriate credentials for accessing the medical information and functionality of system . Using these secure authentication means system can guarantee that access to case information and specific patient medical data is appropriately protected.

During operation system provides medical information such as case board medical professional activity or patient treatment information for presentation and use by graphical user interfaces presented on mobile devices . To support this functionality system maintains real time tracking information for patients receiving care and activities of identified medical professionals provides the information to mobile devices and receives and processes requests to update the information. For responding to medical case board information requests case data for multiple cases may be accessed for retrieving a subset of the case details for forwarding to the remote computing device to display on its graphical user interface. For example in response to a case board request from mobile device system may compile selected information for all patients scheduled to or receiving care at a practice location for a medical practice associated with the requesting mobile device and then provide that information to the requesting mobile device for example as a collection of patient treatment records.

Mobile devices may also request information or provide updates for particular cases. In response system may provide responsive patient treatment records that include details of the requested patient and case extracted from database potentially with more information than for case board requests . The accessed case data may include medical professional activity data relative to the case procedure information diagnosis information case chronology data such as medical events associated with a particular case and any related checklist items. As appropriate system may log requests or other access events in the access logs of database according to business logic and any corresponding rules maintained in the rules data of database .

In responding to information requests system may process the response information as appropriate based on the requesting computing device. Such processing may include formatting the case board or patient treatment record according to location data in database . For example case board information may be arranged according to a template that may organize all cases for a location into categories corresponding to predefined phases of care defined in the location data for a specific practice. For an anesthesia or other appropriate practice those predefined phases of care may correspond to schedule pre operation intra operation and post operation phases. As another example aspects of a patient treatment record may be organized according to an event chronology template a modifier checklist template and or a quality control template defined in the location data. Thus the templates and other information in the location data of database instruct processor and business logic how a practice wishes the requested information to be populated organized and delivered for subsequent presentation on a graphical user interface of a requesting computing device. However some or all of the customization and formatting of information may be handled by other elements such as mobile devices .

In addition to facilitating the display of chronological stages at one or more remote computing devices system can also receive real time updates corresponding to specific billing related events such as the performance of a step in a medical procedure. According to particular embodiments some or all of these may be real time that is provided from care givers as or very nearly in time to a patient receiving care indicated by an update. For example an anesthesiologist may use mobile device to track in real time time spent with a patient or time spent actually administering anesthesia from start to finish. Such durational information may be provided to system and maintained in an appropriate time record of a patient treatment record. Updates may also include specific checklist items corresponding to events having no time value or policy based requirements of a medical procedure. Once an update is processed other computing devices may securely receive case information including these updates in the form of case board information patient treatment records case alert or other appropriate form. In this manner all medical professionals associated with the case can be kept aware of any changes occurring in real time for a particular case.

In operation system may also manage medical case assignments and roles among a set of medical professionals. In particular a medical case may include multiple roles corresponding to responsibilities of various medical professionals with respect to a specific case. In certain embodiments of the present disclosure a medical professional may use features provided at their respective computing device to assume a role or handoff a medical role to another medical professional. Such handoffs may be necessary for shift changes breaks or for any other number of practical reasons. To facilitate the assumption of roles and role handoff system may receive a request to handoff the role from a relieving party. In particular implementations requiring the relieving party to initiate the role handoff ensures that a case is not inadvertently abandoned when a role handoff is not successful. For example if the party seeking relief from a case were to initiate the role handoff a situation may arise where the relieving party refuses to accept the role or is otherwise unable to accept the role and the case may be abandoned altogether. If however the relieving party were required to initiate the role handoff process the role for that case continues to remain assigned to the party seeking relief until the role handoff is in fact successful.

In response to a role assumption or role handoff request system may access rules data found in database to determine whether the role change is permitted for this particular practice. Checking against such rules ensures that policies specific to a medical specialty or facility are properly implemented. For example as a matter of institutional policy an anesthesia practice may prohibit the role handoff of a case from one anesthesiologist to another if the relieving anesthesiologist is already supervising more than four cases as outlined in the rules data of database . As with all other events system may log the requests and subsequent role changes. In some embodiments system may facilitate role handoff coordination between medical professionals by seeking appropriate approvals prior to a role handoff. For example if a relieving party initiates the role handoff process then system may seek approval from the party that would be relieved through a confirmation or other appropriate message. Likewise if a party seeking relief initiates the role handoff process then system may seek similar approval from the relieving party. If a role change is appropriate and finalized system updates the case data to indicate the successful assumption or role handoff for the case. This case update can then be accessed by other computing devices and or systems such that they are made aware of the role handoff in real time. In particular implementations this change in case data may cause computing devices associated with the practice or case to receive a real time update in the form of case board information patient treatment record case alert or any other appropriate form for receiving case updates.

During operation system may also provide case alerting functionality to notify medical professionals of relevant medical events or concerns. According to particular design considerations case alerts may be automatically generated or user initiated. For automatic case alerts system is operable to maintain a list of customizable events for which a case alert should be issued. In particular database may include a set of alert rules specifying alerts rules for triggering an alert such as occurrence of a particular event and alert execution information such as contact information and procedures for handling a triggered alert . Subsequent events such as updates to case data can then trigger case alerts. For example an event trigger may require all role handoffs for a case to notify the party being relieved and or supervising medical personnel. Once an event trigger is associated with a medical event in the case data subsequent events matching the event trigger can cause the case alert module to notify the medical professional indicated in the event trigger in the form of a case alert.

Case alert module may send a alert messages using any appropriate formats and protocols including voice text or multimedia messages based on the targeted device. As discussed the form and network for delivering a case alert may be defined by the contact information of the event trigger. For example the contact information may indicate that a supervising medical professional wishes to be notified of relevant role handoffs in the form of a text message using a short message service SMS network. In certain implementations case alert system may support interactive case alerts. For example in addition to notifying particular medical professionals of successful role handoffs case alert module may facilitate the role handoff process by allowing medical professionals to accept decline and confirm role handoffs. Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure support configuring sending and receiving automatic case alerts for communicating medical events to medical professionals.

Case alert module can also process user initiated messages. For example a user of a particular mobile device may choose to alert other users to a particular event or information. Once the case alert module receives this user initiated message case alert module can determine how when and where to send the message based on the received message and intended recipient. In a similar manner case alert module can also receive responses to user initiated messages and forward them to the intended computing devices. User initiated messages may be sent in any suitable form and using any appropriate network. For example the messages may be a text voice or multimedia message sent over a wired wireless cellular or any other network. Thus system allows medical professionals to stay apprised of real time changes to case information and communicate with each other efficiently to assess the requirements of immediate patient care and coordinate effectively with each other.

System may also interact with billing systems such as billing system to develop billing invoices and reports. In particular upon request or at defined intervals system may access practice data residing at database that defines report preferences for delivery of billing related events. In addition system may access export preferences and translation and transmission settings for placing reports in appropriate form for delivery to the billing system corresponding to a medical practice. Alternatively export preferences may define the intended destination of bill reports or invoices. Thus insurance companies and other responsible parties may receive a bill or an invoice developed according to their predefined report preferences.

While system is illustrated as including specific components it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using any suitable arrangement and collection of components.

As illustrated mobile device includes a number of components for maintaining and displaying medical information. Mobile device may represent any suitable portable hardware including appropriate controlling logic and data capable of communicating with remote devices and systems receiving user input and displaying medical information. As shown mobile device includes several components which may include a network interface a processor a memory and a user interface . The illustrated embodiment further discloses memory as including a non volatile portion of memory and a volatile portion of memory .

Network interface represents any appropriate combination of hardware and controlling logic for coupling to one or more networks. Network interface may support any number of suitable protocols for communicating on a communication network. For example network interface may be a wireless local area network interface cellular network interface satellite interface and or any other appropriate interface for communicating on a communication network. Network interface may have multiple interfaces for handling different communication protocols.

Processor represents one or more processing elements including hardware logic and data capable of controlling the operation of mobile device . For example processor may be a computer processor for executing a medical information management application stored in memory or any other software or controlling logic associated with mobile device such as a mobile operating system.

Memory represents appropriate hardware and control logic for maintaining a medical information management application and case information corresponding to one or more medical practices. Memory may also include storage for other data such as a mobile operating system of mobile device . As illustrated memory includes a non volatile portion and a volatile portion . Non volatile portion of memory represents memory for maintaining persistent applications and or data. Volatile portion of memory represents storage for maintaining non persistent applications and or data. According to particular design considerations the medical information management application and practice location and user configuration data may be stored in the non volatile portion of memory while medical professional location practice activity patient data and case information retrieved from a medical information management system may be stored in the volatile portion of memory . Such an implementation provides added security to critical data and helps to ensure that confidential user patient and or case information is not readily accessible even if mobile device is lost or otherwise compromised. In some implementations some or all of the practice location and user credentials may be stored in non volatile memory to facilitate seamless access and or quick reentry into the system while some other credential may be stored in volatile memory to ensure that a lost device cannot be improperly used.

Mobile device also includes a user interface . User interface represents any appropriate combination of hardware control logic and data for displaying information to a user and receiving inputs from a user. Thus user interface includes any input and or output interface. For example a user interface may be a touch screen interface that is capable of both displaying graphical information and receiving user inputs. User interface of mobile device may be used to display medical case information using a medical information management application and receive real time updates of medical case information for appropriate processing and forwarding by the medical information management application.

In particular embodiments mobile device is capable of transmitting receiving and modifying medical case information to track changes occurring in real time at a medical facility and forward such information to a medical information management system. Mobile device may be used by medical professionals to receive real time information corresponding to one or more cases and enter real time updates for transmission to a medical information management system. Such updates in turn can be delivered to other computing devices or systems. In particular embodiments mobile device must transmit updates to medical information management system which controls whether data is actually updated. Thus a handheld device such as mobile device enables medical case information to be managed and coordinated between medical professionals actively rendering care to one or more patients.

In operation elements of mobile device perform various functions including facilitating maintenance and display of a graphical case board enabling entry and display of medical professional activity information and patient treatment records having case chronology information facilitating case status alerting for tracked medical cases providing an intuitive graphical user interface for interacting with the system enabling tracking of medical case assignments and roles in addition to handing off assignments and roles between medical professionals and facilitating secure authentication and access techniques.

To provide a graphical case board mobile device retrieves and presents information maintained by medical information management system . For example processor may execute a medical information management application residing in a nonvolatile portion of memory to receive medical case board information. Once this information is received mobile device may display a graphical case board using user interface . In operation user interface may graphically present multiple predefined phases of care in multiple tabs where each tab is selected through the user interface . In particular embodiments each tab may correspond to a single predefined phase of care. In those embodiments user interface may receive user selections for each tab to display patient entries for patients for the corresponding predefined phase of care. In an embodiment designed for an anesthesia practice the predefined phases of care may correspond to schedule pre operation intra operation and post operation stages for providing anesthesia care.

In some embodiments each tab corresponding to a predefined phase of care may present a list of rows of patient tracking entries that list pertinent case information from a patient tracking record. This may include for example a patient information such as the patient s name the medical procedure the attending physician surgeon or anesthesiologist any supervising or assisting medical professional the operating room scheduled operating room time case role information and any specific sub events within the predefined phase of care such as the last anesthetic or surgical event with the corresponding time.

In operation as a patient proceeds through medical phases of care patient tracking entries may transition from being listed under the tab for one predefined phase of care to another. For example in an anesthesia practice the event of a patient arriving at a medical facility may cause a patient tracking entry to transition from being listed under a schedule phase to a pre operation phase. Similarly when an update indicating anesthesia administration is started for a patient the corresponding patient tracking entry may transition from a pre operation stage to an intra operation phase. When an update indicating that anesthesia administration has ended the patient tracking entry may transition from a intra operation phase a post operation phase. At some predetermined point in time such as midnight all post operation cases may be clear with potentially exceptions for cases completed within a set period of time near midnight . Thus the functionality provided by a graphical case board interface can receive updates to track real time transitions between phases of medical care at a defined medical practice location.

In addition selecting a row corresponding to a patient may cause the medical information management application to retrieve either a patient treatment record or case summary information. In one implementation if the medical professional has a role associated with the case a patient treatment record may be presented. If the medical professional does not have a role associated with the case then case summary information may be presented. Mobile device can request a patient treatment record or case summary information using network interface to communicate across the communication network to the medical information management system. Mobile device can also receive corresponding patient treatment record or case summary information for display on user interface using network interface .

In addition to displaying the predefined phases of care for all cases corresponding to a medical practice at a defined location mobile device is capable of tracking medical events corresponding to a specific patient. In some embodiments mobile device may graphically display either a patient treatment record or a case summary based on whether the medical professional using this system has a role associated with the case. A patient treatment record corresponds to a single case and may include a case chronology that specifies timing of events during treatment. For the purposes of tracking timing and other related information a patient treatment record may include a time record for medical events in the case chronology of the patient treatment record. A case summary may include case details for a specific case and facilitate the assumption or handing off of medical roles with respect to the case.

Mobile device is capable of presenting a patient treatment record in a graphical form on user interface . In some implementations a patient treatment records may be presented in a tabbed interface. For example a patient treatment record may be organized and displayed under multiple selectable tabs. One tab may present information corresponding to the case in a summary form including patient and medical procedure information. Another tab may list a chronology of related medical events for a medical procedure corresponding to the selected case based a predefined template for the medical practice. For example listed medical events for an anesthesia practice may include preparation start and stop anesthesia start and stop antibiotic administration intubation and surgery start and end. Each medical event that is presented in the chronology tab may be selected to log a timestamp corresponding to the medical event in a corresponding time record. Among other things the time record for each presented medical event may have a current value of time which could be a specific time value or no time value at all for example in the case of previously unrecorded medical events. Logging timestamps as the new current value for a time record permits the proper recording of the time for a billing related event. For example the beginning of anesthesia may be logged by selecting anesthesia start and the end of administering anesthesia may be logged by selecting anesthesia stop. In particular embodiments selecting a billing related event presents an interface for allowing the user to accept the current time as the time value for a timestamp. Determining a difference between two such timestamps facilitate the generation of appropriate invoices and reports for billing related events. As changes or updates to a patient treatment record occur corresponding changes and updates to case board information may also be triggered. Thus other users can view a graphical representation of case board information which includes information corresponding to the updated patient treatment record.

The graphical representation of a patient treatment record may also include a tab for checklist items for recording medical events that occur during a medical procedure but may not have a time or duration associated with them. Such events may include having to insert an extra intravenous line for a patient or other events that are performed for a medical procedure on an as needed basis. In addition the checklist items may be displayed under appropriate categories or subcategories. The order content number and organization of checklist items may be defined based on a template maintained for the practice or location at a medical information management system. Also the tab for checklist items may be pre populated based on rules triggered by non checklist data or other checklist items. In operation selecting a specific checklist item may cause the toggling of a YES NO indicator for specifying whether the item has occurred during the case. Thus the checklist presentation may entail a summary view that facilitates checklist data review and a checklist entry view that facilitates toggling a state e.g. YES NO for a particular checklist item. In some implementations checklist items can be used to ensure quality control by requiring medical professionals to indicate whether specific policies or steps were followed. In addition to case specific items presented in a tabbed form the graphical patient treatment interface may also include a contextual return tab for returning to the graphical case board. For example the graphical patient treatment interface may have a back tab labeled according to the previous screen e.g. Board for the graphical case board which if selected causes the graphical case board to be displayed on user interface .

Mobile device is also capable of displaying a case summary interface for presenting a list of relevant medical information corresponding to a case. In certain implementations when the user selects a particular patient tracking entry in the graphical case board interface but has no role associated with the case the medical information management application of mobile device causes the user interface to display the case summary interface. The presented case summary information may include a patient identifier the specific medical procedure the attending surgeon any anesthesiologists that are supervising or managing the case any procedure or diagnosis codes specific case identifiers and any other detailed information about the selected case or patient. In addition the information presented may include relevant medical events of the case that have occurred or are currently taking place. In some implementations this allows medical professionals to view case details for cases for which they do not have a role but may wish to now assume a role. In those implementations medical professionals can assess a case in summary form prior to assuming a role. Some embodiments may also include color and or icon depictions of data incompleteness. The manner in which data incompleteness is indicated is configurable based on location specific rules and or templates. Thus the case summary interface presents a variety of relevant information to the user in an accessible form.

Some embodiments of the graphical case summary interface may also include multiple tabs. The tabs may correspond to specific roles that a medical professional can assume with respect to the case. For example these roles may include assisting supervising or directing and personally providing care on the case. For an anesthesia practice these roles may correspond to responsibilities associated with the administration of anesthesia. User interface may receive a selection corresponding to a role and in response may require confirmation. If confirmed mobile device may then transmit a role handoff request to medical information management system . If the information management system authorizes the role handoff mobile device may receive a confirmation that the role assumption has occurred and in response present a case summary which includes the new assumed role. In particular implements the graphical case summary interface may also include a contextual return tab for returning to a graphical case board interface. For example a contextual return tab labeled as Board may be selected using the user interface for returning to a graphical case board interface.

Embodiments of mobile device may also provide case alerting functionality for necessary medical professionals. As discussed case alerts may be automatically generated or be initiated by a user. Case alerts may take on a variety of forms including voice text or multimedia. For example a user of mobile device may be notified when a case that is being managed by the user of mobile device enters a particular predefined phase of care. As an additional example another case alert may cause a party being relieved to be notified when a role handoff is successfully processed. In operation mobile device is capable of receiving a case alert corresponding to a case on network interface for processing by a medical information management application being executed by a processor . After appropriate processing of the case alert mobile device may present the case alert on user interface in any appropriate form. For example mobile device may present the case alert as a pop up that may require the user of mobile device to acknowledge receipt of the case alert or even take some action such as accept a role handoff request. In other embodiments the case alert may be presented in a non intrusive faun such as a sliding banner or a pop up that fades away after a predefined time interval. In this manner the user of mobile device is informed of relevant case events corresponding to a patient undergoing a medical procedure at a defined location. In certain embodiments mobile device may facilitate responding to case alert messages for example to acknowledge the receipt of the alert or to otherwise engage other medical professionals to take appropriate action in response to the indicated case event. In those embodiments the response may be received by user interface and the medical information management application being executed by processor may process the response for delivery to a remote medical information management system over a communication network using network interface . The medical information management system may then process the response and forward corresponding messages to one or more handheld devices and or systems as appropriate.

Users of mobile device may also manually initiate their own messages for delivery to other systems to request information related to a case or provide information about a case to appropriate medical professionals. In certain embodiments user interface may present a predefined list of user initiated messages for delivery to other medical professionals corresponding to a medical practice. For example messages included in a predefined list includes but are not limited to need break need assistance induction emergency or other suitable predefined message. In alternative embodiments user interface may facilitate the entry of user initiated messages in a free form field. In those embodiments user interface may facilitate the entry of fully customizable messages for addressing concerns with respect to a case or any real time need associated with a medical practice or procedure. Accordingly mobile device supports automatic and user initiated case alerts for coordinating and interacting with medical professionals associated with a medical practice.

While mobile device is illustrated as including specific components it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using any suitable arrangement and collection of components.

System hierarchy shows a first display mode having a user login interface that first requires a device authentication. In operation device authentication may be performed by comparing a practice or user key code or any other suitable identifier to values stored in a medical information management system. Once the device itself is authenticated the graphical user interface may provide an interface for indicating a medical practice and selecting an authorized user corresponding to the medical practice. Once a user is selected the device may receive a password and PIN from the user. Once the user is properly authenticated with the medical information management system the graphical user interface may display a list of one or more supported locations for a medical practice. In some implementations these locations correspond to medical facilities for providing care to patients. In operation the selection of a location may cause the display of case board interface . The case board provides information regarding all cases at a defined location organized into predefined phases of case. The case board interface is further operable to receive a selection of a case corresponding to a particular patient. In response to receiving a selection a case summary interface or patient treatment interface may be displayed based on design considerations. The case summary interface provides detailed information about a particular case including both patient specific information and current information regarding medical events corresponding to an ongoing or scheduled medical procedure. In particular implementations a case summary interface is presented when a user is not affiliated with the case. A user may not be affiliated with a case for example when the user has not assumed an active role with respect to the case.

In other implementations selecting a particular case at the case board interface causes the graphical user interface to proceed to a patient treatment interface . According to design considerations patient treatment interface may be presented if the user using the graphical user interface actually has an active role in the selected case. For example as shown in the illustration a patient treatment interface may present a patient treatment record in three different display modes. One mode may present patient and case information in such a manner that facilitates modification of specific data elements. Another display mode may display case chronology and facilitate the tracking of medical events for the case in corresponding time records. Another display mode of patient treatment interface may permit the recording of case data items corresponding to medical events or items not having a time or duration associated with them. Such case items may be listed in a checklist form. In some embodiments checklist items may include case items for ensuring quality control or conformity with institutional policies for a medical practice. Thus the hierarchy of display modes of system hierarchy facilitate streamlined access to medical case information in an aggregate form through case board interface and the real time tracking of specific cases through patient treatment interface .

As illustrated case board tabs of case board represent an organization of patient tracking entries according to predefined phases of care corresponding to a medical practice at a defined location. These predefined phases of care may be defined in a template configured for a medical practice and maintained by a central medical information management system. In the illustrated embodiment each of the case board tabs correspond to a phase of providing anesthesia care. For example the schedule phase corresponds to a phase of providing medical care where each of the patients listed are scheduled but have not yet arrived in the peri operative area. Another phase an anesthesia pre operation phase shown in the illustration as pre op represents a phase of care prior to an anesthetic or surgical procedure where patients are waiting in the surgical holding room or pre operation area. The next tab corresponds to an intra operation phase shown in the illustrated embodiment as intra op. The intra operation phase represents a phase of care wherein the patients have in process anesthetics or are in the operating room. Finally the last tab corresponds to a post operation anesthesia phase shown in the figure as post op. This final stage corresponds to a phase of care after the anesthetic or surgical procedure where the patients are in the surgical recovery room or post operation area.

In operation each of the illustrated tabs may be selected to list patient tracking entries corresponding to that phase. For example in the illustrated embodiment intra op is currently selected and corresponding patient tracking entries are displayed. Case board tabs may also indicate case count information as shown by the numbers below each labeled tab for a predefined phase of care. These numbers allow a user presented with case board to determine at a quick glance how many patient tracking entries can be found under each of the case board tabs . In certain implementations the case count may correspond to the number of cases under each of the case board tabs that correspond to the user. For example the case count may be the total number of cases within a predefined phase of care for which the user has a case role. Thus the case board tabs provide a user friendly organization of patients as they proceed through predefined phases of anesthesia care.

As specific patients associated with the patient tracking entries progress from one predefined stage to another case board may be updated with appropriate listings under the corresponding case board tabs potentially in real time as these changes occur in the field. For example when a user of a particular mobile device provides a patient treatment update indicating that a patient has begun receiving anesthesia and medical information management system transitions that patient from a pre operation stage to an intra operation stage and all mobile devices tracking that patient or that patient s surgical location can be updated. Accordingly the corresponding patient tracking entry transitions from being listed under the illustrated pre op tab to being listed under the illustrated intra op tab. The case count information corresponding to the tabs may also be updated to reflect such transitions.

The illustrated embodiment of case board shows multiple patient tracking entries . Each patient tracking entry of patient tracking entries corresponds to a particular predefined phase of care indicated by the appropriate case board tab. As illustrated multiple patient tracking entries are listed for the intra operation phase of anesthesia care. In particular each patient tracking entry has specific information corresponding to the indicated case. For example as the illustration shows the patient tracking entry may include patient information such as the patient s name the medical procedure the assigned operating room the attending surgeon physician the anesthesiologist and any supervising anesthesiologist and sub events within the predefined phase of care such as surgery start entering an operating room or an antibiotic being administered. In addition each of these sub events may include a timestamp indicating when the sub event occurred. In particular embodiments case board may display icon based depictions of specific medical events or status for a given case.

The illustration also shows a user affiliated patient tracking entry of patient tracking entries . In particular embodiments case board may cause the list of patient tracking entries to be sorted where cases affiliated with the user are brought to the top of the list. For example user affiliated patient tracking entry is shown at the top of the list of patient tracking entry because it is affiliated with the user of the handheld device on which case board is being displayed. A user affiliation for example may be established when the user of case board has a particular role with respect to the indicated case. Also as shown in the illustration user affiliated patient tracking entry may be highlighted using color or some other suitable visual emphasis. In addition to distinguishing the user affiliated patient tracking entry from other patient tracking entries the provided visual emphasis may further indicate the nature of the role that the user of case board has with respect to the patient indicated by the patient tracking entry. For example case board may use a color scheme defined for the practice where one color indicates that the user is in a supervisory role and another color indicates that the user is actively providing care for a case identified by the patient tracking entry. While a color scheme is disclosed by this particular illustration any suitable visual emphasis for separating user affiliated patient tracking entries from other patient tracking entries is envisioned by the present disclosure. The information displayed in the rows corresponding to user affiliated patient tracking entries such as user affiliated patient tracking entry may be further based on the user s case role. For example a user affiliated patient tracking entry where the user is in a supervisory role may result in particular information being displayed in a particular format. Another user affiliated patient tracking entry where the user is actively providing care for example may result in other information being displayed and or another information format being used. The illustrated embodiment also indicates that case board relies on receiving case status and event data from a remote medical information management system which is updated in real time by multiple medical professionals actively engaged in patient care at a practice location.

In operation each of the patient tracking entries including user affiliated patient tracking entry are capable of being selected through a user interface. The selection of one of the patient tracking entries may result in either a case summary or patient treatment interface being displayed. Design considerations may dictate which one of these interfaces is displayed. For example in the illustrated embodiment selecting user affiliated patient tracking entry may result in the patient treatment interface being displayed since the user of case board has a specific role with respect to the user affiliated patient tracking entry . If one of the other patient tracking entries are selected a case summary interface is displayed. A case summary interface lists details about a particular case including relevant medical events and specific medical data corresponding to the patient e.g. patient identification and medical history . In certain implementations the case board may be visually distinguished from a patient treatment and or case summary interface. For example the case board may be monochromatic while the patient treatment interface and or case summary interface may use colorful tabs or menu selections. Case board may also be operable to receive a user request for a refresh of the case board information. For example shaking the device may generate a case board refresh request that causes case board to fetch updated case board information from a remote medical information management system for display on the graphical case board interface. Thus case board provides a user friendly interface for tracking all medical cases for a medical practice at a particular location.

Patient treatment tab of patient treatment interface provides a tabbed interface for displaying case specific information. In the illustrated embodiment patient treatment tab includes four tabs. While the first tab facilitates return to the graphical case board the other tabs provide further details for the selected case. For example the information tab provides detailed information about the patient such as medical history and other identifying data along with relevant medical events corresponding to the medical care being provided. Another tab shown as the checklist tab lists specific case items in a checklist format. These items correspond to medical events that may be necessary on an as needed basis during a medical procedure but do not have a time or duration associated with them. Thus for example an anesthesiologist may record a medical event that became necessary for a particular patient such as starting an extra intravenous line which may not include a time value or duration. Other case items may relate to quality control measures or institutional policies enforced by a medical practice. Finally the selected chronology tab displays medical events for a particular medical procedure shown in the illustrated embodiment as case chronology events . As shown the case chronology events have timing associated with them which may be recording in an appropriate time record. Further patient treatment tabs may be visually distinguished from each other to discern one tabbed display mode from another.

In the illustration the chronology tab of patient treatment tabs is selected. The chronology tab displays multiple case chronology events . Each of these case chronology events corresponds to an medical event for the medical procedure corresponding to the selected patient and may have an associated time record for recording a time value or duration. The medical events that are listed under the chronology tab may be defined by a practice and or location specific template maintained by a medical information management system. For example as the illustration shows these events may include prep start prep stop anesthesia start operating room OR enter antibiotic admin intubation surgery start surgery end and OR exit. Other events may include arrival in the holding room anesthesia stop bypass start stop heart stop start C section start stop vaginal delivery start stop. Case chronology events may be visually nested to define relationships between collections of events. For example all case chronology events between OR enter and OR exit are considered part of an operating room event. This relationship is shown by the indentation of associated sub events relative to the case chronology events that they are considered to be part of. For example antibiotic admin intubation surgery start and surgery end rows are indented in relation to OR enter and OR exit to show that those events are to take place between entry and exit of the operating room. Patient treatment interface also illustrates nested relationships and the relative duration of medical events by visually emphasizing the range of medical events using color coded vertical bars in the left margin. The colors or other visual emphasis for the vertical bars may be configured in a practice template maintained by a medical information management system. In certain implementations some of the case chronology events may facilitate visual reordering of medical events based on location or practice rules. At the same time certain case chronology events may not facilitate visual reordering if the location or practice rules prohibit it.

In operation the rows corresponding to each of the case chronology events are operable to receive a user selection through a user interface to cause the patient treatment interface to record a timestamp corresponding to the appropriate case chronology event. This timestamp may be recorded in a time record corresponding to the event. For example when a row corresponding to one of the case chronology events is selected patient treatment interface may present a button enabling rapid entry of the current time as the timestamp for the selected case chronology event or present another interface which allows the user to enter another time for the selected case chronology event. As shown the last recorded event in the illustrated embodiment is antibiotic admin at time 13 20 which was recorded by selecting the arrow shown in the right margin of the row corresponding to antibiotic administration event . This time value may be recorded as the current value for the time record corresponding to antibiotic administration event . Other events such as intubation surgery start and surgery end and OR exit may be recorded in a similar fashion as the medical procedure progresses. Since these other events are unrecorded their corresponding time records would have no current value at all. In operation the patient treatment interface is operable through the chronology tab to respond to the receipt of a user selection of one of the case chronology events such as for example the antibiotic administration event record a timestamp in the appropriate timing record and send an event update corresponding to the selected medical event over a network to central medical information management system. In this manner other computing devices and systems managing case information can receive and review changes to case chronology events of a patient tracking record in real time including update of the last case event parameter on case board . In some implementations patient treatment interface may permit a medical professional to add new medical events using the graphical user interface. For example selecting a specialty row for adding events may allow a user to define a new medical event for medical tracking purposes.

Some embodiments of patient treatment interface may implement other features. For example some of the case chronology events may facilitate the reversal of a medical event recording. For example selecting particular events may allow user to undo the recording of an event. This may be useful to correct user entry errors or for other medical reasons. Based on design considerations certain medical events may be irreversible as defined by the associated medical practice. For example a particular medical practice may not choose to allow medical professionals rendering anesthesia care to undo the event of anesthesia start. Some embodiments may display a countdown timer for indicating the time remaining for a medical procedure and this information may be transmitted in real time to a medical information management system. As yet another feature the patient treatment interface may also be operable to receive a user request for a refresh of the patient treatment information. For example shaking the device may generate a refresh request for a patient treatment record that causes patient treatment interface to retrieve updated patient treatment information from a remote medical information management system for display on the graphical case board interface. Thus patient treatment interface provides an user friendly interface for tracking and recording medical events in real time.

In the illustrated embodiment case alert system includes a number of elements that work together to alert one or more medical professionals. As shown case alert system includes an event trigger configuration interface a case alert manager and one or more intended recipients . Some or all of the functionality of system may be provided by case alert module . As a particular example the functionality of case manager may be implemented in case alert module of system .

Event trigger configuration interface represents any suitable interface for configuring medical events for which a case alert should be issued to one or more intended recipients . For example an event trigger configuration interface may be a web interface for supplying a case alert manager with specific event triggers. In addition the event trigger configuration interface may couple to an appropriate communication network to transmit event trigger configurations to case alert manager for updating an appropriate database.

Case alert manager represents appropriate hardware control logic and data for storing case alert configurations and determining when and how to issue an alert according to the configured event triggers. For example case alert manager may be a computer server or virtual computer server capable of processing case alerts. In certain implementations case alert manager may be embodied in a module of a larger medical information management system such as case alert module of system .

Intended recipients represent one or more medical professionals of a medical practice or surgical location identified in an event trigger for receiving case alerts on the occurrence of predefined medical events. For example as shown the intended recipients may include a nurse a case board runner an anesthesiologist or a CRNA. The actual alert method used to notify intended recipients may conform to any appropriate protocol on any suitable network. For instance a medical professional may receive case alerts in a text message using an SMS service or in an email using a wired wireless network.

In operation the case alert manager may issue a case alert to one or more intended recipients when a real time medical event matches an event in a stored event trigger configured through an event trigger configuration interface . In particular case alert manager receives one or more event triggers through the event trigger configuration interface for storage in an appropriate database. Next case alert manager monitors medical events for one or more cases in a medical practice. For example case alert manager may monitor updates to a central database maintaining case information tracking patients receiving care. Case alert manager may then process these medical events to determine whether the identified medical events match the events in any stored event triggers. If a match is found case alert manager may issue a proper case alert message in an appropriate format and using a suitable network to notify one or more indicated intended recipients . Accordingly embodiments of the present disclosure can receive process and send case alerts to facilitate coordination of medical activities for one or more cases.

In the illustration process flow includes a number of steps for providing user authentication login and access to a medical information management system. As shown these steps include a device authorization step a user selection step a user authorization step a location selection step a user login step and a case board presentation step . This collections of steps may be performed for example on a handheld device such as mobile device through a graphical user interface interacting with a remote medical information management system.

The illustration also shows an authentication system and an example user login interface . Authentication system represents a system for authenticating and facilitating access users of the system. For example authentication system may be embodied in a larger medical information management system such as system . The authentication system may be configured with users and locations through an appropriate configuration interface. For example a web interface may be used to configure authentication system with users and locations having access to the system. User login interface represents an example user login interface for supplying a PIN to the authentication system .

In operation process flow begins at the device authorization step . In this step the user of a handled device supplies a practice key identifying a particular medical practice or a user key identifying a user within a particular medical practice. This information is sent across a network via path A along with a device hash corresponding to the authentication system . The device hash ensures that only authorized devices may access the system thereby providing a first level of access protection to the system. Once the practice key or user key and device hash are determined to be valid by authentication system the system responds by sending two lists via path B over one or more networks to the handheld device a list of authorized users for the identified medical practice and a list of specific practice locations for the medical practice.

Next the graphical user interface of the handheld device proceeds to the user selection step . At this step the graphical user interface may be used to indicate one of the authorized users in the list supplied by authentication system . Process flow then enters the user authentication step where the graphical user interface may receive a password for the selected authorized user. Requiring the selection of an authorized user and corresponding password provides a second level of access protection to the system. User authentication step may transmit this information over one or more networks to the authentication system for validation shown as path A of the illustration. Once the authentication system confirms that the password is valid the authentication system sends a personal identification number PIN over a network through return path B to the handheld device. This PIN corresponds to the medical practice and the user identified from the authorized list of users delivered to the handheld device following device authorization step . Process flow then proceeds to the location selection step where a selection of a particular practice location associated with the medical practice is received by the graphical user interface. This causes process flow to enter a user login step .

In operation user login step may present an appropriate user login interface such as for example the illustrated user login interface . The user login interface may accept a user supplied PIN using the graphical user interface. Requiring a user PIN specific to the selected authorized user provides a third level of access protection to the system. Once this information is received user login step may validate the user supplied PIN against the PIN received from authentication system following user authentication step . A validated PIN can be used again later after validation for quick access to medical information and functionality provided by the system thereby obviating repeated validations of the practice key or user key and password corresponding to the selected authorized user. Finally if the entered PIN is valid process flow proceeds to a case board presentation step .

In the illustrated embodiment entering case board presentation step indicates that all proper authentication steps for accessing the medical information management system have been properly processed and that access to the system has been granted. Thus in the case board presentation step the graphical user interface may display an appropriate interface for interacting with a medical information management system. Such an interface may include a graphical case board interface for performing various case related functions corresponding to the selected medical practice and location. Some embodiments may support the retention of selected authorized user and location information for rapid system re entry which may require a subset of the original authentication information as user input. Similarly in some implementations where there are more than one locations associated with practice entering another practice location may only require an appropriate subset of the original authentication information as user input. For example a graphical user interface may request entry of a user PIN to regain access to information and functionality supplied by a previously accessed medical information management system or to switch practice locations. Thus process flow describes an example sequence of steps for user authentication login and access to a medical information management system.

While process flow is illustrated as including specific steps it should be understood that various embodiments may implement a user authentication login and access scheme using any appropriate combination of steps for providing secure access to a medical information management system.

Case role management system represents a system for managing cases and case role assignments at an anesthesia care location. For example case role management system may be embodied as an element or combination of appropriate elements of a medical information management system such as system . Thus for example case role management system may be implemented by business logic of system . A user location configuration interface represents any appropriate interface for configuring assignments and case roles and communicating such configuration to a case role management system . For example a user location configuration interface may be web interface for configuring case roles over a network to case role management system .

In operation the illustrated process flow begins at the case role selection step . As discussed a role indicates a responsibility of medical professionals associated with a medical case. In case selection step a graphical user interface at a handheld device such as system permits a medical professional to select a case role. These case roles may be presented for example in a case summary interface describing a particular medical case. In certain embodiments a tab of the case summary interface may receive a role selection for the case. For example a user may select one of many tabs corresponding an assisting role a supervisory or directing role or a care provider role.

As shown in process flow once a case role is selected case role selection step may proceed to an optional role handoff confirmation step . At this optional step the graphical user interface may request confirmation of a role handoff request when another medical professional currently has that role. This optional step thus confirms a medical professional s desire to relieve another medical professional who is already acting in that particular role with regard to a case. For example a graphical user interface may present a role handoff confirmation message to seek confirmation of a role handoff from one specific medical professional to another. Thus the option role handoff confirmation step ensures that a role handoff was not inadvertently requested.

In operation the case role confirmation step is entered from the case role selection step or the optional role handoff confirmation step as shown in the illustrated process flow . In the case role confirmation step the graphical user interface seeks a confirmation from the user that a case role assumption is requested. For example a graphical user interface may present a pop up panel that appears momentarily on the screen for confirming a case role selection or handoff. Once confirmed case role confirmation step communicates over one or more networks through the shown path A with a case role management system which may be configured by user location configuration interface . As process further shows case role management system after receiving a confirmed case role request responds over one or more networks via path B to a handheld device.

Process flow then proceeds to role assumption step . Role assumption step accepts confirmation of a successful role assumption or role handoff and updates the graphical user interface accordingly. As shown by process role assumption step can for example transition the graphical user interface to presenting a case information interface at patient treatment interface step . Patient treatment interface step presents further details about the case for which the user of a handheld device now holds an assumed role. Among other things this interface facilitates retrieval and real time management of case information. In some embodiments case role management system is further capable of logging the time corresponding to a role assumption or role handoff. Recording such timestamps enables medical professionals associated with the case to determine all medical professionals who were and are currently involved with a case. This information can also be used to generate appropriate invoices and billing reports for a medical practice. In certain implementations appropriate medical professionals may be notified such as by a case alert based on predefined event triggers or rules maintained by a medical information management system.

As shown in the illustrated embodiment case summary interface includes case summary tabs and a case details list . These components of case summary interface facilitate quick data review of a case and also enable assumption of roles and role handoffs. As shown case summary tabs include a number of tabs for interacting with case summary interface . For example as shown a contextual return tab may receive a user selection to return to a graphical case board interface. In addition other shown tabs such as the preparation or assist tab the supervise or direct tab and the provide care tab may receive selections through a user interface for assuming a role or handing off roles between medical professionals. Case details list displays specific information corresponding to the case in list form including patient information and medical history. Case details list may also present a sequence of medical events corresponding to events that have occurred with respect to a case and any other informational items relevant to the case.

While case summary interface is demonstrated as including specific components and displaying particular information it should be understood that various embodiments may operate using any suitable arrangement and collection of components having any appropriate display format and such arrangements and components may be configurable by a particular medical practice or anesthesia care location.

Although the present disclosure describes several embodiments it should be understood that a myriad of changes substitutions and alterations can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

