---

title: Configuring component carriers in carrier aggregation
abstract: Technology for configuring, activating and deactivating component carriers in carrier aggregation is disclosed. One method comprises configuring a Primary Component Carrier (PCC) as a primary component carrier pair comprising a downlink primary component carrier (DL PCC) and an uplink primary component carrier (UL PCC). At least one Secondary Component Carrier is configured at the eNode B as a secondary component carrier pair comprising a downlink secondary component carrier (DL SCC) and an uplink component carrier (UL SCC) based on a carrier aggregation capability of a selected UE. An activation and deactivation of each SCC is communicated from the eNode B to the UE with a bitmap carried by a media access control (MAC) control element. A bit set to “1” denotes activation of a corresponding SCC at the UE. A bit set to “0” denotes deactivation of a corresponding SCC at the UE.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08537718&OS=08537718&RS=08537718
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08537718
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
Priority of U.S. Provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 330 837 filed on May 3 2010 is claimed and which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The use of wireless communication devices continues to become more ubiquitous in modern societies. The substantial increase in the use of wireless devices is driven in part by the devices increasing abilities. While wireless devices were once used only to communicate voice and text their ability to display audiovisual presentations has driven the need to be able to transmit and receive pictures information related to games television movies and so forth.

One way of increasing the amount of data that can be communicated is through the use of carrier aggregation. Carriers are signals in permitted frequency domains onto which information is placed. The amount of information that can be placed on a carrier is determined by the carrier s bandwidth. The permitted frequency domains are often limited in bandwidth. The bandwidth limitations become more severe when a large number of users are simultaneously using the bandwidth in the permitted frequency domains.

Carrier aggregation enables multiple carrier signals to be simultaneously communicated between a user s wireless device and a base station. Multiple different carriers can be used. In some instances the carriers may be from different permitted frequency domains. This provides a broader choice to the wireless devices enabling more bandwidth to be obtained. The greater bandwidth can be used to communicate bandwidth intensive operations such as streaming video or large data files.

Various wireless standards have been drafted that enable wireless communication devices to be interoperable. However the wireless standards are not complete in defining the information that needs to be exchanged between wireless devices and base stations to allow carrier aggregation to take place in a mobile wireless communication system.

Reference will now be made to the exemplary embodiments illustrated and specific language will be used herein to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the invention is thereby intended.

Before the present invention is disclosed and described it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to the particular structures process steps or materials disclosed herein but is extended to equivalents thereof as would be recognized by those ordinarily skilled in the relevant arts. It should also be understood that terminology employed herein is used for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting.

As used herein the term substantially refers to the complete or nearly complete extent or degree of an action characteristic property state structure item or result. For example an object that is substantially enclosed would mean that the object is either completely enclosed or nearly completely enclosed. The exact allowable degree of deviation from absolute completeness may in some cases depend on the specific context. However generally speaking the nearness of completion will be so as to have the same overall result as if absolute and total completion were obtained. The use of substantially is equally applicable when used in a negative connotation to refer to the complete or near complete lack of an action characteristic property state structure item or result.

An initial overview of technology embodiments is provided below and then specific technology embodiments are described in further detail later. This initial summary is intended to aid readers in understanding the technology more quickly but is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the technology nor is it intended to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter. The following definitions are provided for clarity of the overview and embodiments described below.

In existing spectrum allocation policies and the relatively narrow frequency bands that are currently available for wireless telephony it can be difficult to allocate continuous large bandwidths such as bandwidths of 100 MHz. The use of carrier aggregation enables multiple different carriers to be combined to enable greater bandwidths to be used to increase wireless communication speeds.

Wireless mobile communication technology uses various standards and protocols to transmit data between a base transceiver station BTS and a wireless mobile device. In the third generation partnership project 3GPP long term evolution LTE standard the BTS is a combination of evolved Node Bs eNode Bs or eNBs and Radio Network Controllers RNCs in a Universal Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN which communicates with the wireless mobile device known as a user equipment UE . Data is transmitted from the eNode B to the UE via a physical downlink shared channel PDSCH . As a UE changes positions i.e. moves the UE can be moved from one eNode B to another. The process of moving between nodes is typically referred to as handover. The handover process typically occurs in a seamless fashion so that a user does not even realize it occurs. The eNode B that provides communication services such as the PDSCH to a UE is referred to as the serving eNode B.

While the terminology of the 3GPP LTE standard is used throughout this specification it is not intended to be limiting. A UE configured to communicate with an eNode B is considered to be synonymous with a generic radio frequency mobile communication device configured to communicate with a base station unless otherwise noted.

In one embodiment of carrier aggregation CA in the 3GPP LTE standard component carriers CCs for a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network can be combined together to form a larger bandwidth for the UE as illustrated in . For example the UMTS may have a system bandwidth of 100 MHz in a frequency spectrum with each CC having a 20 MHz bandwidth. Each CC may comprise a plurality of subcarriers . Some UEs may use the entire 100 MHz system bandwidth by aggregating five 20 MHz CCs together to achieve a 100 MHz UE bandwidth .

In another example two UEs and each with a 40 MHz bandwidth capability may each use two 20 MHz CCs together to achieve a 40 MHz UE bandwidth for each UE. In another example each UE and may use a single 20 MHz CC to achieve a 20 MHz UE bandwidth . The CCs at an eNode B may be aggregated for some UEs while other UEs may use a single CC during the same interval. For example one UE with a 40 MHz bandwidth may be configured while three UEs that each use a single 20 MHz CC are employed in a 100 MHz bandwidth system not shown . Carrier aggregation allows the bandwidth for a UE to be adjusted and adapted by an eNode B based on the wireless communication system s limitations the UEs capabilities and bandwidth requirements the bandwidth available to the system and or loading of other UEs on the system.

Each UMTS may use a different carrier bandwidth as illustrated in . For example the 3GPP LTE Release 8 Rel 8 carrier bandwidths and Release 10 Rel 10 CC bandwidths can include 1.4 MHz 3 MHz 5 MHz 10 MHz 15 MHz and 20 MHz . The 1.4 MHz CC can include 6 Resource Blocks RBs comprising 72 subcarriers. Each RB can include twelve 15 kHz subcarriers on the frequency axis and 6 or 7 orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM symbols per subcarrier. The 3 MHz CC can include 15 RBs comprising 180 subcarriers. The 5 MHz CC can include 25 RBs comprising 300 subcarriers. The 10 MHz CC can include 50 RBs comprising 600 subcarriers. The 15 MHz CC can include 75 RBs comprising 900 subcarriers. The 20 MHz CC can include 100 RBs comprising 1200 subcarriers. These examples are not intended to be limiting. Carrier aggregation can be accomplished using additional schemes with different bandwidths and different numbers of subcarriers in each CC.

Each eNode B can have a plurality of different carriers. For instance the eNode B may have five separate carriers. Each carrier can have a specific bandwidth and center frequency. The carriers may be located in the same frequency band or different frequency bands.

In one embodiment an eNode B can be configured to broadcast or unicast information regarding its available carriers. For instance information may be communicated using Radio Resource Control RRC signaling regardless of the carrier aggregation support of each UE being served by the eNode B. RRC signaling is defined in Release 8 and further defined in Release 9 of the 3GPP LTE Standard though use of the term is intended to be inclusive of future standards releases as well.

Each available carrier for an eNode B may be assigned an eNode B specific carrier index eNB CI by the eNode B. That is the CI is specific to the eNode B. If a UE is handed over to another eNode B a new eNB CI will be assigned that eNode B. The eNB CI can be used for future referencing by the eNode B.

If the information about available carriers is static and the same across a network then the information can be provided to the UE following network entry and during provisioning of the UE. During network entry the UE can provide the eNode B with its carrier aggregation capabilities. The UE s carrier aggregation capabilities include a maximum number of carriers that can be accepted. The maximum number of carriers can be defined for both the uplink UL and the downlink DL . In one embodiment the UE may be configured to accept the same number of uplink and downlink component carriers. Alternatively a greater number of UL or DL CCs may be applied. For instance the UE may be configured to use 3 UL CCs and 5 DL CCs.

The capabilities of the UE can also include the bandwidth of each carrier that the UE is capable of accepting. As previously discussed carriers with a number of different bandwidths may be used by the eNode B. The UE can also communicate to the eNode B which different frequency band classes are supported. For example Global System for Mobile Communications GSM compatible phones may operate at frequency bands with center frequencies at 380 410 450 480 710 750 810 850 900 1800 and 1900 MHz. Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS compatible phones may operate at 700 800 850 900 1500 1700 1800 1900 2100 and 2600 MHz when using frequency division duplexing FDD . Other types of mobile phones can operate at additional frequencies and frequency bands as can be appreciated. Each country typically specifies which bands may be used within the country for mobile telephony.

The information about each UE s capabilities can be maintained and provided to the serving eNode B during network entry or as part of RRC level carrier configuration messaging when such configuration is initiated by the eNode B.

When a UE that is configured to operate in a manner that is consistent with the 3GPP LTE Rel 8 9 procedures is powered on then the UE is typically configured to scan select and attach to one of the available carriers provided by an eNode B. It can be assumed that all RRC IDLE mode procedures are handled by each UE consistent with the 3GPP LTE Rel 8 9 procedures as well.

The carrier selected by the UE for attachment to the eNode B can be considered the initial and default carrier referred to herein as the Primary Component Carrier PCC . All other carriers used by the eNode B can be referred to as Secondary Component Carriers SCC . A UE s PCC may be changed for a variety of purposes. For instance the PCC may be changed due to load balancing interference management or other link level preferences. The change can be effected through the use of RRC level carrier configuration updates without using network level signaling.

The PCC can carry system information such as paging and RRC messaging for each UE s state and mobility management. The information may be broadcast or unicast. In one embodiment the system information can be exchanged between the eNode B and each UE consistent with 3GPP LTE Rel 8 9 procedures. The RRC messages to each UE can be sent to the UE through other active carriers if the messages are part of the physical downlink control channel PDCCH information. A physical downlink control channel PDCCH is used to transfer downlink control information DCI that informs the UE about resource allocations or scheduling related to downlink resource assignments on the PDSCH uplink resource grants and uplink power control commands. The PDCCH can be transmitted prior to the PDSCH in each subframe transmitted from the eNode B to the UE.

The PCC can be configured and activated by default. The carrier that is selected by the UE for attachment to the eNode B at power up can be designated as the PCC. The PCC can remain activated while the UE is in an RRC Connected mode. The PCC can be changed dynamically for purposes such as load balancing interference link optimization and so forth. A change in the PCC can be initiated by the eNode B or requested by the UE. The change in PCC is not specifically discussed in the 3GPP LTE Rel 8 9 versions of the standard.

In one embodiment a security key update for a PCC change can be implemented. For instance the PCC change can follow a handover procedure such as the procedure laid out in the 3GPP Rel 8 9. The PCC change can be carried out in a manner that enables the change to be substantially transparent to upper layers of the network.

The PCC can be comprised of a downlink portion and an uplink portion. The DL PCC can be paired with an UL CC that carries the random access channel RACH and the physical uplink control channel PUCCH associated with the CCs for each active downlink. Alternatively other carriers of the eNode B can be configured to carry additional RACH s or PUCCH s based on the services needed by the UE and based on the UE s capabilities.

In one embodiment an eNode B that is configured to support carrier aggregation can provide an attached UE with scheduling information SI about alternative secondary component carriers in that eNode B using a high level signaling mechanism such as RRC signaling or another type of layer two or layer three signaling. The eNode B can communicate configuration information about each component carrier to the UEs that are being served by the eNode B. When the UE receives this information each alternative component carrier can be treated as a configured component carrier. This enables the UE to quickly activate configured component carriers. The configured component carrier s resources can be scheduled for carrier aggregation as needed. The carrier configuration information can be valid within an eNode B. Component Carriers are typically configured as DL and UL component carrier pairs. Each component carrier pair and its corresponding resources can be referred to as a serving cell for the UE. Thus component carrier configuration may also be considered as cell configuration.

In one embodiment carrier configuration information can be extended to be changed for another eNode B during handover procedures. A next eNode B can be referred to as a target eNode B. The component carrier configuration information can be communicated to the target eNode B as part of component carrier pre configuration which may be integrated with handover signaling.

The component carrier configuration information can include radio layer information for the uplink and downlink for each component carrier cell . For example the information can include details regarding the UL and DL component carriers center frequency bandwidth duplex mode and eNode B specific carrier index. The duplex mode may be time division duplex TDD or frequency division duplex FDD . In addition the duplex mode may be different for a component carrier s UL and DL. For instance the UL may have a TDD duplex mode while the downlink may have an FDD duplex mode and vice versa.

The component carrier configuration information may be broadcast or sent through dedicated RRC signaling by the eNode B. To reduce the signaling overhead used for subsequent reconfiguration and activation or deactivation each configured carrier can also be assigned a UE specific configured physical carrier index CI . The UE specific CI can be used for subsequent references to that carrier in future layer 2 or layer 3 messaging such as RRC signaling.

In one embodiment the eNode B can be configured to broadcast component carrier information that is common to a plurality of the UEs served by the eNode B. Alternatively broadcasting of component carrier configuration information may only be done when the information applies to all of the UEs served by the eNode B. Component carrier information that is UE specific can be communicated using dedicated radio resource communication signaling such as RRC signaling or another type of unicast signaling. For instance information such as a component carrier s center frequency the carrier s bandwidth and the carrier s eNode B specific CI is the same for all UEs served by the eNode B. This information can be broadcast by the eNode B. The ability to broadcast this information can significantly reduce signaling overhead. UE specific information such as the duplex mode for a specific UL or DL and a UE specific configured physical carrier index for a component carrier can be communicated to the desired UE using RRC signaling or another form of layer 2 or layer 3 signaling.

Once carriers are configured they can be selected by the eNode B for a UE based on the UE s capabilities. For instance the eNode B can take into account the number of component carriers for both uplink and downlink that the UE can support the maximum bandwidth the UE can support the frequency bands the UE is capable of operating in and so forth.

The carrier configuration may be deferred until wireless service between a specific UE and the eNode B requires or benefits from carrier aggregation. This determination can be made by the eNode B based on the UE s communication needs. The UE s communication needs can be based on information such as the desired Quality of Service QoS bandwidth needs and so forth.

One or more component carriers that are configured for a specific UE can have its configuration changed in a process referred to as carrier reconfiguration. Carrier reconfiguration is an RRC procedure to change one or more of the configured carriers and or a parameter of a configured carrier in the specific UE s set of configured component carriers.

Once the carriers have been configured for a specific UE and before the configured carriers have been assigned to the UE by the eNode B the specific UE can perform signal strength measurements for each configured component carrier between the UE and the eNode B. In one embodiment the measurements can be similar to mobility based measurements. The threshold for triggering such measurements may be specifically defined for a configured component carrier set management by the eNode B.

In one embodiment the measurements may be radio resource management RRM type measurements. The RRM measurements may be a reference symbol received power RSRP measurement a reference symbol received quality RSSQ measurement a carrier received signal strength indicator RSSI measurement or another type of measurement operable to provide an averaged measurement of the link quality. In one embodiment the RRM measurements may be averaged for approximately 200 milliseconds to reduce the effects of rapid changes in the component carrier signals. The set of configured carriers for the specific UE can be determined and dynamically managed through RRC signaling based on the UE s capabilities and signal strength measurement reports from the specific UE to the eNode B for each configured component carrier.

Component carrier configuration also includes information about DL UL paring as well as DL UL control channel mapping and relevance across the component carriers.

Each configured component carrier can include a DL CC paired with a corresponding UL CC. In one embodiment the default pairing between each DL CC and the corresponding UL CC can be based on the 3GPP LTE Release 8 9 standards and reflected in System Information Block SIB messaging. However such pairing may be changed as part of the CC configuration for a specific UE. For example DL UL paring options can support many to one DL to UL configurations and many to one UL to DL configurations. For each configured carrier pair the carrier for which the PDCCH is transmitted can also be defined.

There can be two PDCCH mapping monitoring options. In one embodiment for each active DL CC the carrier on which the corresponding PDCCH is transmitted is explicitly defined during the RRC CA configuration process. The definition can apply in all subsequent scheduling activation and deactivation. Such cross carrier PDCCH mapping configuration may be changed if needed through a CC reconfiguration procedure.

In another embodiment for each active DL or UL CC the PDCCH carrying the DL UL scheduling information is either transmitted on the same CC or the PCC as specified in the RRC CA configuration process.

In either embodiment the UE can know following configuration on which activated carrier it should monitor the PDCCH. This enables the UE to reduce the number of carriers on which blind detection of the PDCCH is required thereby reducing the time and processing power needed to determine the DCI at the UE.

Similarly two different options are available for feedback channel mapping. In one embodiment for each PDSCH transmission the PUCCH carrying feedback information can be transmitted on the UL CC that is paired with the DL CC carrying the corresponding PDCCH.

In another embodiment the PUCCH for all PDSCH transmissions on all DL active CCs is transmitted on the UL CC associated with the PCC. This embodiment can be preferred for cases in which the UE may not have multiple UL CCs and or when transmission on multiple UL CCs would impact link level performance.

In the ability to pair UL and DL flexibly is illustrated. For instance the UL CC for carrier is linked with the DL CC for carrier to form a cell. Similarly the UL CC for carrier is linked with the DL CC for carrier to form a cell. In another embodiment the DL CC for carrier is linked with the UL CC for carrier . Thus this cell comprises an UL and a DL from two different carriers. The carriers may be adjacent or may have center frequencies at different parts of the radio spectrum. The UL and DL may even be located in different frequency bands. The carriers may also be duplexed using different schemes such as FDD or TDD.

A physical hybrid ARQ Automatic Repeat request indicator channel PHICH is a transmission channel that can carry information that confirms or requests the retransmission of blocks of data that were received incorrectly at the receiving device. For UL transmissions the PHICH can be carried by the same carrier which contains the PDCCH for the corresponding UL grant.

UE specific pairing can be defined if it is different than the default pairing based on the 3GPP LTE Release 8 9 standards and reflected in the System Information Block SIB messaging. For each DL CC the configuration defines the corresponding UL carrier.

The PHICH can be sent on the same carrier where the PDCCH is transmitted for both the DL CC and the UL CC in the example in the preceeding paragraph.

For each secondary component carrier SCC a DL configured carrier for a given UE can be linked to one UL configured carrier. The linking can apply for all UL control feedback channel mechanisms including power control PUCCH RACH if configured and non CIF scheduling.

Once a component carrier has been configured activation of the configured carrier can be performed at the layer 2 L2 layer. For example activation may be performed using the media access control MAC layer through MAC control elements. Activation is a procedure that is typically used more frequently than configuration and less frequently than scheduling. There is little room for carrier aggregation specific information to be carried by MAC control elements during configuration and even less room during scheduling. Therefore only parameters which are least likely to be changed upon activation or scheduling are typically passed to the UE through configuration.

In one embodiment deactivation of a carrier can be explicit and combined with activation of another carrier. An activated carrier may also be deactivated implicitly after no data is scheduled on that carrier for a predefined period of time. The predefined period of time can be set during the configuration activation phase.

The activation information can include a list of configured CCs to be activated and a list of activated CCs to be deactivated. In one embodiment the list can be implemented using a bitmap. The bitmap can comprise an ordered list in which each CC is assigned a location on the list. The location at which a CC is assigned on the list can be selected as desired. For instance a CC may be assigned a location on the list based on the order in which the CC is activated the CC s center frequency the CC s carrier index CI value or another process to assign a CC a unique location on the list. The activation or deactivation of a CC can then be carried out in a binary fashion by sending one binary number to represent Activate and another binary number to represent deactivate .

For example in carrier configuration each carrier can be assigned a carrier index value. An eNode B may have 5 configured carriers with carrier index values and . The carriers can be assigned to a bitmap based on their carrier index value with the lowest value listed first. A UE may be assigned carriers and . The bitmap can be the same length as the number of carriers used by a UE. Thus the bitmap for the UE is comprised of four binary numbers with the value of each number selected to represent the state of the carrier. A bitmap of 1111 may represent activation of each carrier. A bitmap of 0000 may represent an explicit deactivation of each carrier. A bitmap value of 0101 may be used to activate carriers and while deactivating carriers and for the UE. Thus the bitmap can be used to simultaneously turn on selected configured carriers while turning other carriers off. While the binary value 1 is represented to activate a carrier and the value 0 is represented to deactivate a carrier this is not considered to be limitation. The opposite binary values may be used to represent activation and deactivation as can be appreciated.

The use of a bitmap can significantly reduce overhead. Multiple bits are not needed to identify the carrier value and the desired state of the carrier. The UE and the eNode B merely need to both understand which position each carrier is assigned to in the bitmap. A single bit can then be transmitted to activate or deactivate a component carrier. In one embodiment the single bit can be used to activate or deactivate a cell comprising a UL CC and a DL CC. The UL CC and DL CC may be in different carriers.

In one embodiment activation messages can be carried on the PCC and may also be sent on other carriers if they are configured to transmit PDCCH. A response to an activation message may be sent from the UE before activation takes effect and allows one or more carriers to be scheduled to carry data. An activation confirmation from the UE to the eNode B can also follow the same bitmap layout. The response can indicate which CCs have been successfully activated.

Once a CC has been activated at a UE the UE can transmit a fast measurement of channel quality to the eNode B. For instance a channel quality indicator CQI or other type of fast feedback channel can be communicated to the eNode B to indicate receive channel quality conditions on each carrier.

The activation process may be combined with the configuration process if all of the configured carriers need to be activated. In this embodiment configuration may be deferred until the eNode B obtains sufficient measurements from the UE on the strength of available carriers to ensure that the candidate carrier is viable for activation before it is configured and activated.

When the UE enters a network served by the eNode B a communication from the eNode B can be sent to the UE identifying the available carriers in the network. The carrier selected by the UE for attachment to the eNode B can be considered the initial and default carrier referred to as the Primary Component Carrier PCC . All other carriers used by the eNode B are referred to as Secondary Component Carriers SCC .

The UE and eNode B can then communicate for network entry and negotiate the basic carrier aggregation capabilities of the UE. The UE can learn the types of carriers offered by the eNode B including frequency bandwidth and frequency band of the component carriers. The UE can communicate its CA capabilities to the eNode B including number of UL and DL CCs it can accept the bandwidths of each UL and DL the UE is capable of receiving and the frequency bands the UE is capable of operating in.

The UE can then communicate to the eNode B using RRC signaling. The UE can communicate the UE s supported CA configurations. For instance the candidate configured CCs.

The eNode B can then communicate to the UE specific carrier configuration information including CIF allocation DL UL pairing information PDCCH mapping information PUCCH mapping and so forth.

The UE can then communicate a scheduling request in the PCC. The scheduling request can occur as if the UE were operating in a single carrier mode without possible carrier aggregation. The eNode B can respond with a CC activation message . The CC activation message may be sent via MAC headers or in the DCI on the PDCCH of the PCC . As previously discussed activation may include a bitmap showing which headers are to be activated and deactivated. An activation confirmation may optionally be communicated .

Upon activation the UE can communicate with the eNode B on both the PCC and at least one SCC . The UE can provide CQI measurements for each active carrier to the eNode B. The CQI measurements may be sent via the PCC .

The eNode B can communicate resource allocation information on one or more PDCCHs using the PCC . Cross carrier allocation information can also be communicated using CIF. In one embodiment the PDCCH and cross carrier allocation information may also be sent from one or more SCC . PDSCH and PUSCH data transmissions can be communicated from the eNode B on the PCC and SCC s to the UE . The UE can communicate physical feedback channels on active carriers PCC and SCC . This is typically done only for downlink multiple carrier allocations only.

Finally CC deactivation messages can be communicated from the eNode B to the UE via the PCC . The deactivation messages may be explicit or implicit. For instance a deactivation message may implicitly be communicated if an activated CC has not used in a set amount of time such as two minutes.

The flow chart of is one example of a process in which CCs can be configured and activated for carrier aggregation on a UE. The example is not intended to be limiting. The process may involve additional steps and steps that occur in a different order than is listed in . In addition each step listed in may not be necessary each time a UE enters a network or is powered up.

Once the CCs have been configured the eNode B can activate a CC for a specific UE based on the needs of the UE such as Quality of Service QoS bandwidth and so forth. If it is possible to meet the UE s communication needs using a single carrier the eNode B may not assign additional carriers to the UE. However if additional carriers need to be used to meet the communication needs of the UE then additional carriers can be assigned based on carrier measurements conducted by the UE for the eNode B s carriers. The carrier can then be activated by the eNode B using L2 communication such as MAC.

The activated CC can remain activated until explicitly instructed to be deactivated using L2 communication such as MAC. Alternatively the CC may remain activated until implicit deactivation occurs due to inactivity on the CC for a specific period of time . A deactivated CC can have its configuration removed allowing the CC to be reconfigured using RRC signaling.

In another embodiment a method for configuring component carriers in carrier aggregation is disclosed as depicted in the flowchart of . The method comprises receiving a carrier aggregation capability from a selected user equipment UE at an enhanced Node B eNode B configured to provide service for a plurality of UEs within the eNode B s network. A plurality of component carriers are configured at the eNode B for the selected UE based on the carrier aggregation capability of the selected UE.

The method further comprises broadcasting from the eNode B component carrier a configuration message containing component carrier configuration information that is common to the plurality of UEs and communicating from the eNode B component carrier configuration information that is specific to one of the plurality of UEs using dedicated communication signaling to form configured component carriers. The dedicated communication signaling can be RRC signaling from the eNode B to the selected UE for each component carrier.

The configuration information that is broadcast for each component carrier can include the component carrier s center frequency bandwidth and duplex mode such as TDD or FDD. This configuration information may be further defined for an uplink UL and downlink DL for each CC. The broadcast configuration message can also include an eNode B specific carrier index. The dedicated communication signaling can include a UE specific configured physical carrier index provided in the dedicated communication signaling. Use of the eNode specific and UE specific carrier index values can reduce overhead when referencing each component carrier in communication between the eNode B and the plurality of UEs.

The method further comprises activating selected configured component carriers at the eNode B for the selected UE based on bandwidth and quality of service needs of the selected UE.

The method can also include reporting radio resource management RRM measurements of signal strength from each of the plurality of UEs to the eNode B for a plurality of component carriers available for carrier aggregation that are provided by the eNode B. The operation of activating selected configured component carriers at the eNode B for the selected UE can further comprise activating the selected configured components based on the RRM measurements provided by the selected UE following configuration.

The operation of communicating the selected UE s carrier aggregation capability can further comprise communicating from the selected UE at least one of a maximum number of component carriers supported for an uplink to the eNode B a maximum number of component carriers supported for a downlink from the eNode B a maximum bandwidth supported for the uplink and the downlink and support of selected frequency bands.

The method can further comprise attaching the selected UE to one of the component carriers and defining the component carrier as a primary component carrier. A downlink of the PCC and be selected to carry downlink control information DCI on a physical downlink control channel PDCCH for the plurality of component carriers. In another embodiment a downlink component carrier of the plurality of component carriers can be selected to carry DCI on the PDCCH for the plurality of component carriers.

The method can further comprise selecting an uplink component carrier for each downlink component carrier to carry physical uplink shared channel PUSCH and uplink feedback information on a physical uplink control channel PUCCH . The uplink component carrier can be paired as part of carrier configuration with the downlink component carrier that is also carrying corresponding uplink assignments in the PDCCH. An uplink component carrier of the PCC can be selected to carry feedback information for each physical downlink shared channel PDSCH transmission on each downlink component carrier for the plurality of component carriers. A physical hybrid ARQ Automatic Repeat request indicator channel PHICH can be carried on the same component carrier used to carry a PDCCH.

Activating the selected configured component carriers can further comprise transmitting activation information as a media access control MAC control element from the eNode B to the selected UE for each component carrier. Activating and deactivating each component carrier for the selected UE can be accomplished using a bitmap transmitted from the eNode B to the UE. Bits in the bitmap can be mapped to an ordered list of indexes for the plurality of component carriers. A 1 value can be transmitted to activate a component carrier and a 0 value can be transmitted to deactivate a component carrier. Alternatively the opposite binary values may also be used as can be appreciated. Activated component carriers can also be deactivated based on selected deactivation rules. The deactivation rules can include the amount of time a carrier has not been used to transmit data to a UE. After a selected amount of time the component carrier may be deactivated if it has not been used. Other rules can also be applied as can be appreciated.

In another embodiment a system for configuring component carriers in carrier aggregation is disclosed as depicted in the block diagram of . The system comprises a carrier aggregation module operating at an enhanced Node B eNode B that is configured to provide service for a plurality of UEs. The eNode B is configured to receive a carrier aggregation capability from a carrier configuration module operating at a selected user equipment UE .

The carrier aggregation module operating at the eNode B is operable to configure a plurality of component carriers at the eNode B for the selected UE based on the carrier aggregation capability of the selected UE and broadcast from the eNode B a component carrier configuration message containing component carrier configuration information that is common to the plurality of UEs. For eNode B component carrier configuration information that is specific to the selected UE the eNode B can communicate i.e. unicast the specific component carrier information to the selected UE. For instance dedicated communication signaling may be used. The module is further configured to activate selected configured component carriers at the eNode B for the selected UE based on at least one of quality of service needs and bandwidth of the selected UE.

It should be understood that many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. For example a module may be implemented as a hardware circuit comprising custom VLSI circuits or gate arrays off the shelf semiconductors such as logic chips transistors or other discrete components. A module may also be implemented in programmable hardware devices such as field programmable gate arrays programmable array logic programmable logic devices or the like.

Modules may also be implemented in software for execution by various types of processors. An identified module of executable code may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may for instance be organized as an object procedure or function. Nevertheless the executables of an identified module need not be physically located together but may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations which when joined logically together comprise the module and achieve the stated purpose for the module.

Indeed a module of executable code may be a single instruction or many instructions and may even be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Similarly operational data may be identified and illustrated herein within modules and may be embodied in any suitable form and organized within any suitable type of data structure. The operational data may be collected as a single data set or may be distributed over different locations including over different storage devices and may exist at least partially merely as electronic signals on a system or network. The modules may be passive or active including agents operable to perform desired functions.

Various techniques or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing the various techniques. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device may include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may implement or utilize the various techniques described herein may use an application programming interface API reusable controls and the like. Such programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s may be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary. In addition various embodiments and example of the present invention may be referred to herein along with alternatives for the various components thereof. It is understood that such embodiments examples and alternatives are not to be construed as defacto equivalents of one another but are to be considered as separate and autonomous representations of the present invention.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of materials fasteners sizes lengths widths shapes etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

While the forgoing examples are illustrative of the principles of the present invention in one or more particular applications it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that numerous modifications in form usage and details of implementation can be made without the exercise of inventive faculty and without departing from the principles and concepts of the invention. Accordingly it is not intended that the invention be limited except as by the claims set forth below.

