---

title: Multidirectional target detecting system and method
abstract: A method and system for investigating and displaying an image of an area of interest comprising a moving vehicle; at least one processor for producing an image of the area of interest; at least one first transmitter for emitting first signals substantially in a first direction, the at least one first transmitter being operatively associated with the moving vehicle and the processor; at least one first receiver for receiving backscattered signals resulting from the first radar signals, the at least one first receiver being operatively associated with the moving vehicle and the processor; at least one second transmitter operatively for emitting second signals in a direction substantially opposite to the first direction, the at least one second transmitter being operatively associated with the moving vehicle and the processor; at least one second receiver for receiving backscattered signals resulting from the second signals, the at least one second receiver being operatively associated with the moving vehicle and the processor, a GPS subsystem for providing position data relating to the position of the vehicle; the at least one first receiver and the at least one second receiver operating to provide image data to the at least one processor; the at least one processor operating to combine image data from the at least one first receiver and the at least one second receiver with the position data to form a single image; and a display to display the combined image data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08624773&OS=08624773&RS=08624773
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08624773
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101109
---
The embodiments herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to target detecting and in particular to multidirectional target detection and aerial surveillance.

Synthetic Aperture Radar SAR systems have been utilized for many years for various applications and are well known for providing high resolution. For instance SAR systems are well known as for identifying objects out of deliberate or natural clutter to provide a variety of functions including area mapping surveillance and target detection. Further these systems can be used from the ground i.e. ground based SAR systems as well as from the air airborne SAR systems and exploit the motion of an aircraft or vehicle simulating a large antenna by combining return radar data along the flight path. This simulation is called the synthetic aperture.

Generally airborne SAR systems are typically side looking radars which produce two dimensional 2 D images of the earth s surface that are perpendicular to the aircraft path of flight and located on one side of the aircraft. One dimension in the image is called range i.e. cross track and is a measurement of the line of sight distance from the radar to the target. Range measurements are determined by measuring the time from transmission of a pulse to receiving the echo from a target. Additionally range resolution is determined by the transmitted pulse width. Cross range resolution is achieved by coherently integrating the radar return signals along the flight path.

An example of a SAR system is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 796 829 hereby incorporated by reference entitled Method and system for forming an image with enhanced contrast and or reduced noise listing as inventors the same coinventors as the present application and filed on Dec. 10 2008 and being assigned to The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army.

To study the capabilities and limitations of utilizing the ultra wideband UWB radar technology for the detection of concealed targets the Army Research Laboratory ARL implemented different versions of UWB low frequency SAR. A version of the UWB SAR radar that ARL designed and built is the vehicle based radar which is discussed in detail in the publication by Marc Ressler Lam Nguyen Francois Koenig David Wong and Gregory Smith entitled The Army Research Laboratory ARL Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction SIRE Forward Looking Radar Proceedings of SPIE Unmanned Systems Technology IX Vol. 6561 May 2007 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. It is to be appreciated that the radar can be configured in both forward looking and side looking SAR modes.

Conventional side looking SAR systems are designed such that the radar is typically mounted on an airborne vehicle e.g. aircraft whereby the transmitting and receiving antennas typically face the direction perpendicular to the flight path. Through signal processing the reflected radar signals along the flight path are combined to form the SAR image for the area that exists along only one side of the reflected image.

Additionally shows an illustration of a conventional forward looking SAR system mounted to an airborne vehicle used to survey a long strip of an area of interest . The radar might be able to receive return signals from some small sections of targets and along the flight path but may not capture the return signals from targets and .

As such an ultra wideband radar system is needed that can radiate and receive energy in all directions thereby employing an array of antennas having the capability to capture the return radar signals in all directions.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a system for investigating an area of interest to display a SAR image in a single pass including a radar platform mounted on a mobile vehicle a radar antenna array including a first group of antenna elements including at least one transmitting element and a plurality of receiving elements and a second group of antenna elements including at least one transmitting element and a plurality of receiving elements wherein the first group may transmit a first group of signals and receive a first group of backscatter signals in a forward direction and the second group may transmit a second group of signals and receive a second group of backscatter signals in a backward direction a first group of receiving modules to capture and digitize the return radar signals in a forward direction and a second group of receiving modules to capture and digitize the return radar signals in a backward direction a processor in communication with the radar receivers to process the first and second group of signals and produce a first and second image respectively a GPS system to measure the radar position logged by the radar platform an image combiner part of the processor to combine the first and said second images and a display to display the combined image from the first and second combined images.

The image may be either a 2 D or 3 D image. The system enables the detection of directional targets see e.g. in a single pass.

Each of the transmitting elements may include a transmitter and a transmitting antenna and each of the receiving elements may include a receiver and a receiving antenna.

The number of the receiving elements in the first group of antenna elements may be equal to half of the total number of the receiving elements and the number of receiving elements in the second group of antenna elements may be equal to half of a total number of the receiving elements.

Each of the receiving antenna elements may be positioned in an adjacent array and separated equidistant.

The cross range resolution of the system may be provided by the receiving elements and the radar platform and the motion of the vehicle.

Each of the receiving antennas may collect electromagnetic backscatter signals and feed the data to the respective receiver whereby the respective receiver captures and digitizes the radar signals into digital signals.

The processor may perform data processing on the digital signals including removal of interference motion compensation filtering and forming and combining SAR imagery.

Another exemplary embodiment may include a method for investigating an area of interest including mounting a radar platform and a radar antenna array on a mobile ground or airborne vehicle transmitting a first group of signals and receiving a first group of backscatter signals in a forward direction from the radar antenna array 

The method may further include collecting backscatter radar signals via said receiving antennas and feeding said data to the respective receiver whereby the respective receiver converts the radar signals into digital signals.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a SAR system capable of among other things area mapping forming two dimensional 2 D and three dimensional 3 D imagery for the detection of targets under foliage targets with high directional reflectivity obstacles for robotic navigation and mapping of internal building structures. In similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures.

Angular resolution is determined by the size of the receiving antenna array and the synthetic aperture generated by the motion of the vehicle. At a given range the ability to resolve objects or targets in the cross range direction is known as the cross range resolution. Similarly the ability to resolve objects or targets in the down range direction is known as down range resolution.

The down range resolution of the SAR system according to the present invention is generally provided by the bandwidth of the transmitted pulse from transmitting elements having a wide range of frequency. The cross range resolution is provided by both the array of receiving elements and the radar generated by the moving platform. Additionally as discussed above the radar antenna array includes two symmetrical sub systems a first or forward looking group of antenna elements and second or backward looking group of antenna elements. As shown in each group may include two transmitting elements e.g. a transmitter and transmitting antenna and eight receiving elements e.g. a receiver and receiving antenna . Each receiving antenna feeds its own receiver and functions essentially as a digitizing system. To that end each receiving antenna feeds an analog signal or data to each receiver which in turn converts or processes the analog data or signal in digitized form. The digitized data generated from each receiver of each receiving element is combined and sent to processor which then performs data processing tasks on the digitized signal e.g. removal of interference from the digitized backprojection signal motion compensation filtering and forming SAR imagery using known image processing techniques as outlined in Signal and Image Processing Algorithms for the Army Research Lab Ultra Wideband Synchronous Impulse Reconstruction UWB SIRE Radar Army Research Laboratory Technical Report ARL TR 4784 2009 by Lam Nguyen which is incorporated herein by reference. is a block diagram of the overall processing steps for the SIRE radar data in the forward looking mode. and are the block diagrams of the processing of radar position data including GPS data for post GPS processing and real time GPS processing modes respectively. As described in further detail in ARL Technical Report ARL TR 4784 the radar may employ two Ashtech Z surveyor GPS units in the differential mode to track the radar location that is necessary for the image formation algorithm. The GPS measurement system consists of two subsystems a rover station whose antenna is located with the radar s antenna frame and a base station at a fixed location in the field. GPS data are recorded by both the rover receiver and the base station receiver. Both units operate independently and continuously track as many as 12 channels of satellites in orbit. The ARL radar system supports the data collection in two modes post processing and real time. In the post processing mode measurements from the rover receiver are recorded independently and the GPS data stream from each receiver is recorded in its own flash memory. To synchronize the GPS measurement with the radar operation the SIRE data acquisition and control system sends a trigger pulse to the rover receiver at the midpoint of each data acquisition cycle. In response to the trigger signal the rover receiver reports back to the data acquisition system with the GPS time tag via the RS232 interface. The data acquisition then embeds this GPS time tag information into the radar data stream for synchronization purpose. After the radar measurement operation is completed data from the GPS rover and base station receivers are differentially processed using the Wavepoint s GrafNav software to generate the position data within an accuracy of a few centimeters. With the differentially processed GPS data available the radar x y z coordinates can be computed that are synchronized with the radar data measurements by using the GPS time tags embedded in the radar data stream and performing the table lookup and interpolation of the GPS data. In real time mode both the rover and the base station receivers record the GPS data independently as in the post processing mode however data from the base station are sent to the rover via a radio frequency RF link. The rover receiver then combines its measured data with the base station receiver data and differentially processes them to generate accurate GPS position information in real time. The two data stream GPS time tags and the differentially processed GPS data are sent to the data acquisition and control system by the rover receiver via two RS 232 interfaces. As in the post processing mode the radar signal and image processor computes the radar x y z coordinates that are synchronized with the radar data measurements by using the GPS time tags and performing the table lookup and interpolation processes. The difference is that the table lookup and interpolation of the GPS data are performed in real time in this case. Once the radar position information is available the coordinates of the two transmitters and the receivers must be derived as required by the imaging process. Note that the GPS coordinates that were measured and computed only represent the positions of one point on the vehicle which is the GPS rover antenna. The rover antenna may be located at approximately the center of a radar receiver antenna array. Since the locations of the transmitter antennas and the receiver antennas have fixed offsets in three dimensions with respect to the rover antenna in theory it is possible to derive the coordinates of all transmit and receive antennas from the coordinates of the rover antenna. However in practice the motion of the vehicle usually does not follow a straight path. Three components of the velocity vector are required to estimate the coordinates of all individual antennas. Among these three components the heading information from the velocity vector is most important since a small variation in the heading results in a large error. For example a change of 5 in the heading corresponds to a shift of 1.75 m for the imaging pixels 20 m in front of the vehicle. The phase coherency between data frames will be degraded and the quality of the resulting SAR image will suffer. However using the radar position data the heading information of the platform can be estimated and then use this information to estimate the coordinates for the transmit antennas and the receive antennas. A simple smoothing filter or a more sophisticated Kalman filter can be used to filter the position data and estimate the heading information.

Referring to examples of processor may include but are not limited to a computer central processing unit CPU microprocessor multiprocessor main frame computer personal computer or laptop computer. After image processing a SAR image is generated. The GPS sub system measures the radar position at each data acquisition cycle logged by the moving platform which is vital for the generation of the SAR imagery. Timing control circuitry is responsible for coordinating the transmit and receive sequence that the radar operates. The SAR images from the forward looking sub system and backward looking sub system that are formed by processor are formed on the same imaging grid and are combined into a 2 D or 3 D SAR image via image combiner within processor and is then sent to display . The terminology forward looking image former backward image former and or image combiner are used in the general sense and may comprise individual components software components or subroutines or a single component which performs all of the functions. The forward looking image former backward image former and or image combiner may be performed by software on a single processor or computer or may be performed by multiple processors or computers.

As used herein the terminology relating to the emission or transmission of signals in opposing or opposite directions or substantially opposite is to be interpreted in the general sense in that the signals need not be transmitted in the exact opposite directions or that for each and every signal there is an exact opposite but instead is intended to mean that the general direction of one set of signals is generally opposite to the other set of signals.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the embodiments described herein may be embodied as The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

