---

title: Method for discovery and routing using a priori knowledge in the form of application programme within mobile ad-hoc networks
abstract: A mobile ad-hoc network device includes application software. The device constructs its routing table, listing reachable devices with the same application software. The routing table knowledge is dynamic, as devices enter and leave the network or their parameters change.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321587&OS=08321587&RS=08321587
owner: Intel Corporation
number: 08321587
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100222
---
This application is a continuation of prior application U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 035 463 titled METHOD FOR DISCOVERY AND ROUTING USING A PRIORI KNOWLEDGE IN THE FORM OF APPLICATION PROGRAMME WITHIN MOBILE AD HOC NETWORKS filed Oct. 18 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 668 958 which in turn is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 773 682 titled ENABLING RESTRICTED COMMUNICATIONS BETWEEN A PLURALITY OF USERS filed Jan. 31 2001 now abandoned and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 930 779 titled METHOD FOR DISCOVERY AND ROUTING USING BUDDY LISTS IN MOBILE AD HOC NETWORKS filed Aug. 15 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 060 013 and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 948 300 titled METHOD FOR RESTRICTED COMMUNICATIONS USING BUDDY LISTS IN MOBILE AD HOC NETWORKS filed Sep. 6 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 177 594 and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 948 270 titled METHOD FOR DISCOVERY AND ROUTING USING ATTRIBUTES IN MOBILE AD HOC NETWORKS filed Sep. 6 2001 now abandoned and to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 035 896 titled METHOD FOR DISCOVERY AND ROUTING WITHIN MOBILE AD HOC NETWORKS filed Oct. 18 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 190 961.

This invention pertains to mobile ad hoc networks and more particularly to managing a sub network of mobile ad hoc network devices.

The ability to communicate with others has always been an important function for people. First the telegraph and then the telephone revolutionized communication by making communication at a distance possible. The cellular telephone marked a further turning point in communication as people were no longer tied to a phone with a fixed physical location. And the more recent Bluetooth standard Specification of the Bluetooth System Version 1.1 Feb. 22 2001 and 802.11a standard IEEE Standard 802.11a 1999 available on the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers web site http standards.ieee.org reading ieee std lanman 802.11a 1999.pdf describe how wireless communication may be achieved using mobile devices.

Where mobile devices attempt to intercommunicate a mobile ad hoc network MANET is set up. In contrast to the typically envisioned computer network a MANET does not consist of separate servers and clients. Instead each mobile device acts as both client and server. That is each mobile device is responsible for not only sending messages on its own but also for routing messages. Further each mobile device needs to be able to route messages sent by a different device and bound for a different destination.

Each mobile device has a limited range for example Aaron s device has a range shown as a dashed circle. Thus not every other mobile device has a direct line of communication with every other device. For example Beth is within direct communications range of Aaron but Charlie is not within direct communications range of Aaron .

The intuitive approach for managing a MANET is to have each device be aware of all other devices in the MANET. shows a mobile ad hoc network established among the mobile ad hoc network devices of . As may be seen in Aaron may communicate directly with Beth Elizabeth Harry and Isis but may not communicate directly with Charlie or David . Nevertheless Aaron may communicate with Charlie or David through Beth or Isis respectively.

Even if a person is in the MANET he may not be reachable. For example consider Oscar . Even if Oscar s device is active within the network given Oscar s location Oscar may communicate with other devices in the MANET only through Mark . If Mark leaves the network e.g. by turning off his device Oscar may neither send nor receive messages from anyone else in the MANET.

There are three problems with the intuitive approach to managing a MANET. The first problem is bandwidth. As devices enter leave and move around the MANET the MANET is constantly changing. Requiring each device in the MANET to be aware of changes made by the entry departure or movement of a device would consume a great deal of the available bandwidth.

The second problem with the intuitive approach to managing a MANET is power. Mobile devices are by definition not tethered to a power source. That is the power source is mobile with the device. Typically this means battery power. Since battery power is limited and communicating within the network is power intensive having each device update itself as another device enters leaves or moves with the MANET may consume a large percentage of the available power.

The third problem with the intuitive approach to managing a MANET is complexity. As the number of devices in the MANET increases the number of routes through the MANET increases exponentially. For even a relatively small number of devices 100 is typically considered a sizeable MANET the time required to update a routing table for the MANET may take longer until another device enters leaves or moves within the MANET. In addition the space requirements for storing the routing table may quickly exceed the available space in the mobile device.

Mobile device includes among other components receiver transmitter microprocessor and memory . Receiver is used to receive communications from other nearby mobile devices. Transmitter is used to transmit communications to other nearby mobile devices. Although in a preferred embodiment receiver and transmitter are designed to operate wirelessly a person skilled in the art will recognize that receiver and transmitter may also be wire based. Microprocessor is used to control the internal operations of mobile device . And memory is used to store information of a temporary or semi permanent nature within mobile device .

In mobile device memory includes two particular items. First memory stores application software . Application software is some program of any nature that the user has chosen to install into mobile device . For example application software may be a word processing program used to draft and revise electronic documents which the user has used to create a document that he wishes to share with colleagues. Or application software may be a multi player game such as Doom which allow multiple people to play together in the same game. Doom is a registered trademark of id Software Inc. 

Memory also stores device list . Device list is a list of other devices with which mobile device may communicate. Referring back to if mobile device belongs to Aaron then device list might list the devices belonging to Beth David Joshua and Lisa as devices with which Aaron may communicate.

Note two things about device list . First note that not all devices may be listed. This may be explained in a number of ways. For example the non listed devices may be turned off so that they may not communicate. Or Aaron may specifically indicate the non listed devices as devices with which Aaron does not wish to communicate. Or the non listed devices may be reachable but not shown to Aaron because they are not part of a connected sub network to which Aaron belongs.

Second observe that not all the devices listed in device list may directly communicate with Aaron . For example Aaron may communicate with Lisa even though Lisa is not within range of Aaron . To send a message to Lisa Aaron sends a message to Joshua who then forwards the message to Lisa . Thus part of device list is an indication of the path to the intended recipient. Typically only the first leg of the path is stored as the intermediary recipients know how to communicate with the intended recipient on their own. But a person skilled in the art will recognize that device list may store a required path to the intended recipient.

Among the various operations managed by microprocessor is the management of device list . Specifically as devices enter leave or move around the MANET the possible recipients with which mobile device may vary. Movement within the MANET may be considered the same as a mobile device leaving the network at one point and entering the network at another point. Because movement may be managed as a combined entry exit for the mobile device the remainder of the description below will only refer to the entry and or exit of mobile devices from the MANET. Microprocessor is responsible for updating device list as microprocessor receives information about changes in the MANET.

In contrast to the general case using the intuitive approach to MANET management in an embodiment of the invention mobile device manages information about only a subset of the mobile devices. Specifically in an embodiment of the invention mobile device only keeps track of devices it may reach all of whom share common application software such as application software . For example if application software is Doom then microprocessor only tracks which devices within the MANET include Doom and are connected via other devices including the application software.

As devices enter the MANET they must inform other devices nearby about which application software packages they include. Otherwise it would be difficult for mobile device to determine the structure of sub networks as discussed below.

Redrawn in is range of Aaron . Note that David and Gina are outside range of Aaron but are part of sub network .

Assume for a moment that users Frank Joshua and Kathy do not have application software in question installed on their mobile devices. Then the device list in for example Aaron s device does not have to worry about routing to any other recipient other than those that are part of sub network . This keeps the size of the routing table small and manageable as opposed to the general solution to a MANET. Even if Mark has the application software installed on his mobile device there is no way to reach Mark since he is not part of sub network . So the routing table managed by Aaron does not even list Mark as a possible recipient. Mark may be a participant in a separate sub network using the application software but he is not part of sub network .

Note that what is controlled here is not the number of links among users but rather the number of users involved in sub network . If every one of users included the application software then network of would show the complete network of persons with the application software. But in general the percentage of nodes including common application software is relatively low and the percentage of contiguous nodes including the common application software is even lower. By curtailing the growth of the number of users the exponential growth in the management of the network is reigned in.

Now consider what happens if Kathy becomes active i.e. assume that her device was turned off before and now is turned on . When Kathy broadcasts her presence to users including any application software packages Kathy has installed so that she may join the appropriate sub network s Gina then checks to see if Kathy has any common application software packages with Gina . Since Kathy has the application software common to sub network Gina forwards to Kathy the participants in sub network . This is shown in list . Kathy updates her routing table to reflect that Aaron Beth David Elizabeth Gina and Harry are all reachable because of the common application software. Kathy also notes that to route messages to Aaron Beth David Elizabeth Gina or Harry Kathy sends the communication first to Gina . Gina updates her routing table to reflect Kathy s membership in sub network . Finally Gina forwards information about Kathy to all users of sub networks of which Gina is a member in this case just Harry . Harry then propagates along Kathy s admittance to sub network so that Kathy s presence is eventually known by all members of sub network .

Routing table entry is more interesting. Routing table entry specifies that to send a message to Elizabeth the message should first be sent to Beth. But an examination of sub network see shows that Aaron and Elizabeth are directly connected. Why shouldn t the direct connection be used in this case It may be that the cost of communicating to Elizabeth through Beth is cheaper than the cost of communicating directly with Elizabeth. Recall that mobile device may be any type of mobile device capable of interacting with the network. Elizabeth may have a very low bandwidth connection to Aaron directly but Beth may have a high bandwidth connection to both Aaron and Elizabeth. Or the cost of the communications channel between Aaron and Elizabeth may be much more expensive than the cumulative costs of the communications channels between Aaron and Beth and Beth and Elizabeth. Thus it may be cheaper in some sense of the word for Aaron to route communications to Elizabeth through Beth rather than communicating directly with Elizabeth. The specifics of how a cheapest path is determined between two users in a MANET or sub network is beyond the scope of this document but any technique for determining a least cost path may be used.

As should be apparent routing table is dynamic. That is as devices enter and leave the sub network routing table changes. For example if Kathy joins the sub network then routing table adds an entry reflecting the cheapest path to route a message to Kathy.

Routing table is also dynamic in that the cheapest path may change. For example as discussed above routing table entry specifies that messages for Elizabeth be sent to Beth. But consider what might happen if Beth is involved in more than one sub network and suddenly all of Beth s processing is devoted to traffic on the other sub network. Since Beth is unable to handle any traffic on the sub network using Beth as a route from Aaron to Elizabeth becomes more expensive than just routing directly from Aaron to Elizabeth. In this case routing table entry would be updated to reflect the change in cost for routing within the sub network. A person skilled in the art will recognize other ways the cost of routing can change.

Beth seeing a message destined for David checks her routing table. According to Beth s routing table messages destined for David are routed to Elizabeth . Once Beth has delivered the message as shown by line Beth forgets about the message unless she needs to relay a delivery failure message back to Aaron. Elizabeth now checks her routing table and sees that messages destined for David may be delivered directly to David . So Elizabeth sends the message to David as shown by line and the message is received by its intended recipient.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention communications may not cross sub networks. For example Elizabeth and Frank may not communicate even though they are within range of each other. This is because they are members of different sub networks Elizabeth is a member of sub network and Frank is a member of sub network . Even though the sub networks and overlap that is Aaron is a member of both sub networks Elizabeth and Frank may not see each other and therefore may not communicate with each other even through Aaron . A person skilled in the art will recognize how the embodiment of the invention may be modified to allow inter network communication. But allowing inter network communication essentially rebuilds the complete MANET and re introduces the exponential growth that comes with network size which is why inter network communication is not envisioned in the embodiment of the invention.

In as with routing table lists each possible recipient for a communication from mobile device the device to which the communication should be sent i.e. the first hop along the routing path from mobile device to the communication s destination and the properties of that device. For example routing table entry still specifies that to send a message to Elizabeth the message should be sent to Beth first since Beth and Elizabeth are members of only sub network . Entry specifies that to send a message to Isis a member of sub network the message may be sent directly to Isis since Aaron and Isis are directly connected.

Routing table entry shows a new variation. Aaron may communicate with Harry as a member of either sub network or sub network since Aaron and Harry are members of both sub networks. Accordingly routing information between Aaron and Harry accounts for membership in both sub networks. As shown in routing table entry Aaron may communicate directly with Harry over sub network . But messages from Aaron to Harry over sub network are sent to Isis first. Again determining the least cost path between nodes in a MANET is beyond the scope of this discussion but it might be that sub network is a gaming sub network and is therefore personal to Aaron whereas sub network is a work sub network and should not be used for personal business. Then factoring in costs for communicating between Aaron and Harry the direct link between Aaron and Harry might be more expensive than the indirect link through Isis.

Referring now to at block the device receives information about the application software packages used by reachable devices. At block the first device compares the list of reachable devices and their available application software packages with the application software installed within the device to make sure the first device has the common application software. At block the device sets up its internal routing table specifying which reachable devices include application software packages in common with the device and how best to communicate with those reachable devices. Finally at block the device forwards information about reachable devices and their application software packages to other nearby devices.

The purpose of block might not be obvious. If a device were new to the MANET why would it need to forward information it just learned from other devices in the MANET The reason is that the new device might make possible new less expensive communications channels. In addition it may happen that the device connects two otherwise separated groups of users. In essence the device might act as a bridge. By communicating information about reachable devices the device may make possible changes in the sub networks.

Having illustrated and described the principles of my invention in an embodiment thereof it should be readily apparent to those skilled in the art that the invention can be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from such principles. I claim all modifications coming within the spirit and scope of the accompanying claims.

