---

title: Visible light photoreduction of COusing heterostructured catalysts
abstract: The method provides for use of sensitized photocatalyst for the photocatalytic reduction of COunder visible light illumination. The photosensitized catalyst is comprised of a wide band gap semiconductor material, a transition metal co-catalyst, and a semiconductor sensitizer. The semiconductor sensitizer is photoexcited by visible light and forms a Type II band alignment with the wide band gap semiconductor material. The wide band gap semiconductor material and the semiconductor sensitizer may be a plurality of particles, and the particle diameters may be selected to accomplish desired band widths and optimize charge injection under visible light illumination by utilizing quantum size effects. In a particular embodiment, COis reduced under visible light illumination using a CdSe/Pt/TiO2 sensitized photocatalyst with HO as a hydrogen source.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08986511&OS=08986511&RS=08986511
owner: U.S. Department of Energy
number: 08986511
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101013
---
This patent application claims priority from provisional patent application 61 251 388 filed Oct. 14 2009 which is hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relate to a sensitized photocatalyst for the photocatalytic reduction of COunder visible light illumination. The photosensitized catalyst is comprised of a wide band gap semiconductor material a transition metal co catalyst and a semiconductor sensitizer. The semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material form a Type II band alignment and the semiconductor sensitizer has a band gap such that visible light illumination produces photoexcitation in the semiconductor sensitizer. The wide band gap semiconductor material and the semiconductor sensitizer may be a plurality of particles and the particle diameters may be selected to accomplish desired band widths and optimize charge injection under visible light illumination by utilizing quantum size effects.

Wide band gap semiconductor materials are used as photocatalysts for degrading dilute pollutants in air and water as well as for converting COand HO gases to valuable products such as hydrocarbons and Hthrough oxidation and reductions redox reactions. A particular interest is the photocatalytic reduction of COfor the production of hydrocarbons and other valuable products using inexpensive and abundant semiconductors such as TiOand ZnO. Such processes provide a potential means to reduce atmospheric CO as well as providing an attractive alternative to purely chemical means of converting COto hydrocarbons. However a fundamental difficulty in the widespread use of many semiconductors such as TiOand ZnO is the requirement for ultraviolet light to drive photoexcitation. Because ultraviolet light constitutes a relatively small fraction of the solar spectrum use of these materials for photocatalytic reduction of COhas generally required illumination by an artificial UV light source in order to generate sufficient redox capacity. This is a parasitic load to the system as a whole and negatively impacts the efficiency of the process. As a result shifting the optical response of these inexpensive and abundant semiconductor materials to provide for photoexcitation in the visible spectral range while preserving the ability to facilitate specific redox reactions is the subject of significant effort. In particular providing a methodology by which wide band gap semiconductor materials could be effectively utilized for the photocatalytic reduction of COas a response to visible light illumination would be of enormous benefit.

It is known that sensitization of semiconductors which respond primarily to UV light can provide a system whereby electrons excited by visible light in the sensitizer are injected into the semiconductor and these systems have been extensively studied in applications such as solar cells and photography technology. In these systems the band alignment of the sensitizer and the semiconductor is such that the energy level of the photoexcited electron within the sensitizer lies above the conduction band minimum of the semiconductor material. In operation injection of electrons into the conduction band of the semiconductor material occurs upon visible light photoexcitation of the sensitizer. The bulk of the wide band gap semiconductor is used primarily for charge transport and the arrangement further provides for charge separation in order to limit loss through recombination. Through this combination semiconductors which respond primarily to UV light may be electronically coupled with a sensitizer so that the response spectrum of the sensitizer semiconductor system is extended into the visible light spectrum and the properties of the semiconductor as an effective charge transporter can be utilized without artificial UV light sources.

Uses of these sensitizer semiconductor configurations as redox systems driven by visible light have primarily been investigated in the degradation of dilute pollutants in air and water. Typically the underlying mechanism is described as the sensitizer injecting electrons to the semiconductor material as a result of exposure to visible light. These photoinduced electrons can transfer to molecular oxygen O leading to the formation of active specials such as superoxide hydroxide radicals and singlet oxygen in the system. The repeated attack of these active species on the organic pollutant molecules results in their ultimate decomposition to carbon dioxide water and simple mineral acids. See e.g. Zhang et al Role of oxygen active species in the photocatalytic degradation of phenol using polymer sensitized TiO2 under visible light irradiation 163 2009 . These processes have been extensively investigated for the treatment of wastewaters and other pollutant laden materials however they rely on interaction between the injected electron and Ofor the purpose of converting pollutants to less harmful CO and do not address themselves toward the photocatalytic reduction of COunder the environmental conditions typically reported for utilization. It would be advantageous to provide a sensitized semiconductor for the photocatalytic reduction of COunder visible light illumination in order to provide a potential means to reduce atmospheric COas well as provide a mechanism for converting COto hydrocarbons through more efficient use of the solar spectrum.

The use of dye sensitized platinized TiOhas also been reported for the photocatalytic reduction of COunder illumination from a daylight lamp. See Ozcan et al. Dye Sensitized COreduction over pure and platinized TiOVol. 44 No. 4 2007 . Methane production is reported under illumination by the daylight lamp however daylight lamps provide illumination in both the UV and visible spectrum and it is unclear whether the COreduction for the production of methane reported results from UV or visible light irradiation. Additionally dyes are known to degrade under UV light and sensitizer semiconductor systems such as solar cells which incorporate dyes for use under a typical solar spectrum typically include UV barriers to prolong service life. It would be advantageous to provide a methodology whereby a sensitized wide band gap semiconductor could rely solely on visible light for the photocatalytic reduction of COwithout possible reliance on included UV wavelengths and direct photoactivation of the semiconductor material so that the sensitized semiconductor could definitively utilize the greater fraction of the solar spectrum represented by the visible light. It would be further advantageous if the sensitized semiconductor could tolerate the presence of UV light in the utilized spectrum without reliance on UV barriers for prolonged service life. Additionally dye molecules cannot undergo impact ionization and produce quantum yields greater than one as has been reported for quantum dot sensitized solar cells. See Fu et al Impact Ionization and Auger Recombination Rates in Semiconductor Quantum Dots 114 2010 among others. It would be advantageous to provide a sensitized semiconductor for the photocatalytic reduction of COunder visible light which could potentially take advantage of impact ionization and produce higher conversion efficiencies than are possible with a dye sensitized approach.

Semiconductor materials such as TiOhave also been doped with transition metal ions and nonmetallic elements such as carbon nitrogen and sulfur in order to produce photocatalytic effects in the solar spectrum. Experimental and theoretical results indicate that these dopants generate localized energy levels in the TiOjust above the valence band from which visible light excitation becomes feasible. See Konstantinova et al. Carbon Doped Titanium Dioxide Visible Light Photocatalysis and EPR Investigation Vol. 61 No. 12 2007 . Photocatalytic conversion of COand HO to hydrocarbons has been reported using nitrogen doped TiOexposed to outdoor sunlight. See Varghese et al. High Rate Solar Photocatalytic Conversion of CO2 and Water Vapor to Hydrocarbon Fuels . Vol. 9 No. 2 2009 . In these materials the dopants are located in the lattice of the semiconductor material interstitially and or substitutionally in order to produce a doped semiconductor material which directly responds to visible light illumination. It would be advantageous to eliminate the interstitial and or substitutional doping requirement and provide a sensitized semiconductor for the photocatalytic reduction of COunder visible light in order to simplify synthesis and take advantage of characteristics such as impact ionization which may arise.

Doped semiconductor materials have also been utilized to produce composite semiconductor materials providing for oxidation and reduction reactions under visible light. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 7 169 733 issued to Wang et al issued Jan. 30 2007. Wang produces a composite material from two doped materials both of which photoactivate under visible light activation. In this manner the composite material is able to provide both a hole with high oxidation potential and an electron with high reducing potential. However the composite material relies on doping as discussed above to provide visible light excitation of both materials involved and does not rely on a sensitizer for the injection of electrons into a wide band gap semiconductor material.

It would be advantageous to provide a method whereby the photoreduction of CO2 under visible light illumination could be accomplished using an abundant and inexpensive wide band gap semiconductor material such as TiOor ZnO. It would further be advantageous if visible light response was provided via electron injection from a sensitizing material responsive to visible light in order to avoid doping requirements or other mechanisms designed to drive the wide band gap semiconductor itself into visible light photoresponse. It would be further advantageous to provide for the photoreduction of COin a manner that avoid sensitization using dyes so that sensitizer degradation from the UV fraction of the solar spectrum can be avoided and so that impact ionization and higher conversion efficiencies can potentially be realized.

Accordingly it is an object of this disclosure to provide a method of photocatalytically reducing COunder visible light excitation in the presence of hydrogen from a hydrogen source utilizing a sensitized photocatalyst comprised of a wide band gap semiconductor a transition metal co catalyst and a semiconductor sensitizer.

It is a further object of this disclosure to photocatalytically reduce COunder visible light excitation in the presence of hydrogen from a hydrogen source in order to produce product molecules such as hydrocarbons H and others.

It is a further object of this disclosure to control the composition of the product molecules based on the transition metal co catalyst.

It is a further object of this disclosure to provide a method of photocatalytically reducing COutilizing a sensitized photocatalyst comprised of particles of the wide band gap semiconductor the transition metal co catalyst and the semiconductor sensitizer in order to optimize charge injection and band alignments under visible light illumination.

It is a further object of this disclosure to provide a method of photocatalytically reducing COunder visible light illumination utilizing a sensitized photocatalyst in a COand HO environment.

These and other objects aspects and advantages of the present disclosure will become better understood with reference to the accompanying description and claims.

One or more embodiments of the present invention relates to a method for photocatalytically reducing COin the presence of hydrogen using a sensitized photocatalyst. The sensitized photocatalyst is comprised of a wide band gap semiconductor material in contact with a semiconductor sensitizer and a transition metal co catalyst loaded on the wide band gap semiconductor material. The semiconductor sensitizer has a band gap such that visible light is absorbed and photoexcitation in the semiconductor sensitizer results driving electrons in the semiconductor from the valence band to the conduction band. The conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer has a more negative potential than the redox potential of CO and the semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material form a Type II band alignment where the conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer has a more negative potential than the conduction band of the wide band gap semiconductor material. In certain embodiments the semiconductor sensitizer may be InP GaAs PbS PbSe ZnTe CdS CdSe or CdTe the wide band gap semiconductor material may be TiOor ZnO and the co catalyst may be any transition metal.

The band gap of the semiconductor sensitizer and or the wide band gap semiconductor material may be altered to form more advantageous Type II band alignments and photoexcitation under visible light using the quantum size effect. In a particular embodiment the semiconductor sensitizer has diameter less than 50 nm and the wide band gap semiconductor material has a diameter less than 100 nm. In certain embodiments the semiconductor sensitizer the wide band gap semiconductor material and the transition metal co catalyst may be a plurality of particles where individual particles in each plurality combine to produce the sensitized photocatalyst.

The method may be utilized to produce product molecules following the photocatalytic reduction of COwith visible light illumination. In a particular embodiment the product molecules are comprised of hydrocarbons such as CH CHOH and others. The method may be utilized for production of additional product molecules such as CO and H. The composition of the product molecules is impacted by the specific transition metal co catalyst utilized. The hydrogen source utilized in the method may be any source providing H atomic hydrogen. For example the hydrogen source utilized in the method may be HO or H. The method may further utilize a hole scavenger.

Specific results are provided for a sensitized photocatalyst comprised of CdSe and TiOnanoparticles using HO as the hydrogen source.

The disclosure herein provides a method for photocatalytically reducing COin the presence of hydrogen using a sensitized photocatalyst. The sensitized photocatalyst is comprised of a wide band gap semiconductor material in contact with a semiconductor sensitizer and a transition metal co catalyst loaded on the wide band gap semiconductor material. In order to affect photocatalytic reduction of COusing visible light the semiconductor sensitizer has a band gap such that visible light is absorbed and photoexcitation in the semiconductor sensitizer results driving electrons in the semiconductor from the valence band to the conduction band. The conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer has a more negative potential than the redox potential of CO and semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material form a Type II band alignment where the conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer has a more negative potential than the conduction band of the wide band gap semiconductor material.

Within this disclosure visible light illumination means illumination by light comprised at least partially of visible light with the balance of the illumination if any consisting of light having wavelengths outside the visible light range for example UV light. For example exposure to sunlight comprised of visible and UV light constitutes visible light illumination within this disclosure.

Within this disclosure reduction means the gain of electrons or a decrease in oxidation state by a molecule atom or ion. Similarly oxidation means the loss of electrons or an increase in oxidation state by a molecule atom or ion.

Within this disclosure semiconductor means a metallic material comprised of one or more metals where the metallic material has an electrical conductivity between a conductor and an insulator generally between about 10to about 10ohmcm. The term binary semiconductor means a semiconductor consisting of two elements.

Within this disclosure wide band gap semiconductor means a semiconductor material having a conduction band energy more negative than the reduction potential of at least one COreduction reaction for example the reduction reactions of COto HOOC CHOH CH or CO among others. Wide band gap semiconductors include but are not limited to TiOand ZnO.

Within this disclosure semiconductor sensitizer means a binary semiconductor which is photoexcited by visible light. Semiconductor sensitizers include but are not limited to InP GaAs PbS PbSe ZnTe CdS CdSe and CdTe.

Within this disclosure Type II band alignment means a band alignment between a first semiconductor and a second semiconductor where the conduction band of the first semiconductor has a more negative potential than the conduction band of the second semiconductor and where the valence band of the first semiconductor has a more negative potential than the valence band of the second semiconductor.

The method provides for utilizing a sensitized photocatalyst for photocatalytically reducing COunder visible light illumination. The sensitized photocatalyst utilizes the Type II band alignment and the transition metal co catalyst to enhance the photoreduction activity. In operation the sensitized photocatalyst is placed in contact with COand hydrogen from a hydrogen source and exposed to visible light illumination. The sensitized photocatalyst catalyzes the photoreduction of COin the presence of the hydrogen to produce products such as CH CHOH H CO and other hydrocarbons. The activity of the system is manipulated so that no ultraviolet light is needed for the photoreduction although ultraviolet light may be present within the illumination utilized. The hydrogen source may be HO H or other appropriate sources which produce atomic hydrogen known in the art. The results represent a significant new finding for the photocatalytic reuse of CO namely that the lower energy tails of the solar spectrum can be utilized for this application. As such the results demonstrate a first step towards making more efficient photocatalysts for COcapture and reuse.

The band alignment is illustrated at . At a semiconductor sensitizer has conduction band CB valence band VB and a band gap BGbetween CBand VB. A wide band gap semiconductor has conduction band CB valence band VB and a band gap BGbetween CBand VB. The direction of increasing electron energy represented by the bands is as indicated at where more negative potentials indicate increasing electron energy in a respective band. The band gap BGof the semiconductor sensitizer is such that visible light may be absorbed and photoexcitation occurs resulting in photoexcited electrons shifting from the valence band VBto the conduction band CB. Conduction band CBhas a more negative potential than conduction band CB. Additionally the conduction band CBrepresents a more negative potential than the redox potential of at least one COreduction reaction such as the reduction reactions of COto HOOC CHOH CH or CO as illustrated with reference to the increasing electron energy at . The heterojunction between the semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material thus forms a type II band alignment where the conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer has a more negative potential than the conduction band of the wide band gap semiconductor material.

In an embodiment the semiconductor sensitizer may be InP GaAs PbS PbSe ZnTe CdS CdSe or CdTe. The semiconductor sensitizer is preferably a binary semiconductor having a direct band gap. The wide band gap semiconductor material is preferably a semiconductor material having a band gap between the valence band and the conduction band larger than 1 eV more preferably larger than 2 eV. In a particular embodiment the wide band gap semiconductor material may be TiOor ZnO. Further the wide band gap semiconductor material may be comprised of more than a single homogenous material provided contact between the semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material form a type II band alignment and provided that the conduction band of the wide band gap semiconductor represents a more negative potential than the redox potential of at least one COreduction reaction.

The sensitized photocatalyst is further comprised of a transition metal co catalyst loaded on the wide band gap semiconductor material. Within this disclosure when the co catalyst is loaded on the wide band gap semiconductor material this indicates that the wide band gap semiconductor material acts as a support for the co catalyst. When the co catalyst is loaded on the wide band gap semiconductor material the co catalyst does not substitute into the lattice of the wide band gap semiconductor material except to the extent that a preparation method may result in incidental substitutions. The transition metal co catalyst may be any transition metal as defined by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry IUPAC . In a particular embodiment the semiconductor sensitizer is CdSe the wide band gap semiconductor material is TiO and the transition metal co catalyst is Pt.

It is known that COmay be reduced to CO and Oon Pt TiO2 samples irradiated by UV light. Without being bound by theory it is possible that upon irradiation of the semiconductor sensitizer by visible light injected electrons act to reduce COin the presence of the co catalyst loaded wide band gap semiconductor via the reaction CO 2e CO O. The CO thus formed would react with atomic hydrogen to form hydrocarbons through the reaction CO 6e 6H CH HO. However these mechanics are not well understood and the possible reactions involved in the photocatalytic reduction of COon the sensitized photocatalyst utilized within this disclosure are not intended to be limiting. Within this method it is only necessary that the sensitized photocatalyst described within this disclosure be exposed to COand atomic hydrogen from a hydrogen source under visible light illumination.

The band gap of the semiconductor sensitizer and or the wide band gap semiconductor material may be altered to form more advantageous Type II band alignments and photoexcitation under visible light using the quantum size effect as is known in the art. See e.g. A. Henglein Q particles Size quantization effects in colloidal semiconductors 73 1 4 1987 among others. In a particular embodiment the semiconductor sensitizer the wide band gap semiconductor material and the transition metal co catalyst are a plurality of particles where individual particles in each plurality combine to produce the sensitized photocatalyst. In this embodiment the sensitized photocatalyst is formed when semiconductor sensitizer particles contact the co catalyst loaded wide band gap semiconductor particles. This approach provides for advantages in synthesis as well as allowing for sensitized photocatalyst tuning through the quantum size effects previously referenced.

Additionally when the semiconductor sensitizer the wide band gap semiconductor material and the transition metal co catalyst are a plurality of particles the diameter of the semiconductor sensitizer particles and the wide band gap semiconductor particles may be selected in order to produce an optimum charge injection from the semiconductor sensitizer particles to the wide band gap semiconductor particles on exposure to visible light illumination. Similarly the diameter of the semiconductor sensitizer particles may be selected so that quantum confinement shifts the conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer to higher energies to facilitate charge injection into the wide band gap semiconductor material as is known in the art. See e.g. Fang et al Sensitization of nanocrystalline TiO2 electrode with quantum sized CdSe and ZnTCPc molecules 270 1997 among others. In an embodiment a semiconductor sensitizer particle diameter is less than 10 nm and a wide band gap semiconductor particle diameter is less than 50 nm. In another embodiment the semiconductor sensitizer is comprised of CdSe particles approximately 2.5 6 nm in diameter and the wide band gap semiconductor is comprised of TiOparticles approximately 25 nm in diameter. Preferably the sensitizing particles are substantially uniformly distributed and in close direct contact with the semiconductor particles. It is known that outer sphere electron transfer rates are strongly distance dependent and contact among small particles as described can facilitate the process. Sensitizing particle uniformity may be evaluated using scanning electron microscopy SEM images and EDS analysis as is known in the art.

Within the method disclosed the sensitized photocatalyst comprised of the semiconductor sensitizer the wide band gap semiconductor material and the transition metal co catalyst is exposed to visible light illumination and atomic hydrogen H from a hydrogen source and some portion of the COis photocatalytically reduced. Within this method visible light indicates light having a wavelength greater than 420 nm. However when the method specifies exposure to visible light illumination this is not intended to indicate that all illuminating light has a wavelength greater than 420 nm. The illuminating light may be comprised of visible light as defined herein as well as light having wavelengths outside the specified visible light range such as UV light. Within this disclosure it is only necessary that the visible light illumination be comprised at least partially of light having a wavelength greater than 420 nm. For example exposure to sunlight comprised of visible and UV light constitutes visible light illumination within this disclosure.

In an embodiment of the method close contact between the semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material is enhanced through removal of ligands on the semiconductor sensitizer. As is known in the art strong electronic coupling and efficient electron injection requires a favorable link between the semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material. However nanodimensioned sensitizer particles do not always adhere strongly to particles of wide band gap semiconductors and linker molecules may be utilized to provide linkage through present functional groups. The presence of these linker molecules can adversely impact the photocatalyst properties. See e.g. Liu et al. Preparation and Photoelectrochemical Properties of CdSe TiO2 Hybrid Mesoporous Structures 1 2010 . In a particular embodiment utilizing CdSe particles approximately 2.5 and 6 nm in diameter the CdSe particles were treated with a hydrazine chemical treatment to remove surface ligands and improve the electronic coupling with TiO. Additionally removal of surface ligands may be accomplished through thermal annealing or other suitable methods known in the art.

The method may be utilized to produce product molecules following the photocatalytic reduction of COwith visible light illumination. In a particular embodiment the product molecules are comprised of hydrocarbons such as CH CHOH and others. The method may be utilized for production of additional product molecules such as CO and H. The composition of the product molecules is impacted by the specific transition metal co catalyst utilized. As a result production of specific product molecules may be enhanced through advantageous selection of the transition metal co catalyst. For example in an embodiment utilizing a sensitized photocatalyst comprised of CdSe particles and TiOparticles use of Pt as the co catalyst results in product molecules comprised largely of CH where use of Fe as the co catalyst results in product molecules comprised largely of H.

The hydrogen source utilized in the method may be any source providing H atomic hydrogen. For example the hydrogen source utilized in the method may be HO or Hunder conditions where H atomic hydrogen is produced. The method may further utilize a hole scavenger. In a particular embodiment utilizing a CdSe Pt TiO2 sensitized photocatalyst with HO as a hydrogen source NaS present in the HO is utilized as a hole scavenger.

The method disclosed provides for utilizing the sensitized photocatalyst for the photocatalytically reduction of COunder visible light illumination. The Type II band alignment and the transition metal co catalyst facilitate the photoreduction activity. The sensitized photocatalyst may be comprised of a plurality of semiconductor sensitizer particles co catalyst particles and wide band gap semiconductor material particles and the diameter of the particles may be selected in order to manipulate quantum confinement effects and provide for efficient COreduction. When the sensitized photocatalyst is placed in contact with COand atomic hydrogen from a hydrogen source and exposed to visible light illumination the sensitized photocatalyst catalyzes the photoreduction of COin the presence of the hydrogen to produce products such as CH CHOH H CO and other hydrocarbons. The activity of the system is manipulated so that no ultraviolet light is needed for the photoreduction although ultraviolet light may be present within the illumination utilized. The hydrogen source may be HO H or other appropriate sources which produce atomic hydrogen as known in the art. The results represent a significant new finding for the photocatalytic reuse of CO namely that the lower energy tails of the solar spectrum can be utilized for this application. As such the results demonstrate a first step towards making more efficient photocatalysts for COcapture and reuse

In an exemplary embodiment a sensitized photocatalyst is comprised of a CdSe nanodimensioned semiconductor sensitizer and a TiOwide band gap semiconductor material. In order to enhance the photoreduction activity various transition metal co catalysts such as Pt were incorporated onto the TiO. The hydrogen source utilized was HO.

A CdSe Pt TiOsensitized photocatalyst was synthesized using commercial P25 TiOnanoparticles and CdSe QDs. The Pt was incorporated by wet impregnation methods onto the TiO. See Jang et al 2008 112 172000 17205. Two sizes of CdSe QDs 2.5 nm and 6 nm diameter were then mixed with the Pt TiO. One set of samples were thermally annealed in an inert atmosphere to desorb the organic capping molecules on the CdSe QDs and are referred to as t CdSe Pt TiO. See Lee et al 2007 91 113104. Likewise the caps were also removed using a chemical hydrazine treatment of the CdSe QDs prior to mixing with TiOand are referred to as c CdSe Pt TiO. See Law et al 2008 130 5974 5985. Approximately 300 mg of the QD sensitized photocatalyst was deposited on a glass slide and placed inside a custom built photocatalysis cell. In order to follow the photoconversion of COby infrared IR spectroscopy the reaction cell was first evacuated to a base pressure of 10torr and then dosed with 3 torr HO vapor and 0.3 torr CO. The IR spectra of the gas in the photocatalysis cell were recorded as a function of light illumination time. A second series of experiments were conducted which used gas chromatography GC to detect reaction products. For these experiments the cell was purged for 15 minutes with COwhich had been bubbled through HO. A 300 W Xe arc lamp was used as the light source and long pass filters were used to remove UV light leaving only 420 nm. A water filter and control experiments rule out the possibility of heat from the lamp bulb causing the photocatalytic process. The light intensity was 100 mW cmat the sample. The BET surface area of the TiObased catalysts remains essentially constant 50 m g in all of the samples indicating that the Pt co catalysts CdSe nanodimensioned semiconductor sensitizers thermal annealing steps and hydrazine treatments do not lead to structural changes of the TiOwide band gap semiconductor material.

While the conduction band of bulk CdSe is only slightly above that of TiO quantum confinement shifts the conduction band of CdSe QDs to higher energies which facilitates charge injection into TiO. See . Redox potentials indicate it is also energetically favorable for the injected electrons to initiate the reduction of COwith HO as illustrated at illustrates band energies and associated redox potentials for reactions of concern.

For efficient carrier separation across the CdSe and TiOheterojunction the CdSe QDs should be substantially uniformly distributed and in close direct contact with the TiOnanoparticles. QD uniformity may be evaluated using scanning electron microscopy SEM images and EDS analysis. In an exemplary t CdSe Pt TiOsample X ray photoelectron spectroscopy XPS indicated that the atomic concentrations of Pt and Cd in the sample are 0.5 and 1 respectively. Pt also shows multiple oxidation states with Ptaccounting for 76 of the total Pt and 11 and 13 for Pt and Pt respectively.

As previously discussed good contact between the CdSe and TiOfacilitates charge transfer. Since thermal annealing can sinter QD particles removal of QD caps with a chemical treatment is also disclosed. This can be accomplished by treating the CdSe QDs with 1 M hydrazine prior to mixing with the Pt TiO. The hydrazine treatment is intended to remove capping molecules allow for direct contact between the QDs and TiO and maintain the size distribution and quality of the QDs.

The removal of the organic capping molecules on the QDs was confirmed with IR spectroscopy illustrated at . The size and optical properties of the CdSe QDs were preserved after the hydrazine treatment as evidenced by UV Vis absorption spectra of the QDs as illustrated at . Diffuse reflectance spectra of the c CdSe Pt TiOsamples exhibit clear and distinct absorption features of CdSe QDs in the visible region as illustrated at . SEM and EDS data for the c CdSe Pt TiOsample suggest that CdSe QDs form aggregates on the surface of TiOdue to the loss of the capping molecules which limits the interfacial contact between the QDs and TiO.

The photoreduction of COusing the t CdSe Pt TiOsample was studied with IR spectroscopy. The photocatalysts were first allowed to equilibrate in the CO HO atmosphere for several hours to ensure that the adsorption of gas molecules was complete. shows the COpeak area as a function of photolysis time under 420 nm irradiation. After 4 hours of reaction the COpeak intensity is reduced by 10 . The reduction of the gas phase COabsorption intensity indicates that the molecule is being consumed in a photoreaction.

To confirm that the changes in the COintensity result from a visible light mediated photocatalytic reaction a series of control experiments were carried out. When the t CdSe Pt TiOsample in the cell was kept in the dark no changes were observed in the COabsorption intensity. For Pt TiOsamples no CdSe QDs present annealed identically to the t CdSe Pt TiOsamples no COintensity changes are seen during irradiation with 420 nm light. As a final control experiment just the CdSe QDs annealed identically to the t CdSe Pt TiOsamples were exposed to the full spectral output of the lamp as well as to visible light only 420 nm and no evidence of COconsumption was observed. These experiments indicate that both CdSe and Pt TiOmust be present to achieve photocatalytic activity during visible light 420 nm light excitation. The absence of activity when only Pt TiOor CdSe QDs are irradiated also indicates that thermally mediated processes on the surfaces of these materials are not responsible for COconsumption. As a final note the photocatalyst slowly deactivates over time and becomes inactive after 4 to 6 hours of illumination. See . The degradation may be due to the oxidation of CdSe QDs an effect observed in similar systems. A variety of hole scavengers and caps may be suitable to improve the lifetime of the CdSe sensitized TiOphotocatalysts.

To identify the products of the reaction and quantify reaction yields gas chromatography GC experiments were conducted. For these experiments the c CdSe Pt TiOsamples were used to exploit the quantum confinement effect in the CdSe QDs sizes are preserved . A mixture of 2.5 nm and 6 nm CdSe QDs were used to make the c CdSe Pt TiOsamples.

After illuminating the c CdSe Pt TiOsamples with visible light 420 nm methane 48 ppm gh methanol 3.3 ppm gh H trace and CO trace were observed using the GC for detection. Only vapor phase methanol will be detected with GC sampling and liquid product will remain undetected. These conversion rates were consistent with the 10 intensity reduction seen in the IR experiments given the different COpartial pressures 0.3 torr in the IR experiments and 760 torr in the GC studies. The composition of the products also depended on the metal co catalyst. When Fe was used in place of Pt primarily Hproduction 55 ppm gh resulted.

A series of control experiments were conducted to verify the origin of the photoactivity in the c CdSe Pt TiOsamples. In order to eliminate the role of residual hydrazine in the reactions a CO HO filled photocatalysis cell with c CdSe Pt TiOcatalyst was kept in the dark overnight and no reaction was detected. When CdSe QDs treated identically with hydrazine were used without Pt TiO no activity was observed during irradiation with the full lamp spectrum white light or with visible light only 420 nm . Finally if only Pt TiOwas irradiated with 420 nm no photoconversion products were detected. The results of these control experiments clearly demonstrate that the visible light activity of the CdSe Pt TiOsensitized photocatalyst occurs without the direct excitation of the TiOband gap.

The use of a hole scavenger improved the CHproduction of the CdSe TiO Pt sensitized photocatalyst. A CdSe TiO Pt sample irradiated with visible light having a wavelength greater than 420 nm and using HO as the hydrogen source produced 32 ppm h g CH. Under the same conditions except with 3 nM NaS present in the HO as a hole scavenger 39 ppm h g CHwas produced.

Thus the disclosure herein describes a sensitized photocatalyst capable of catalyzing the photoreduction of COusing visible light illumination 420 nm only. The photocatalytic reduction of COmay use readily available sunlight to convert COinto valuable chemicals such as methanol or methane in a carbon friendly manner. The sensitized photocatalyst is comprised of a wide band gap semiconductor material in contact with a semiconductor sensitizer and a transition metal co catalyst loaded on the wide band gap semiconductor material. In order to affect photocatalytic reduction of COusing visible light the semiconductor sensitizer has a band gap such that visible light is absorbed and photoexcitation in the semiconductor sensitizer results driving electrons in the semiconductor from the valence band to the conduction band. The conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer has a more negative potential than the redox potential of CO and semiconductor sensitizer and the wide band gap semiconductor material form a Type II band alignment where the conduction band of the semiconductor sensitizer has a more negative potential than the conduction band of the wide band gap semiconductor material. The sensitized photocatalyst catalyzes the photoreduction of COin the presence of hydrogen to produce products such as CH CHOH H CO and other hydrocarbons.

Accordingly the method provides a method of photocatalytically reducing COunder visible light excitation in the presence of hydrogen from a hydrogen source utilizing a sensitized photocatalyst comprised of a wide band gap semiconductor a transition metal co catalyst and a semiconductor sensitizer.

Further the method provides for photocatalytically reducing COunder visible light excitation in the presence of hydrogen from a hydrogen source in order to produce product molecules such as hydrocarbons H and others.

Further the method provides for controlling the composition of the product molecules based on the transition metal co catalyst.

Further the method provides a method of photocatalytically reducing COutilizing a sensitized photocatalyst comprised of particles of the wide band gap semiconductor the transition metal co catalyst and the semiconductor sensitizer in order to optimize charge injection and band alignments under visible light illumination.

Further the method provides for photocatalytically reducing COunder visible light illumination utilizing a sensitized photocatalyst in a COand HO environment.

It is to be understood that the above described arrangements are only illustrative of the application of the principles of the present invention and it is not intended to be exhaustive or limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Numerous modifications and alternative arrangements may be devised by those skilled in the art in light of the above teachings without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the claims appended hereto.

In addition the previously described versions of the present invention have many advantages including but not limited to those described above. However the invention does not require that all advantages and aspects be incorporated into every embodiment of the present invention.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

