---

title: Modifying avatar attributes
abstract: Techniques are disclosed herein for changing a user's avatar attributes based on information that is pertinent to the user and that comes from a variety of sources. The user's electronic device may contain a multitude of information about the user, their lifestyle, their current mood, etc. Embodiments provide an application programming interface (API) that allows various applications on the user's electronic device, or elsewhere, to communicate with an avatar platform such that avatar attributes may be changed based on information from a wide variety of applications.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09086776&OS=09086776&RS=09086776
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09086776
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100329
---
An avatar is a computer user s representation of herself or alter ego. Avatars may be three dimensional 3D or two dimensional 2D . For example a user may have a 3D avatar in a computer game. As another example a user may have a 2D avatar in the form of an icon that might be used in an instant messaging application or other environment.

Some avatars have a set of customizable attributes. For example a video game might allow the user to customize the avatar s clothes hair eye color weight etc. As a specific example the user might purchase a set of digital clothes to customize the avatar s appearance in the video game. As another example a user could select attributes for their avatar in an instant messaging program.

The user s avatar is not necessarily static. Some avatars are animated meaning that the avatar changes its appearance over time. For example an avatar might consist of a number of images which are played in the same sequence over and over. As a simple example a smiley face icon might repeatedly sequence between a frown and a smile. As a more complex example an avatar that resembles a person might jump up and down.

In some cases the avatar changes in a way that is not simply a repetition of a sequence of images. For example some programs alter an avatar based an actions within the program. Using a video game as an example the user s avatar might be depicted as being wounded if the user has suffered some loss in the video game. As another example an instant messaging program may provide an animated 3D avatar that talks as messages are typed or read.

However despite the use of avatar s in computer programs video games and the like there remain limitations on the input that can be used to change the attributes of avatars.

Techniques are disclosed herein for changing a user s avatar attributes based on information that is pertinent to the user. The information may come from a variety of sources. For example the user s electronic device may contain a multitude of information about the user their lifestyle their current mood etc. Embodiments provide an application programming interface API that allows various applications on the user s electronic device or elsewhere to communicate with an avatar platform such that avatar attributes may be changed based on information from a wide variety of applications.

One embodiment is a machine implemented method of presenting a user s avatar. The method comprising exposing an interface at a first application on an electronic device. The interface allows other applications to request that a user s avatar be presented with specified attributes. The interface allows a plurality of different attributes to be selected. The first application receives an identifier of a first attribute of the plurality of attributes from a second application. The user s avatar is presented on an electronic device based on the first attribute.

One embodiment is a machine implemented method of presenting a user s avatar. The method comprising determining by a first application that a user s avatar should be updated through an interface to a second application. The interface allows a request that an avatar be presented with specified attributes. The interface allows a plurality of attributes to be selected. The first application determines a first attribute of the plurality of attributes for the user s avatar based on information that pertains to the user. The first application transmits an identifier of the first attribute to the second application. The user s avatar is presented on an electronic device based on the first attribute.

One embodiment is an apparatus comprising a presentation device a processor coupled to the presentation apparatus and a computer readable storage media coupled to the processor. The computer readable storage media having computer readable instructions stored thereon which when executed on the processor cause the processor to implement a platform for presenting avatars on the presentation device. The platform exposes an application programming interface that allows software applications to select from among a plurality of attributes to apply to an avatar. The platform receives a request from a software application on the electronic device to present a user s avatar with a first attribute of the plurality of attributes. The platform modifies the user s avatar based on the first attribute.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Techniques are disclosed herein for changing a user s avatar attributes based on information that is pertinent to the user. The information m ay pertain to real life events. For example the user s electronic device may contain a multitude of information about the user their lifestyle their current mood etc. Embodiments provide an application programming interface API that allows various applications on the user s electronic device or elsewhere to communicate with an avatar platform such that avatar attributes may be changed based on information from a wide variety of applications.

For example a music application on an electronic device may use the API to instruct the avatar platform to cause the user s avatar to tap its feet when the user is listening to music. As another example if a weather application determines that the forecast calls for rain at the user s location then the weather application may use the API to instruct the avatar platform to cause the avatar to carry an umbrella. Note that the user s avatar might be presented in a wide range of applications. For example the avatar could be presented in an instant messaging environment a social networking website etc.

The presentation device is capable of displaying images and may also be capable of playing audio signals. As non limiting examples the presentation device might be an LCD display an LED display a plasma display etc. The presentation device may also include an audio speaker. The user input device allows a user to input data commands etc. As non limiting examples the user input device may include a touch screen a keypad or keyboard a microphone etc. In one embodiment the display screen is capable of user input. In one embodiment the user input device responds to a human voice.

The avatar platform includes an avatar presentation module and avatar APIs . The avatar presentation module is able to present avatars on the presentation device on the electronic device . Note that the avatar presentation module may cooperate with other software on the electronic device that assists in the rendering of the avatar on the presentation device . For example the avatar platform may be part of an operating system which may have software that assists in the rendering of the avatars. However the avatar platform may reside outside of the operating system.

The avatar presentation module is also able to send avatar presentation information to other applications on the electronic device to cause those applications to present the user s avatar on the presentation device on the electronic device . For example the avatar presentation module may communicate with an instant messaging application on the electronic device to control how the avatar is presented within an instant messaging environment. The avatar presentation information may be any information e.g. data and or executable instructions that allows an avatar to be presented such as one or more images software code e.g. JAVA XML etc. . Moreover the avatar presentation module is able to send avatar presentation information to applications on a server to cause the server to present the avatar. As an example the presentation module might communicate with an application on server to control how the avatar is presented within a social networking website. Likewise the applications on the electronic device may send avatar presentation information to the server .

The APIs allows applications on the electronic device to impact how avatars are presented. In one embodiment an application sends one or more avatar attributes to the avatar platform to control those attributes of the avatar. As an example a weather application sends the attribute umbrella. In response the avatar presentation module causes the user s avatar to carry an umbrella. Note that the applications do not need to specify all of the avatar attributes. For example the user might specify what attributes the avatar is to have absent any specific requests through the API to modify the user s avatar.

Note that applications that are not on the electronic device may also impact how the avatars are presented. For example the applications on the remote device may have an impact on how avatars are presented at the electronic device . In one embodiment a remote application sends an avatar attribute to the avatar platform . Likewise the applications on the electronic device may send avatar attributes to an avatar platform on the remote electronic device or the server to impact how avatars are presented. Furthermore an application on the server can send avatar attributes to the avatar platform on the electronic device to impact how avatars are presented.

The applications on the electronic device and the server could include essentially any software application. Examples include but are not limited to an email application an instant messaging application a calendar application a contacts application a music player a stock application a traffic application a weather application. Note that the applications are not necessarily stand alone applications. For example the calendar application might be a component within the email application.

In step the avatar platform e.g. first application on the electronic device exposes the APIs . The APIs allow the other applications on the electronic device as well as other applications on a remote electronic device or server to request that an avatar be presented with specified attributes. The APIs allow different attributes for the avatar to be selected. For example the attribute umbrella can be specified for the avatar.

In step a second application determines what information that pertains to a user that it use to affect the user s avatar. The second application also determines what attributes are pertinent for the information. In one embodiment the second application presents the user with an interface to select what information might be pertinent to determining an update to the user s avatar. The interface may also allow the user to select what avatar attribute is to change and how. For example a weather application may allow the user to choose to have their avatar carry an umbrella if the weather forecast calls for rain. As another example the user may choose to have their avatar wear sunglasses if the weather forecast calls for sunny skies. In this example the weather forecast is the information that pertains to the user. The avatar attributes may be umbrella or sunglasses. Further details of an application determining useful information how to relate that information to attributes are discussed in connection with .

Note that the second application could determine without user input what information might be used to affect the user s avatar as well as what attributes relate to the information. For example the weather application might determine without user input that the information regarding the weather at the user s location might be related to the user s mood. The weather application might also determine without user input that the avatar should have an attribute of sad if the weather is rainy.

In step the second application determines that a user s avatar should be updated based information that pertains to the user. For example a weather application might check the weather every morning at 7 AM and if certain conditions are met then the user s avatar should be updated. Those conditions could be that the user has specified that if it is raining in the morning then the avatar should be changed to reflect this. Note that any conditions could be used to trigger the avatar update. Using the weather example the weather program determine that the user s avatar should be updated whenever a major downpour is in the user s area.

In step the second application determines an avatar attribute to be affected by the information. As mentioned the API could specify many different avatar attributes. As an example the weather application determines that the avatar should have the attribute umbrella or sunglasses based on the weather report. Therefore the selection of the attribute may be conditioned upon the information.

In step the second application sends an identifier of the attribute to the avatar platform via the API . In one embodiment the second application sends the identifier of the attribute to the avatar platform on the electronic device . For example an email application on a user s electronic device sends the attribute identifier such that the avatar can be affected on the presentation device of the electronic device . In one embodiment a local application sends the identifier of the attribute to an avatar platform on a remote electronic device . For example an application on a user s electronic device sends the identifier of the attribute such that the avatar of a friend can be affected at the friend s electronic device .

In step the avatar platform causes the avatar to be presented based on the received attribute or attributes. Note that this may affect how the user s avatar is presented in a number of different applications and or electronic devices. For example avatar platform might send computer executable instructions and or data to an email application on the user s electronic device that instruct the email application how to present the avatar. As another example the avatar platform might send computer executable instructions and or data to a server that instructs the server how to present the avatar on a social networking website.

The APIs in the avatar platform are divided into five example categories including surroundings social relations behavior mood and appearance . Each avatar category has a number of attributes. For example the surroundings category has attributes of coffee shop airport beach etc. The social relations category has attributes of friends family co workers etc.

The avatar platform is able to present the avatar in a suitable manner given the selection of the attributes. For example if the coffee shop attributes is specified in the API then the avatar platform presents the user s avatar in a coffee shop. Note that only a single attribute needs to be selected in the API . The avatar platform may rely on default values for the rest of the avatar s attributes. For example the user may establish the way they want their avatar to appear absent any special instructions from applications through the API.

The local applications are applications that are on the same electronic device as the avatar platform . The remote applications are on another device such as a server . The following examples will be used to help illustrate principles of an embodiment.

The weather application determines that it is going to rain today so it sends the attribute umbrella to the avatar platform . Specifically the weather application sends an identifier e.g. numeric value that is associated with umbrella. The avatar platform may be capable of presenting many different types of umbrellas. In one embodiment the API allows umbrellas to be specified generically or specifically in a multi byte code. For example the first byte may specify the attribute umbrella and the second byte may specify the type of umbrella. If the application sets the second byte to a default value then no specific type of umbrella is specified. In this case the avatar platform may select the specific type of umbrella based on considerations such as other attributes of the avatar where the avatar is to be presented etc. Therefore the API may allow the other applications to have a certain level of granularity in specifying the attribute.

The traffic application determines that the user is in a traffic jam. Therefore the traffic application sends a request to the avatar platform to show the user s avatar in a traffic jam. In one embodiment the traffic application sends a numeric value that is defined in the API as corresponding to showing an avatar in traffic.

The stock application determines that the stock prices are down. This may be stock prices in general a specific stock the user s stock portfolio etc. Therefore the stock application sends a request to the avatar platform to show the user s avatar as having grey hair. In one embodiment the stock application sends a numeric value that is defined in the API as corresponding to showing an avatar as having grey hair.

As previously mentioned the applications may be on the user s electronic device . The following are examples of such applications sending requests to affect the user s avatar. The messenger application determines that the user is conducting an IM session with the user s boss. Therefore the messenger application sends a request to the avatar platform to show the user s avatar as being alert. In one embodiment the messenger application sends a numeric value that is defined in the API as corresponding to showing an avatar as being alert.

The music application determines that the user is listening to music. Therefore the music application sends a request to the avatar platform to show the user s avatar as tapping its feet. In one embodiment the music application sends a numeric value that is defined in the API as corresponding to showing an avatar as tapping its feet.

In step the application determines what attributes the user should be allowed to control. Referring to the example of the API may allow many different attributes to be specified. However it may not be desirable or useful for a given application to allow the user to control all of the possible attributes. For example attributes related to the user s surroundings might not be very pertinent to a weather application . Note that the determination in step may be made by the application accessing a list of attributes that are stored in a computer readable medium. For example a software developer might determine which of the attributes in the API the user should be allowed to control. Note that this allows for a very powerful way to have a wide variety of information to be intelligently applied to affecting the user s avatar.

In step the application presents a user interface for the user to choose how information which may pertain to the user s life should affect the user s avatar. The information may pertain to real events that are pertinent the user s life such as the weather user s surroundings who the user is with etc. The interface might contain a first list of events and a second list of attributes. For example the events could include rain cold sunny fog. The attributes could include umbrella parasol sunglasses frown smile etc. Note that the events in this example are information that is available to a weather application. The user s electronic device may have a wide range of applications that have access to a wide range of information that could be pertinent to real life events that the user might desire to have impact their avatar. Also the user s electronic device may be in communication with a wide range of applications on a server or other electronic device which also may have access to pertinent information for affecting the user s avatar.

In step the application receives a selection of at least one of the events and one or more attributes for each event. For example the user selects the event rain and the attributes umbrella and frown if the user wants their avatar to carry an umbrella and frown when it is raining The user may go on to select the event sunny and the attribute sunglasses. Therefore the user may select a variety of different weather events along with how their avatar is to be affected by each weather event.

In step the application stores an indication of the one or more attributes that are to be associated with each event. For example the attributes umbrella and frown are stored in association with the event rain the attribute sunglasses is stored in association with the event sunny etc.

In one embodiment the user is allowed to gift an avatar attribute to another user. For example a mother might send an umbrella attribute to her daughter if it is raining so that the daughter s avatar does not get wet. is a flowchart of one embodiment of a process for an application allowing a user to send an avatar attribute to another user. Process is one implementation of steps of process . Steps of process might be performed by one or more of a local application on the user s device a remote application on a remote device an application on a server and an avatar platform on any of the devices .

In step the application presents an interface for selecting an avatar attribute to send to another user. For example if the weather application determines that it is raining the weather application may present a graphical user interface that allows the user to select attributes to send to another user. In one embodiment the user causes the interface to be presented. For example when the user looks at the weather report the user decides to send an umbrella attribute to her daughter and therefore calls up the interface. In step the user selects the attribute to send to the other user. Steps are collectively one embodiment of steps of process .

In step the selected attribute is sent to the other person s electronic device. For example the weather application sends the umbrella attribute to the avatar platform on the remote electronic device by using the API . Step is one embodiment of step of process .

In step the avatar platform on the remote electronic device presents a message that indicates that an avatar attribute has been received from another user. The message may ask the user whether their avatar should be updated based on the received attribute. If the user allows their avatar to be updated step then the avatar platform present their avatar with the received attribute. For example the daughter s avatar is presented with an umbrella. If the user denies the offer to apply the attribute to their avatar step then the avatar platform discards the attribute step . Steps are one embodiment of step of process .

In various embodiments the electronic devices execute computer readable instructions that are stored on computer readable media. For example process and or may be implemented by executing on a processor instructions that are stored on a computer readable storage medium. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the electronic devices. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may comprise computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the computer readable instructions and which can accessed by the electronic devices.

Similarly computer may also have input devices and or output devices . Other aspects of device may include communication connections to other devices computers networks servers etc. using either wired or wireless media. For example the electronic devices may have a wireless network connection that allows them to access the Internet or another network. The electronic devices may also have communication connections between themselves.

One or more application programs are loaded into memory and executed on the processor by the operating system . Examples of applications include email programs scheduling programs PIM personal information management programs word processing programs spreadsheet programs Internet browser programs and so forth. In one embodiment applications include a shared workspace program.

The handheld computing device also has a notification manager loaded in memory which executes on the processor . The notification manager handles notification requests from the applications .

The handheld computing device has a power supply which is implemented as one or more batteries. The power supply might further include an external power source that overrides or recharges the built in batteries such as an AC adapter or a powered docking cradle.

The handheld computing device is also shown with three types of external notification mechanisms an LED a vibration device and an audio generator . These devices are directly coupled to the power supply so that when activated they remain on for a duration dictated by the notification mechanism even though the processor and other components might shut down to conserve battery power. The LED preferably remains on indefinitely until the user takes action. The current versions of the vibration device and audio generator may use too much power for today s batteries and so they are configured to turn off when the rest of the system does or at some finite duration after activation.

To make the drawing of general to a variety of devices not all components are depicted. The handheld computing device could be used to implement a cellular telephone with additional communication components.

With reference to an exemplary system for implementing some embodiments includes a general purpose computing device in the form of a computer . For example computer system may be used to implement electronic devices such as electronic device remote electronic device server etc. Components of computer may include but are not limited to a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. By way of example and not limitation such architectures include Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus Enhanced ISA EISA bus Video Electronics Standards Association VESA local bus and Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus also known as Mezzanine bus.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and or nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and or program modules that are immediately accessible to and or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates operating system application programs other program modules and program data . In one embodiment the avatar platform is part of the operating system . However the avatar platform is not required to be part of the operating system .

The computer may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media. By way of example only illustrates a hard disc drive that reads from or writes to non removable nonvolatile magnetic media and a magnetic disc drive that reads from or writes to a removable nonvolatile magnetic disc . Computer may further include an optical media reading device to read and or write to an optical media.

Other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes flash memory cards DVDs digital video tapes solid state RAM solid state ROM and the like. The hard disc drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface . Magnetic disc drive and optical media reading device are typically connected to the system bus by a removable memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computer . In for example hard disc drive is illustrated as storing operating system application programs other program modules and program data . These components can either be the same as or different from operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies.

A user may enter commands and information into the computer through input devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be another electronic device in the shared workspace. However the remote computer could be a device that is not in the shared workspace such as a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and may includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks. Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computer typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communication over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or other appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof may be stored in the remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on memory device . In some embodiments remote application programs include a shared workspace program that is downloaded to computer . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing a communication link between the computers may be used.

While some embodiments are implemented by executing computer readable instructions that are stored on computer readable media this is not a requirement in all embodiments. Some embodiments may be implemented in hardware or a combination of hardware and software. For example at least some of the steps of process and or may be implemented within an ASIC. As a particular example a portion of the electronic devices may be implemented with an ASIC.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

