---

title: Nautic alert apparatus, system and method
abstract: In at least one exemplary embodiment, an autonomous onboard monitoring and communications system for watercraft is disclosed. The autonomous onboard monitoring and communications system may include a processor, at least one system console, a plurality of sensors configured to monitor operating and environmental conditions aboard the watercraft, a system application including a plurality of software logic service modules configured to facilitate communication between the plurality of sensors and the system console, an analytic engine configured to analyze data so as to determine the existence of an event, and a plurality of communications interfaces for directly communicating with remote targeted recipients.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08531316&OS=08531316&RS=08531316
owner: 
number: 08531316
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100628
---
The present invention claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 255 639 filed on Oct. 28 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Today many people own a boat or other nautical vessel. Often times an owner keeps the boat or vessel at a marina harbor dock trailer other suitable location away from a home residence or even at a home residence. Many of these places do not have security or monitoring services. Due to this lack of security or monitoring many boats and vessels are susceptible to various risks of damage when left unattended including for example high levels of water in a boat smoke gas fumes unexpected movement of an anchored boat and unexpected movement of a boat from its dock or trailer. The resulting damage from these events can be large. Moreover boats are often stored in close proximity to many other boats increasing the potential risk for more damage. The ability to efficiently monitor detect alert and respond to these types of events becomes the key to minimizing damage in the boating world.

Certain known solutions to the above described issues may involve on board monitoring systems. Many such solutions typically reference a land based data center land based remote site land based network operations center or land based center of operations or remote land based website which is typically understood in the art to be a data processing point for information controlled and facilitated at least by computer hardware operating systems applications storage and communication networks.

Generally vessel monitoring systems include a telemetry type of device or a device with a microprocessor installed on a vessel that is used to capture a data point value for example an On or Off value or a 0 or 1 value from a sensor. Typically such devices can receive data points from onboard sensors and subsequently forward it to a land based center via wireless communications for data processing. In turn the land based center applies algorithms to the received data so as to analyze the data and determine the existence or non existence of a problem. The land based center may then notify the owner of the vessel that a problem exists and pursue further courses of action to resolve the problem. A typical model for such vessel monitoring systems that are known in the art is shown in . However such vessel monitoring system s depend on land based computer systems and therefore the vessel onboard telemetry device cannot bypass the land based center for the purposes of data processing and communicating alerts or information to the vessel owner. The requirement of routing all operations through and cooperating with the land based center restricts or limits the ability to offer onboard functionality in an efficient manner. In addition the dependency on the land based center means that the vessel s onboard telemetry asset is not standalone nor independent which limits the asset s ability to solve or mitigate the vessel owner risks autonomously hence mitigation of vessel owner risks and solution of any existing problems according to the known art requires that the onboard telemetry device and the land based computers work together as one system to complete key core processes that address the risks and existing problems.

At least one exemplary embodiment described herein includes a nautic alert method system and apparatus. In the exemplary method system and apparatus an intelligent interactive embedded computer system may monitor detect analyze or alert a vessel owner harbormaster or a service provider of user selected boat events conditions statuses trends or event history through hardware and software. The method system and apparatus may minimize false positive alerts and may efficiently detect potential hazard and alert a user.

In the exemplary embodiment as shown in the nautic alert method system and apparatus may operate as an onboard autonomous and independent system and may not have a dependency on a land based center or computer. The method system and apparatus may further be configured to present enhanced reports to a vessel owner via a mobile device or a remote computer and to present information related to online nautical and standard maps weather fuel level usage and consumption vessel speed vessel location and the vessel s traveled course. Such information may be presented while onboard the vessel or via a remote computer display or mobile device. The method system and apparatus may further be configured to not operate on a subscription based system for provision of reports information and certain information that is described herein.

Furthermore in the exemplary embodiment the nautic alert system method and apparatus may place the required logic intelligence and capability to solve and mitigate risks onboard the vessel in an integrated and autonomous fashion. The nautic alert system method and apparatus may allow the system to monitor detect analyze present information and communicate directly with the vessel owner or other desired targets while the owner or other desired targets are onboard the vessel or while they are away from the vessel. The nautic alert system method and apparatus may eliminate the need for a land based center to complete key core processes. The nautic alert system method and apparatus may processes data onboard the vessel and may make decisions onboard the vessel based on defined policies application logic and the nautic alert analytic engine and process analysis method.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the spirit or the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of exemplary embodiments of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention. Further to facilitate an understanding of the description discussion of several terms used herein follows.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the terms embodiments of the invention embodiments or invention do not require that all embodiments of the method system or apparatus include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

Security monitoring and vital event monitoring functionalities may address certain boat owner risks. To that end security monitoring and event monitoring may include observing certain events and conditions . Such events and conditions may include but are not limited to security events vessel location tracking vital vessel events and personal emergency response needs. Video and audio support functionalities may include surveillance and communication capabilities for example and not limited to surveillance of a vessel bridge or a specific compartment or video conferencing. Vessel and support information functionalities may include monitoring and analyzing as an example and not limited to hereto bilge water level measurements fuel level measurements traveling speed measurements engine related measurements and other types of measurements. Vessel and support information functionalities may also provide as an example and not limited to nautical maps standard maps weather information vital vessel trends vital vessel history and system statuses. Communication and reporting functionalities may provide the ability for as an example and not limited to delivery of events and alerts to targeted recipients requests to targeted individuals or entities for help or assistance and two way information exchange between the nautic alert system and targeted individuals or entities.

Nautic alert system may be an intelligent system that may utilize an analytic engine shown in to perform analyses of sensor data points and to perform event analyses in an effort to eliminate false positive messages and to promote proactive behavior that may help mitigate various disasters and events. Sensor events may be fed into analytic engine which may evaluate the event against an alert policy and may give additional feedback about a critical event for example whether the event has gone beyond critical or back to a normal state. A critical event may also be evaluated over a period of time as having become worse or better for example by reporting and measuring quantitative data from a sensor. To successfully monitor detect analyze and issue alerts system may include the following hardware and software 

In one exemplary embodiment as shown in a system architecture such as the Nautic Alert Architecture may be composed of hardware and software that may create an intelligent interactive embedded system that may monitor detect analyze or alert a vessel owner harbormaster or service provider of events that may require attention or immediate response. The boat owner may interact with system by way of an Intuitive Graphical User Interface IGUI such as the Nautic Alert Graphical User Interface which may be displayed on a touchscreen for easy navigation. The IGUI layer may communicate with an application logic layer such as the Nautic Alert Application Logic layer. Application logic layer may contain core system algorithms. By way of the operating system a system application such as the Nautic Alert System Application may communicate with system hardware such as the Nautic Alert Hardware. System architecture may include support for wireless sensors such as Nautic Alert Wireless Sensors. The System may identify a genuine wireless sensor from a foreign wireless sensor as a function of security management logic . Encrypted communication may take place between system console and the wireless sensors.

System may be an interactive system. Interaction may take place from a system console or from mobile devices such as for example a cell phone smartphone laptop computer or personal digital assistant PDA . Event messages may be sent utilizing Short Message Service SMS standards for notification. Overview of statuses trends historical data and forensics may be facilitated through a portal such as the Nautic Alert Portal and changes to the operating mode or settings may be accomplished through system console or from a mobile device. The portal and system console may communicate using the wireless markup language WML over short message service SMS or WML with the wireless application protocol WAP .

In one exemplary embodiment nautic alert system may include a system console as shown in . System console such as the Nautic Alert System Console may contain a Central Processor Unit CPU integrated into printed circuit boards motherboard with integrated memory and buses which may operate on direct current DC power via a DC power interface or on alternating current AC power via a shore power interface and may have an internal battery backup power source and management. Application logic level software such as Nautic Alert Application Logic level software may communicate with an IGUI such as the Nautic Alert IGUI with electronic components on the motherboard and with sensors. Application logic level software can thus be the logic engine and algorithm software that facilitates the functionality of system .

Console may be mounted in a vertical position to a bulkhead fastened to a stand set into an instrumentation console set into a panel installed inside a cabinet locker or other type of location. Console may use a touch screen coupled with the IGUI which may enable the user to interact with system application . IGUI may produce summarized information in an executive summary or in details and may guide the end user to targeted areas that may need attention or present risk. The IGUI may also include an embedded Help system that may aid the customer in answering system related questions.

Console may include an enclosure and an embedded audio speaker that can facilitate making two way voice calls and can act as a receiver for an intercom system. Console may also include a siren which can emit variable pitch sounds as system warnings or as certain events arise onboard the vessel. Console may also include a primary power indicator which can show color status notifications for primary power on primary power off or a problem with power. Console may further include a system message indicator which can show color status notifications for system messages that indicate no messages messages that requires immediate action or messages that are proactive in nature. Console may further include an operating mode indicator which can show color status notifications for whether system is operating in an onboard mode that is system is operating in a configuration optimized for when the vessel owner is onboard or in an away mode that is system is armed and operating in a configuration optimized for when nobody is onboard the vessel and the vessel is closed and secured . Console may further include a microphone which can allow two way conversations one way conversations as part of an intercom configuration to facilitate listening for intruders or for surveillance purposes. Console may also include a temperature sensor which can measure ambient temperature in the vicinity of console . Console may also include an emergency response button which when depressed can display on touch screen a selection of pre programmed emergency situations. Selecting a pre programmed emergency situation can initiate contact with and communicate desired actions and conditions to desired targets or entities. Console may also include at least two integrated motion detector sensors that can detect bodily motion when the operating mode is set to away. Motion sensors can also be disabled through user configuration options within the system application . When one or both of the motion detector sensors detect bodily motion the sensor can interact with motion sensor logic which may in turn make a call to the analytic engine for analysis and appropriate execution of logic based on system policies user policies and on analysis process model shown in . Console may also include an integrated camera that can capture still pictures or video within the targeted area and that can interface with video and sound logic through device driver manager . Viewing of the targeted area can occur directly on the touch screen or can occur from a remote location using a mobile device or remote computer. Console may also include an integrated Global Positioning System GPS receiver and integrated antenna a WiFi interface and integrated antenna a Global System for Mobile Communication GSM wireless modem and integrated antenna a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA modem and integrated antenna a wireless sensor coordinator controller for the nautic alert wireless devices and a wireless sensor radio and integrated antenna that can interface at the operating system hardware layer with wireless sensor layer .

Console may further include a proprietary main digital circuit board power interface and other interfaces and buses which may facilitate interconnecting the components of console . Such components may include but are not limited to CPU memory WiFi modems video interface audio interface wireless coordinator controller wireless radio and all other identified electronic components depicted in . The components may interact with each other through the proprietary main digital circuit board power interface other interfaces and buses and with the system application . As an illustrative and non limiting example such communication may also utilize various methods such as GSM CDMA WiFi to wireless satellite services WiFi to wireless broadband services wired Ethernet to satellite services and wired Ethernet to broadband services. System application may be configured to seamlessly auto switch between any provided integrated wireless communication methods in an effort to mitigate the risk of an unavailable or problematic wireless connection for communication to a set of targeted recipients or services and to use all available options to increase communication reliability.

Active features of console and system may be based on the operating mode of system and on user activated features. Possible operating modes may include at least an onboard operating mode and an away operating mode. The onboard mode may be used when the vessel owner or other desired individuals are onboard the vessel. In this mode the motion detectors camera and microphone may be disabled and wireless sensor settings for the onboard mode may default to a different set of thresholds. Such thresholds may account for the vessel being in operation and can eliminate false positives due to environmental changes such as the vessel moving or from vessel operation. When the vessel owner or other individuals are no longer onboard or when the vessel is secured in a port the operating mode can be set to away. In the away operating mode motion detectors camera and microphone may be enabled and the wireless sensor settings set for the away operating mode may be activated. This may disable change or otherwise modify the active thresholds established under the onboard mode. The operating mode may be changed from system console or from the vessel owner s cell phone or other mobile device.

System console may be powered by direct current DC and may have a DC power interface which can interface with the vessel s DC power. Console may further include a secondary alternating current AC power interface which can interface with shore power that is power from sources external to the vessel. The voltage levels for both DC power interface and AC power interface may be measured continuously by the power management logic of system application and such measurements can be reported to analytic engine . Console may also include a backup power battery which may be utilized in the event that both DC power and AC power are lost. Backup power battery may therefore enable console to continue operating for an a period of time after loss of power.

System console may also include a National Marine Electronics Association 2000 NMEA 2000 interface for facilitating compliance with electrical and data specifications protocols for a marine data network that is used for communication between other NMEA 2000 compliant marine electronic devices. Such devices may include but are not limited to navigation instruments depth finders engine sensors and instruments tank level sensors and other applicable type of devices. The NMEA 2000 interface can support a hardwired connection or can be accessed through the Zigbee NMEA 2000 wireless bridge. The Nautic Alert intelligent wireless sensors can operate on a dedicated Controller Area Network CAN bus and can utilize the NMEA 2000 protocol that resides on top of the CAN bus. The CAN bus may interact with the intelligent wireless sensor architecture at the physical layer at the Media Access Control MAC layer and at the ZigBee data link controller layer . That is the Nautic Alert intelligent wireless sensors may connect directly to the CAN bus through a NMEA 2000 hardwire interface or may connect to the CAN bus through a wireless Zigbee CAN bridge.

IGUI may include but is not limited to presentation and navigation logic and setup wizard logic . Application logic may include but is not limited to analytic engine sensor management logic communication management logic event management logic security management logic power management logic video and sound logic power sensor logic soft GPS sensor logic motion sensor logic smoke sensor logic vessel tracking logic gas fume logic temperature sensor logic ultrasonic water sensor logic fuel level sensor logic map and weather logic remote application logic coordinator custom logic and remote coordination logic .

System application may run on top of a commercial operating system within the operating system machine code process layer and may interface with the operating system APIs utilizing APIs of system application . System application may interface with the operating system kernel layer via the operating system kernel which may contains kernel core library . Kernel core library may provide functionality such as but not limited to registry and file system management memory management process loading scheduler process and thread memory management graphics graphic windowing and graphic event subsystem network APIs and device driver management .

CPU may interact with the system application by fetching the application instructions which may be stored in random access memory RAM and in read only memory ROM by the process and thread memory manager of the operating system kernel . CPU may return a set of results from processing system application instructions to the operating system kernel which in turn may result in completed instructions data or new instructions to be processed by the CPU . The application logic results may then be made visible to a vessel owner or user for example in graphical form in specific actions in data in messages in alerts in reports and in other forms and methods.

Device drivers may interact with operating system device driver manager at operating system kernel layer and operating system hardware layer . Such interaction may be facilitated via interfaces such as video audio mouse USB COM and LAN thereby resulting in direct communication with hardware and the intelligent wireless sensors.

The wireless sensors with the exception of the alternating current AC power sensor may be direct current DC powered devices with internal backup battery power. The water level and DC power sensors may obtain their primary power from the vessel s DC system. The AC power sensor may have an internal backup power supply with a primary power source from the vessel s AC shore power.

Turning to system may include an intelligent wireless sensor architecture which in turn may include an operating system hardware layer and a wireless sensor layer . Wireless sensor layer may include digital logic layer IEEE 802.15.4 physical layer IEEE 802.15.4 media access control MAC layer ZigBee data link controller layer ZigBee networking application layer and remote application logic . The above listed components of wireless sensor layer can facilitate the exchange of data and application instructions between remote application logic layer and system application .

Digital logic layer may include a digital circuit board power interface other interfaces and buses and may facilitate interconnecting the electronic components of the wireless sensor units such as wireless radios interfaces memory capacitors relays and other electronic components that enable system to function as described herein.

The upper level of the communication protocol suite may be based on the ZigBee communication protocol which may provide network layer and data link layer of the communication protocol. The lower level of the communication protocol suite may include physical layer and Medium Access Control MAC layer and may be based on the IEEE 802.15.4 wireless data transfer standard.

System application and remote application logic may include application level logic that can enable application level communication functionality between the system console and the intelligent wireless sensor devices. Such functionality may be separate and distinct from the ZigBee upper level communication protocol suite. The application level communication logic may include the following capabilities and functionalities 1 a proprietary application level communication protocol 2 enhanced security measures to prevent against non trusted communication 3 future scalability that can allow support for an NMEA 2000 to Nautic Alert bridge and interface wherein a physical wireless sensor can act as though it contains multiple sensors that may be located on another physical medium 4 an enhanced automatic error recovery and additional security algorithms supporting dynamic frequency hopping and dynamic network ID change capability 5 an ability to reset coordinator ID to automatically recover a Nautic Alert intelligent wireless sensor that may have initially bound to another coordinator and 6 an ability to set update rate based on aggressive reporting or conservative battery consumption.

Remote application logic may support the functional application and purpose of each unique intelligent wireless sensor. The intelligence within each wireless sensor may be established by the interaction of remote application logic analytic engine and analysis process model as shown in .

Turning back to system may be equipped with a GPS receiver and a soft GPS sensor that can capture navigation data such as longitude latitude speed heading and altitude for the vessel. GPS receiver and soft GPS sensor may be for example integrated into the cabin of the boat or vessel provided in an external antenna a wireless system or the like. By capturing these data points along with other data and applying appropriate algorithms system may monitor for anchor slippage when a vessel is anchored. If soft GPS sensor detects a change in drift distance and angle that violates user defined policies and thresholds system may alert the vessel owner or other targeted recipients using multiple options as defined under the policies of communication manager logic .

When a vessel is moored offshore or docked in a marina if the vessel is moved from its location soft GPS sensor may detect the change and system may alert the vessel owner marina harbormaster service provider or other targeted recipients using multiple options as defined under the communication manager logic policies that the vessel may have moved unexpectedly from its port and may further provide current location information. System may also allow for GPS stabilization on cold resets or normalized distance calculations that may prevent location outlier readings from generating false positives. Thus system may prevent false positive readings due to natural environmental factors that influence the GPS s accuracy or false positives that may occur due to poor GPS readings for example in remote areas of the globe.

Turning now to system application may further include vessel tracking logic service module which can interact with soft GPS sensor logic service module. Such interaction may include but is not limited to creating the following capability functionality and data points 1 tracking the course of a vessel destination and originating location 2 tracking travel time longitude latitude speed and heading between the origination point the final destination point and points therebetween and 3 tracking past routes or courses that a vessel traveled.

System application may include fuel level sensor logic service module which can obtain periodic measurements of a vessel s fuel level in coordination with vessel tracking logic service module and maps and weather logic service module. All included service modules can provide and send information to analytic engine for process analysis as shown in . As an illustrative example an owner of a fleet of vessels can review various online reports to protect against fuel theft to measure efficiency to manage costs and for other goals and objectives. Analysis of said information by a vessel owner can be further enhanced by factoring additional variables such as weight weather tide and water current information to determine impact on fuel consumption.

System console may further include the capability and functional ability to display via touch screen online nautical and standard maps and weather information as part of the map and weather logic service module. Such ability to stream internet based online nautical and standard maps may eliminate the need for specific geographic location memory cards and the need to perform periodic system library updates. A map image of the vessel s current location can be downloaded and buffered such that the geo fence representation can be overlaid on the map and the map layers can be animated thus reducing the need for additional map downloads. Additionally the online weather information capability may reduce the need for bulky and expensive radar rendering equipment commonly found on an onboard weather device.

System when in away operating mode may detect bodily movement in the cabin with integrated motion detection sensors . System may also include a wireless motion detector sensor for additional compartments. At detection system may initiate and send an alert to the vessel owner marina harbormaster service provider or other targeted recipients using multiple options as defined under the communication manager logic policies. System may also initiate an audio alert via siren of console . System may further have a deactivation feature using the boat owner s cell phone. That is away operating mode may be deactivated or changed via the vessel owner s cell phone for example by issuing an SMS text message to system console . The cell phone can further be used for example and not limited to hereto maintenance of the boat by being able to remotely arm disarm or otherwise change the operating mode of system console . Such SMS text message interface capability may also be used for example to query the vessel s coordinates to reset alerts to get system information and to access or modify other functions of console directly without requiring a subscription and without utilization of a central facility. The SMS text message interface may be limited to phone numbers that have been pre registered with the console so that security attacks from non trusted phones may be prevented.

System console may include an integrated camera video unit and microphone that are configured to capture a still picture of the surrounding area or to capture video with sound of the surrounding area. Such visual data may be used for security purposes management purposes surveillance and for video conferencing as illustrative non limiting examples. Microphone can be used alone so as to capture voice for intercom services or for two way telephone conversations. The functionality associated with pictures video and sound can be supported and enabled by system application and by video and sound logic service module.

System may monitor power with integrated wired and wireless sensors and to that end may utilize power management logic and power sensor logic . The categories for power monitoring and detection may include at least primary DC power interface shore AC power interface backup battery power vessel DC power for a first battery bank vessel DC power for a second battery bank and Nautic Alert intelligent wireless device power interfaces. If power management logic or analytic engine detect the loss of AC power a critical reduction in the vessel s DC voltage or a power risk for the continuous operation of the vessel s power system or of system system may alert the boat owner marina harbor master service provider or other targeted recipients using multiple options as defined under the communication manager logic policies. Communication manager logic policies can be derived from user policies therefore the boat owner or user may decide for example the point at which the voltage level would generate an alert as well as detected conditions for charging or discharging battery states.

System may detect gas fumes in a designated vessel compartment. System detects an irregular level of fumes it may alert the boat owner marina harbormaster service provider or other targeted recipients using multiple options as defined under communication manager logic policies.

Turning to system may include an intelligent wireless DC power and gas fume sensor unit . Unit may include a body enclosure a facial enclosure and a trim cover to conceal mounting fasteners. The front of unit may include battery bank connectors and power indicators to facilitate connecting up to two separate DC main power sources which can serve as inputs to be measured and monitored by unit . The front of unit may also include a gas fume sensor that can be used to measure gas fume levels for a desired area. During operation inputs from battery connectors and gas fume sensor can be captured through main digital circuit board interfaces and buses by remote application logic which may reside in memory of unit . The resulting instructions from remote application logic may then be processed by CPU . Wireless sensor layer may then communicate with operating system hardware layer via wireless sensor interface wireless sensor radio and wireless antenna . In hardware layer wireless sensor coordinator controller and coordinator custom logic service module can interact with operating system kernel layer resulting in application level communication with power sensor logic service module and gas fume sensor logic service module of system application . The inputs received by power sensor logic service module and gas fume sensor logic service module can then be utilized by analytic engine for analysis processing per the analysis process model shown in .

System may detect changes in water level from the boat owner s defined base using a sensor for example a wireless ultrasonic sensor. In addition to being able to detect against a pre determined threshold this sensor may send additional alerts if the measured water level continues to rise for example due to reasons like a clogged water drain pipe a failed bilge pump a leaky thru hull fitting or a water leak greater than the bilge pump capacity. Changes in water level may be measured and detected at less than one inch with the use of sound waves. Changes in water level may be evaluated against the boat owner threshold and reported according to certain policies. Alerts may be sent to the boat owner marina harbor master or service provider using multiple options as defined under communication manager logic policies.

Turning to system may include an intelligent wireless ultrasonic water level and temperature sensor and switch unit . Unit may include a water resistant enclosure and a DC and NMEA 2000 power in connector to facilitate providing power to unit from a DC power source that may be aboard the vessel. Unit may further include an internal moisture sensor that can facilitate measuring moisture levels within enclosure . Such measuring of moisture levels may be a proactive process facilitated and managed by ultrasonic water sensor logic service module to so as to increase reliability and performance levels.

Unit may further include a waterproof dual ultrasonic sonar water level sensor module and a waterproof temperature sensor . Ultrasonic water level sensor module may include dual ultrasonic sensors so as to provide redundancy in the case of sensor failure. The front of unit may be positioned over a desired area that can contain water or liquid and may further be positioned so as to expose ultrasonic water level sensor module and temperature sensor to the desired area. The ultrasonic water level sensor module may then emit a concentrated pulse of sound waves to the targeted surface area and subsequently can measure the length of time for the sound to be reflected back to sensor module . As the sound moves at a fast and constant speed the distance to the targeted bottom surface and back can be calculated. The targeted bottom surface may represent an area with no liquid at the time in which the baseline is established that is the baseline may be equal to zero inches or equivalent thereof in other measuring units . When liquid enters the targeted bottom surface area the length of time for the sound to be reflected back to the said sensor module can decrease due to the presence of liquid above the bottom surface. Sensor module can then measure the change in time for the sound to reflect off the liquid surface within the targeted area and may calculate a change in level from a zero level to the new level in inches or other desired measuring units.

During operation inputs from internal moisture sensor ultrasonic water level sensor module and waterproof temperature sensor can be captured through the proprietary main digital circuit board interfaces and buses by remote application logic which may reside memory of unit . The resulting instructions from remote application logic mayt then be processed by CPU . Wireless sensor layer may then communicate with operating system hardware layer via wireless sensor interface wireless sensor radio and wireless antenna . In hardware layer wireless sensor coordinator controller and coordinator custom logic service module can interact with operating system kernel layer resulting in application level communication with ultrasonic water sensor logic service module and temperature sensor logic service module of system application . The inputs received by ultrasonic water sensor logic service module and temperature sensor logic service module can then be utilized by analytic engine for analysis processing per the analysis process model shown in .

Unit may include a connector that is adapted for a primary or secondary bilge pump. Connector may be a DC and NMEA 2000 power out connector and may be configured to control the operation and the on off state of a supported bilge pump. Unit can be used as a bilge pump switch and may thus replace the float switch for a bilge pump. Unit may also be used as a switch to a secondary bilge pump and can utilize ultrasonic water level sensor to measure the water level. The user may modify user policy to set a desired maximum and minimum water level. When the water level reaches such a maximum level the internal relay of unit can be closed thereby allowing DC power to flow to the bilge pump. The bilge pump is thus turned on and can pump water out of the bilge area until the ultrasonic sonar water level sensor module measures a minimum lower water level that meets the predetermined user policy based minimum level. Internal relay may then be opened turning off the bilge pump. Furthermore with or without the use of the switch function illustrated in the ultrasonic water level sensor module in conjunction with remote application logic can report to system console and to system application periodic water level measurements and bilge pump operating time. Such measurements may then be processed utilizing analytic engine and analysis process model .

Ultrasonic water level sensor module may check water level at least once per second so as to conserve power and may be configured via touch screen of console to perform varying time checks. Unit may also be able to recalibrate and zero out a sensor reading on the fly. By default the sensor may measure a set distance. Once the sensor has been installed the zero distance mark may reside inside of a distance range. For example if the bilge normally has a inch of water present due to normal operations the zero distance mark will be at the top of the inch of water and any additional rise in level may be reported. Should the user want to adjust the zero distance mark the ultrasonic water level sensor module may be recalibrated with a new zero distance mark. The user may further utilize console to restore product defaults so as to allow a vessel owner or installer to see how much additional space they have to work with before a sensor reading is registered in the event the bilge height is greater than the maximum range distance detected by the sensor. This can allow the user to ascertain whether the sensor is mounted within a proper range.

Ultrasonic water level sensor module may include two ultrasonic water level sensors for redundancy purposes so that the failure of one sensor does not impede the operation of unit . Ultrasonic water sensor logic of system application may detect a failed ultrasonic sensor and can automatically modify the operation of unit to operate on one ultrasonic sensor within the ultrasonic water level sensor module . An automatic modification due to an unexpected failed ultrasonic sensor may further result in a system message alert to the boat owner or user. In the case of ultrasonic sensor failure or as otherwise may be desired ultrasonic water level sensor module can be replaced without replacing the entire unit .

System may utilize integrated and wireless sensors to detect temperature that may be approaching or have reached freezing levels. The user may customize upper and lower temperature threshold settings for which alerts are sent. System may alert the vessel owner of such temperature changes in each desired compartment or as an overall temperature warning in order to mitigate risk of damage to for example engine s water strainers water lines or thru hull fittings.

As shown in intelligent wireless ultrasonic water level and temperature sensor and switch unit may further include a temperature sensor which can measure the temperature within a desired compartment area and can alert the vessel owner or other targeted recipients as an illustrative example of a potential freeze warning. The user can customize the upper and lower temperature threshold settings for which they wish to receive alerts via console .

System may detect smoke caused by fire or burning of materials. If system detects smoke it may alert the boat owner marina harbormaster service provider or other targeted recipients using multiple options as defined under the policies of communication manager logic .

Turning to system may include an intelligent wireless smoke detector temperature and motion detection sensor unit . Unit may include an enclosure and may be powered with AC or DC power using the AC DC and NMEA 2000 power interface or may operate from standalone batteries . Unit may also include an exposed temperature heat sensor a smoke and carbon monoxide detector a motion detector with a LED indicator a power indicator a siren and a user test button for testing the system.

During operation inputs from heat sensor smoke and carbon monoxide detector motion detector and user test button can be captured through the proprietary main digital circuit board interfaces and buses by remote application logic which may reside in memory of unit . The resulting instructions from remote application logic may then processed by the CPU . Wireless sensor layer may then communicate with operating system hardware layer via wireless sensor interface wireless sensor radio and wireless antenna . In hardware layer wireless sensor coordinator controller and coordinator custom logic service module can interact with operating system kernel layer resulting in application level communication with temperature sensor logic service module smoke sensor logic service module and motion sensor logic service module of system application . Smoke sensor logic may then apply appropriate algorithms to pre test for a false positive event. Inputs received by temperature sensor logic service module smoke sensor logic service module and motion sensor logic service module from the remote application logic can then be utilized by analytic engine for analysis processing per the analysis process model shown in . Upon declaration of an event by analytic engine and event manager siren may sound and an alert may be issued to the vessel owner and other targeted recipients as defined by the policies of communication manager logic .

Turning to system may include at least one personal emergency wireless unit . Unit may provide an individual present on a vessel with a safety device that can be used for example but not limited to to provide a personal injury or disablement notification or a notification of a passenger or crew member falling overboard from a vessel. Unit may be portable and may be adapted to be coupled to the person of an individual present aboard the vessel. The notification may be issued by depressing manual button . In the event that an individual has fallen overboard from a vessel the notification may be issued by depressing manual button or may be issued automatically by unit based on a diminution in the signal strength to the personal network or by the loss of signal to personal network .

Nautic Alert personal emergency wireless unit may include a body enclosure a manual button a battery level LED indicator to facilitate monitoring the strength of installed replaceable batteries and a network signal strength indicator . During operation the activation of unit whether via depressing manual switch via reduced signal strength or loss of signal to personal network may be captured through proprietary main digital circuit board interfaces and buses by remote application logic which may reside in memory of unit . Such activation can in turn activate siren . The resulting instructions from remote application logic may then be processed by CPU . Wireless sensor layer may then communicate with operating system hardware layer via wireless sensor interface wireless sensor radio and wireless antenna . In hardware layer wireless sensor coordinator controller and coordinator custom logic service module can interact with operating system kernel layer resulting in application level communication with system application . The inputs received by system application can then be utilized by analytic engine for analysis processing per the analysis process model shown in . If analytic engine and event manager declare an event siren of console may then emit high pitched variable sounds or any other desired alarm sound and may display on touch screen location information from soft GPS sensor logic service module. An alert may further be issued to the vessel owner and targeted recipients as defined by the policies of communication manager logic . Location information from soft GPS sensor logic service module may be included within the policies of communication manager logic .

System application may include sensor management logic so as to enable a user to easily identify add and remove desired sensors and desired units from personal network . A user may utilize IGUI of console to view the sensors that are active in personal network the status of the sensors the alert settings and thresholds of the sensors as well as the real time data being provided by those sensors. The user may further identify and troubleshoot wireless issues by seeing real time packet statistics signal strengths as well as whether or not a sensor has been detected as going offline or never coming online since a system power on event.

Sensor management features may include at least 1 a manual ability to scan for new sensors and add them to personal network 2 once sensors are added to the network limiting the communications thereof only to the trusted Communication Manager 3 online and offline sensor detection wherein if a sensor unexpectedly drops offline or will not come online error recovery may automatically initiate and rescan for a random clear channel to switch to in the event another network may be operating within range on the same channel this may allow the sensor network to self correct to a clear channel 4 ability to distinguish sensor instances through unique name 5 ability to view firmware levels and keep alive update rate 6 ability to view sensor type for example long range or standard range 7 ability to initiate alarm test to verify communication path and alert settings 8 ability to disassociate a sensor from the network and reset sensor into network discovery mode 9 ability to enable or disable a sensor on the personal network 10 ability to view sensor signal strength and real time packet statistics for troubleshooting purposes 11 ability to view all sensor types and online offline status in a single window 12 ability to see sensors with pending commands that are waiting to be sent and 13 ability to provide a summary of sensor statuses using red yellow and green graphical indicators.

Safeguards may provide additional security measures for the wireless sensors. This may help prevent wireless communication issues as well as rogue devices attempting to communicate within the personal network and compromise system security. System application may include a plurality of safeguards implemented via security management logic service module which can provide enhanced security measures for the wireless sensors and console . System application may be configured to discriminate between genuine or authorized wireless sensors devices and foreign wireless sensors devices as a function of security management logic service module. Such capabilities may facilitate reducing the likelihood of wireless communication issues impeding rogue devices from attempting to communicate with and within personal network and protecting the security of system from being compromised.

Safeguards of the system may include at least 1 security management logic service module may generate a random network ID to reduce the likelihood of coexistence of two or more networks having the same network ID 2 the ability to regenerate network ID and ability for networked sensors and units to auto discover and bind to this change 3 ability to view sensor firmware and sensor type for example long range standard range 4 the system may not communicate with non trusted or foreign sensors 5 ability to override channel assignment and prevent against channel scanning hopping and 6 physical layer wireless encryption.

System console may also include password protection features. Recovery of a lost password may be accomplished by requesting the password via a button on the sign on screen of IGUI . Upon request the system can send the password to the vessel owner by email or as a text message. System application can be configured so that access to console can be granted based on an individual s role such as administrator or non administrator . The individual s role may determine what modifications if any an individual can make to system application and which application screens can be presented via IGUI or allowed to be viewed on touch screen of console .

System application may include an event management logic service module which can enable an event log. The event log may contain a log of events captured by analysis process model over a period of time. The event log may contain a list of all reported events and non reported events. This list may be saved in a non volatile location for example in a non volatile location in console such that it may be retrieved after complete power loss is experienced. The event log may at least 1 show when alert policy has changed and been reset 2 show changes to sensors 3 show online offline alert events that attempted to send remotely 4 show password login attempt failure events as well as other miscellaneous events 5 time stamp and dates all logged events and 6 update event database as data points for portals.

Settings for system may be customized for example via IGUI of console . Such customizable settings may include at least 1 changing the language displayed in the IGUI 2 Setting enabling disabling password settings 3 choosing a password recovery contact 4 setting time and date 5 changing LCD brightness and power management controls 6 setting measurement units 7 setting user policies and 8 changing personal information such as for example marina dock pier slip address and boat name.

System features may be activated or deactivated using the boat owner s cellular phone Smartphone PDA PC or Laptop. As an example if a vessel owner is about to enter the cabin while motion sensor is currently active under the away mode the vessel owner using his or her cell phone can dial into the system and submit a code to change the operating mode from away to onboard prior to entering the vessel s cabin. The vessel owner can thus avoid the generation of an entry event and related messages and the activation of siren .

Communication manager logic can be a software component that may interact at the application logic level. Communication manager logic service module may be responsible for the at least the following 1 alert policies 2 sending alerts and 3 alert recipient contacts. The communication manager logic service module may utilize user defined policies to define alert policies to determine which events will generate alerts when the alerts will be sent how they will be sent to whom the alert will be sent and the repeated frequency for sending alerts. Alert policy management may be facilitated via the alert settings of user policies which are configured by the boat owner.

System may include a number of alert related features including but not limited to 1 sending an alert indicator and audio sound to system console and audio speaker thereof and or sending the alert to the vessel owner and other targeted recipients using cellular communication 2 specifying the number of repeat alert occurrences that should be sent or acknowledged locally based on time or number policy 3 specifying what type of sensor events should be sent for example online offline alerts or status events 4 specifying sensor thresholds for sending alerts 5 specifying a list of alert recipients 6 setting a time delay for cabin exit 7 setting individual sensor threshold settings and 8 requiring critical messages to be confirmed by recipients.

System may support bi directional cellular communication. To protect the system from unauthorized callers and unauthorized connections security management logic may have a list of authorized phone numbers and authorized personal identification numbers PINs as part of the authentication process. System console may contain an embedded Global System for Mobile GSM standard modem and a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA modem for direct wireless communication through existing service provider networks. To enable communication with certain provider networks an active Subscriber Identity Module SIM may be used. System console may provide user access to add or change a SIM. The Alert Application may provide the boat owner with SIM Management information so the system may communicate. System console may also be configured to interface with satellite and wireless broadband provider equipment utilizing wireless interface . System may further utilize operating system hardware layer to seamlessly auto switch between GSM modem CDMA modem wireless interface to satellite and wireless interface to broadband by monitoring the connection availability status health cost priority order and expected bandwidth load. Such functionality may be managed via system policies and user policies .

System via system application may have the ability to send alerts as email messages to the vessel owner s or other targeted recipients email accounts. Email messages may be sent directly from the system console to desired email accounts as illustrated in . Thus the need for a land based central server is eliminated. Furthermore security management logic service module of system application may encrypt email communications and may negotiate a secured connection for transmission of the encrypted email message using a Secured Socket Layer SSL protocol.

System application may include a setup wizard service module which may be a component of IGUI . Setup wizard may guide the end user through a non technical setup process and enforce dependency rules to setup the system and facilitate a simple and user friendly interface and method for system setup. Conversely system application may be configured and managed at a granular technical level for example by users that have specific requirements or a need for greater system visibility.

System application may also include a help manager. The Help Manager may provide user help information within interactive steps and within configuration sections of the system application. The Help Manager may also explain what each indicator means the purpose of each function and the best practice for the use of each function.

From time to time there may be a need to update the firmware of components of system or of system application . To accomplish an update there may be at least two methods 1 updates may be accomplished by inserting a compliant USB storage device into system console that contains authorized and approved system software and 2 updates may be accomplished as a push from a server to a targeted system using a signed company software image. Subsequently in either case system application and security management logic may then seek an electronically signed company software image on the USB device that certifies the said software image as authorized and approved for production distribution. The user may also be guided through the updating procedures via IGUI .

System may provide at least four distinct portals that can allow the display of enhanced information receive alerts and enable two way enhanced capabilities between system console and a mobile device or remote computer. The portals may include but are not limited to 1 Mobile Portal an application may run on a smartphone PC or laptop which may provide a boat owner with a status dashboard vessel location information video and sound capability historical data including courses traveled trend information and the ability to remotely change the configuration of system application with approved security credentials 2 Harbormaster Portal A web based application that may run on a PC or laptop that may provide a marina harbormaster with for example a red yellow or green graphical indicator for each vessel in the marina that has a system onboard. The application may enable a marina management team to remain proactive about situations that may create a threat to a single vessel or to other vessels property and lives in the marina 3 Service Provider Portal a web based application that may run within a three tier architecture the tiers including user presentation application and database providing a local or national monitoring service with for example a red yellow or green graphical indicator for each vessel with a system that has subscribed for monitoring services such as a boat owner or an entire marina. The Service Provider Portal may enable the service provider to directly contact for example police coast guard medical or fire emergency team within seconds of a critical alert and 4 Fleet Vessel Management Portal a web based cloud application that may provide a company with a fleet of vessels a view with enhanced reporting capability to aid as an illustrative example in enhanced vessel tracking capabilities travel coordinates longitude latitude heading communications including for example video conferencing data exchange fuel level consumption monitoring travel time correlation of information fuel theft prevention historical traveled courses information to aid in the analysis of operating expense opportunities and the ability to remotely change the configuration of the system application with approved security credentials. System may store data through event manager and the data may interact with external web services applications and databases.

The foregoing description and accompanying drawings illustrate the principles preferred embodiments and modes of operation of the invention. However the invention should not be construed as being limited to the particular embodiments discussed above. Additional variations of the embodiments discussed above will be appreciated by those skilled in the art.

Therefore the above described embodiments should be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive. Accordingly it should be appreciated that variations to those embodiments can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the following claims.

