---

title: Personalized content delivery system
abstract: A content delivery system for generating personalized content for a user. The system maintains an interest graph that shows the user's current attachment to one or more topics. When a user performs an action, a topic is determined for the action and the user's interest graph is modified based on the action. The system also receives content and analyzes the language of the content to determine a topic of the content. A similarity between the user's interests and the content is determined. The content is also analyzed to determine the popularity of the content. The user's interest level and the popularity of the content are then used to provide the user with a personalized content, such as a content recommendation or enhanced content.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08615442&OS=08615442&RS=08615442
owner: Project Rover, Inc.
number: 08615442
owner_city: Santa Monica
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 286 517 filed Dec. 15 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The disclosure generally relates to the field of behavioral analysis and more specifically to delivering personalized content.

Information overload is a common problem in today s online environment. Social networking websites produce millions of messages per day news websites post thousands of articles each day and video sharing websites add hundreds of megabytes of video each second. As the web expands and new content is made available it becomes increasingly difficult to find good content. In particular conventional content delivery systems are struggling to cope with the growing amount of online content. Because conventional systems have a limited amount of information about their users interests it is difficult for them to tailor content to the individual needs of each user.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One embodiment of a disclosed system method and computer readable storage medium for generating personalized content for a user. The system includes an interest graph that shows the user s current attachment to one or more topics and or the user s attachment to topics over time. To maintain the interest graph the system receives information about an action performed by a user. For example the action may create or interact with content. The language of the content is analyzed to determine a topic of the content. The system then modifies the graph of the user s interests to indicate the user s changed e.g. increased or decreased interest in the topic. Maintaining an interest graph based on the user s own actions thus enables up to date tracking of a user s interests thereby enabling generation of personalized content based on the user s interests.

To generate personalized content the system receives content such as news articles or advertisements. One or more topics of the content are determined by analyzing the language of the content. The system determines a similarity between the user s interests and the topics of the content and also determines the current popularity of the content. Personalized content is then generated for the user based on the determined similarity and the current popularity of the content. In this way the system uses the user s own interests to identify content that is likely to be important to the user.

The machine may be a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a tablet PC a set top box STB a personal digital assistant PDA a cellular telephone a smartphone a web appliance a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU a digital signal processor DSP one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs one or more radio frequency integrated circuits RFICs or any combination of these a main memory and a static memory which are configured to communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include graphics display unit e.g. a plasma display panel PDP a liquid crystal display LCD a projector or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system may also include alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a trackball a joystick a motion sensor or other pointing instrument a storage unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device which also are configured to communicate via the bus .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The instructions e.g. software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory or within the processor e.g. within a processor s cache memory during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The instructions e.g. software may be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions e.g. instructions . The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing instructions e.g. instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies disclosed herein. The term machine readable medium includes but not be limited to data repositories in the form of solid state memories optical media and magnetic media. The processes described herein are in the context of such an example machine.

As shown the content delivery system includes an ontology . In one embodiment the ontology is a data graph including a plurality of nodes and edges that connect the nodes. Each node represents a particular topic for example surfing or wakeboarding . Nodes are connected by edges that represent the relationships between multiple topics. For example the topics of surfing and wakeboarding can both be linked to the topic of extreme sports through an edge in the data graph. The edge can further indicate the type of relationship between one topic and another such as whether one topic is a sub topic of another topic. For example surfing and wakeboarding can be linked to extreme sports through an edge in the interest graph indicating that surfing and wakeboarding are sub topics of extreme sports. In other words the ontology can be viewed as a plurality of topics that are mapped into a graph which indicates the relationships between topics.

In one embodiment topics in the ontology are associated with a pre defined set of lexical features that represent linguistic characteristics of the topic. The lexical features can be used to analyze the language of textual content in order to identify a topic of the content. In one embodiment the lexical features are word patterns or textual signatures that are indicative of a particular topic. For example the topic of surfing may be associated with the word pattern of paddled out. Thus content that includes the word pattern paddled out with a fairly high frequency is likely to be content that involves the topic of surfing. As another example the topic of politics may be associated with the proper noun Barack Obama. Thus content that includes the word Barack Obama is likely to be content that involves the topic of politics. As a further example a lexical feature is a rule that says if a sentence starts with the phrase ABC is from then the sentence is likely to be about the topic ABC.

In one embodiment the ontology is accessed by the various modules for identifying the topics of content corresponding to user actions user content and content . One technique for creating an ontology is described in commonly owned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 968 194 titled Conversational Lexicon Analyzer filed on Dec. 14 2010 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The content delivery system also includes multiple content graph s . A content graph is separately maintained for each piece of content received by the content delivery system . Content includes any type of electronic content that contains text or metadata that can be used to identify the topic of the content. This includes for example webpages news articles advertisements blog posts forum posts product reviews Q A answers videos music applications or the like. Each content graph includes information about the topics associated with a piece of content as well as confidence score representing the likelihood that the topic matches the content. In one embodiment the content graphs also store other information about the content such as a virality score that indicates the current popularity of the content. In one embodiment content graphs are also stored for content corresponding to user actions . The process of building a content graph is further described in conjunction with .

The content module contains functionality for generating content graphs from incoming content such as new content or content corresponding to a user action . The content module extracts content into a normalized format so that the content can be analyzed with natural language processing techniques. The content module then analyzes the language of content to identify one or more topics of the new content using the ontology . In one embodiment each topic is assigned a confidence score to indicate the strength of the relationship between the piece of content and one or more topics. In one embodiment each piece of new content is also assigned a virality score to indicate the popularity of the new content . Using factors such as the topics confidence scores and virality score the content module outputs a content graph for each piece of new content. The result is a rich knowledgebase of content graphs that represent the topics popularity and relative importance of various pieces of content .

The content delivery system also includes multiple interest graphs . An interest graph is separately maintained for each user tracked by the content delivery system . Each interest graph represents the user s interest in a plurality of different topics. In one embodiment the interest graph for a user comprises a plurality of topics and the user s attachment level e.g. a level between 1 100 to each of the topics which provides an indication of topics that the user is interested in. In another embodiment the interest graph further comprises a user s attachment level to the topics over a period of time which provides an indication of rising and decreasing levels of interest. Initially each interest graph may be created from a user explicitly providing the user s interests to the content delivery system or created from the user s profile information as stored in a social networking website e.g. TWITTER FACEBOOK . The interest graphs can be updated by the interest module based on received user actions . Additionally the interest graph can also be accessed by the various modules.

The interest module contains functionality for generating or updating an interest graph from user actions . The interest module receives information about the user action . Some user actions generate content. Examples include posting a status update on a social networking website posting comments for other users of a social networking website updating a current geographical location posting entries to a blog posting messages to an online message forum posting messages to an online message group e.g. GOOGLE groups etc. Other user actions interact with content such as browsing the web and clicking on Uniform Resource Locators URLs for various webpages declaring a preference for a webpage e.g. via the FACEBOOK like button etc. Other actions both generate content and interact with content. For example posting a comment to an online news article generates new content e.g. the comment and interacts with content e.g. the news article . Further the action may comprise an interaction with the content delivery system or an interaction with a system that is external to the content delivery system such as an interaction with an external website.

Content corresponding to a user action is referred to herein as user content. User content is used specifically to update a user s interest graph. This is in contrast to new content which is generally used to generate personalized content that is output to a user. However in some situations there may be overlap between user content and new content . For example new content may include the page located at www.fakewebsite.orf. The page at this address is also treated as user content if the user broadcasts a social networking message that includes a link to the page www.fakewebsite.orf.

The interest module updates the interest graphs based on the topics of the user action such that the interest graphs accurately reflects the user s current interests. For received actions the interest module may invoke the functionality of the content module to identify the topics of the user content. Alternatively if a content graph already exists for the user content the interest module retrieves the topics of the user content from the content graph for the user content. The interest module then applies the topics of the user content to the user s interest graph to update the user s interest graph . In this way the interest graph for the user accurately reflects the user s current interest level in various topics based on the user s actions . The process of building an interest graph is described in conjunction with .

To deliver personalized content for a user of the content delivery system the personalization module compares the user s interest graph to a plurality of the content graphs to determine the similarity between the user s current interests and the topics of the new content . In another embodiment the personalization module first estimates the user s future interests and then determines the similarity between the user s future interests and the topics of the content . An overall score is computed for each piece of content . The overall score is based on the similarity between the user s interests and the content as well as the popularity of the content . Pieces of content with the highest overall scores are used to generate personalized content for the user. The personalization module then outputs the personalized content such as for display to a user in a remote location. Generating personalized content is further described in conjunction with .

Maintaining an interest graph for each user enables the content delivery system to deliver personalized content to users tracked by the content delivery system . Each user s unique interest graph is used to identify and prioritize content that the user will be interested in. As a result each user can be presented with a different personalized set of content that is likely to be important to the user.

Initially a user performs an action in an online environment. As previously described in conjunction with some actions generate new content some actions interact with existing content and some actions both generate new content and interact with existing content.

The system then receives information about the user action. In one embodiment the system is capable of receiving different types of actions in various different forms. For example if the action is browsing the web the user s actions may be tracked by the website that the user is interacting with by software embedded in the website that the user is interacting with by the user s web browser or by a software tool installed on the user s computer. This action is received in the form of a clickstream which can comprise a list of websites that a user has accessed and the amount of time spent at each website. If the action is broadcasting a current geographical location the action is received in the form of positional coordinates such as a latitude and longitude. If the action is posting a message to a forum the action may be in the form of the HTML code of the forum page. If the action is posting a message via a social networking website e.g. tweet on TWITTER status update on FACEBOOK the action may be received in a specific format specified by the social networking website. Other examples are also possible but will not be listed herein.

In one embodiment the system may actively seek out and retrieve information about new user actions. For example information about the user s actions may be stored by a system that is external to the personalization content system such as a social networking system e.g. FACEBOOK or TWITTER . The external system provides an Application Programming Interface API that enables the content delivery system to request and receive information about the user actions. Alternatively or additionally the system is passive. For example the system may rely on users to provide their actions or it may receive automatic updates of user actions from an external website that the user interacts with e.g. clickstream data .

The system then determines if a content graph already exists for the content corresponding to the user action user content . If a content graph already exists for the user content the topics and confidence values for the user content can simply be determined from the existing content graph. For example if the user action involves browsing to a particular website the website may already be associated with a content graph in the content delivery system . The system can then easily retrieve the topics of the user content from this stored content graph .

If a content graph does not yet exist the user content is analyzed to identify the topics of the user content. In one embodiment the system extracts user content into a normalized format such as a textual sentences a series of text strings or metadata fields. Extracting content into a normalized format enables analysis of the content with natural language processing techniques for determining one or more topics associated with the action. The process of extraction varies depending on the type and source of the received action. The following are a few examples of how content can be extracted for different actions. If the action is posting a message to an online message forum the content is the text of the posted message which can be extracted by examining the HTML tags of the code in the forum webpage. If the action is updating a status in a social networking website the content is the text of the status update which can be extracted from data received from the social networking website. If the action is updating a geographical location of the user the content can be a set of location coordinates. To extract the coordinates into a normalized format the system converts the latitude and longitude into a textual description of the location e.g. city and state . If the action is browsing the web the system may receive a clickstream that comprises a series of URLs accessed by a user. To extract the clickstreams into a normalized format the system retrieves the webpages located at the URLs in the clickstreams and extracts relevant textual information from the webpages. For example if the webpage is written in HTML and includes an embedded news article the system extracts the text of the article while discarding the HTML tags.

The system then determines one or more topics of the content by analyzing the language of content. In one embodiment determining one or more topics comprises determining confidence scores for one or more topics. A confidence score represents the likelihood that the content matches a particular topic. In one embodiment lexical features of the content are identified and compared to stored lexical features in the ontology to determine topics and confidence scores. For example if the phrase paddled out appears with a high frequency in the content and the phrase paddled out is associated with the topic of surfing in the ontology it is likely that the content is about surfing. In another embodiment one or more methods of keyword extraction are applied to the content to determine the topics and confidence scores. For example if a video file contains the tag for dieting then the video is likely to be about the topic of dieting. In other embodiments a combination of lexical feature analysis and keyword extraction other similar methods are used to determine topics and confidence scores.

In another embodiment the system applies the user s own interest graph to the determined topics to help better interpret the meaning of the user content. In other words the user s interest graph is part of a feedback loop in which the user s current interests provide additional context in interpreting the meaning of the user s actions. For example an action may be an entry in the user s blog stating I like Boston . Boston can refer to a number of different topics such as the city of Boston or the band named Boston. Without additional context it can be difficult to identify the best topic match for this sentence. To help identify the right topic the system obtains topics from the user s interest graph uses the ontology to identify relationships between topics in the user s interest graph and the potential topics of the user action and modifies the confidence level for the potential topics based on the strength of the identified relationship. Referring again to the prior example if the user s interest graph indicates that the user has a strong attachment to guitars and rock music from the 1980 s it increases the likelihood that the sentence refers to the band named Boston. This is because guitars rock music from the 1980 s and the band Boston are likely related to each other either directly or indirectly in the ontology. However if the user s interest graph indicates that the user has a strong attachment to the Boston Red Sox and Boston College it increases the likelihood that the sentence refers to the city of Boston.

At this point a user action is associated with one or more topics and or confidence scores. Next the system updates the user s interest graph to reflect the user s interests based on the topics associated with the user action. If the user action is associated with a topic the user s attachment to that topic in the interest graph is modified i.e. increased or decreased . Some actions are positive actions that cause an increase in a user s attachment to a topic. For example posting a comment on a surfing forum will cause an increase in an attachment to surfing. Other actions are negative actions that cause a decrease in a user s attachment to a topic. For example if a clickstream indicates that a user only spent 2 seconds on a surfing webpage before spending 10 minutes on a fishing webpage the user s attachment to surfing is decreased and the attachment to fishing is increased.

In one embodiment the amount of the modification to an attachment level is based on the confidence score associated with the topic. For example if the confidence score for a topic associated with the action is high the user s attachment to that topic is modified by a large amount. If the confidence score for a topic associated with the action is low the user s attachment to that topic is modified by a lesser amount. In one embodiment the amount of modification in a user s attachment to a topic is based on the type of the action. Some actions cause a large change in the attachment level whereas other actions cause a smaller change in the attachment level. An action type may refer to a category of action such as whether an action generates new content. For example an action generating new content may result in a larger increase in attachment than actions that interact with content but do not generate content. An action type may also refer to specific actions. For example the action of posting a message to an online message forum may results in a large increase in attachment while a updating a status on a social networking website may result in a smaller increase. Modifying a user s attachment based on the type of the action allows for more accurate determination of a user s interests because certain action types are better indicators of a user s true interests than other action types.

In a further embodiment the system may also decrease a user s attachment level to topics due to the passage of time. This allows topics in a user s interest graph to decay over time indicating that the user is becoming less interested in these topics.

The system thus maintains an interest graph for each user tracked by the content delivery system . The interest graph is updated based on the user s own actions to ensure that the interest graph is an accurate and up to date representation of the user s own interests. Maintaining the interest graph enables the content delivery system to deliver personalized content to the user as discussed below in conjunction with .

Initially the system obtains new content . Content includes any type of electronic content and can be obtained in any of a number of ways. In one embodiment the system includes a web crawler that actively seeks out and obtains content from websites on the Internet. In another embodiment the system obtains content through an API of the content delivery system that allows third party websites to provide content to the system. For example a news website may provide its news articles to the system so that the news articles can be used to generate a personalized newsfeed. In a further embodiment the content module obtains URL links to content that are posted by users of a social networking system e.g. TWITTER or FACEBOOK . The system then accesses the URL link and obtains the content located at the URL link. In yet another embodiment the system obtains a Really Simple Syndication RSS feed that includes content published by third party websites.

In one embodiment obtaining content comprises normalizing the content to extract relevant information from the content. Normalizing content helps to remove extraneous information that is not useful in identifying the real topic of the content. For example the system may receive a HTML webpage that contains a news article in the middle of the page advertisements on the right hand side of the page and disclaimer links on the bottom of the page. The only relevant information in this webpage is the text of the news article itself. To normalize this content the system extracts the text of the news article while discarding non relevant data such as HTML tags the advertisements and disclaimer links. Extracting content in this manner thus enables the system to properly analyze the content using language processing techniques.

The system determines one or more topics associated with the content by analyzing the language of the content. In one embodiment determining one or more topics comprises computing confidence scores for one or more topics. A confidence score represents the likelihood that the content matches a particular topic. In one embodiment lexical features of the content are identified and compared to stored lexical features in the ontology to determine topics and confidence scores. In another embodiment one or more methods of keyword extraction are applied to the content to determine the topics and confidence scores. In other embodiments a combination of lexical feature analysis and keyword extractor other similar methods are used to determine confidence scores for various topics.

The system determines the popularity of the content. In one embodiment determining the popularity comprises computing a virality score for the content. For example the virality score can be computed from social network metrics such as number of times the content has been shared with others e.g. tweets and re tweets on TWITTER or shared on FACEBOOK number of times that persons have explicitly expressed an interest in the content e.g liking the content in FACEBOOK number of times that persons have browsed to the content etc. These metrics can be retrieved from social networking systems using Application Programming Interfaces API provided by the social networking systems. As another example the virality score can be computed from information provided by a website that hosts the content such as a counter on a website indicating the number of times the website has been accessed. One or more of these metrics may be combined together in computing the virality score.

In one embodiment the virality score decays over time. The virality score thus becomes a measure of the current popularity of the content as opposed to the overall popularity of the content. In one embodiment the virality score can be decayed for example by periodically computing the virality score and assigning a higher weight to more recent activity associated with the content while assigning a lower weight to activity that occurred in the past. In another embodiment the virality score can be calculated based on the activity associated with the content within a specific time period e.g. the last hour day week .

At this point in the process the content is associated with a set of topics confidence scores for the topics and a virality score. This information is stored in association with the content to generate a content graph. If more content is available steps are repeated to generate a plurality of content graphs. This results in a rich set of content graphs that represent the popularity and topics of various pieces of content. The content graphs may also be updated periodically as the popularity of the content changes.

Generally speaking the system generates personalized content for a user of the content delivery system that is likely to be relevant to the user s interests. Initially the system retrieves the interest graph for a particular user of the content delivery system . In one embodiment the user s interest graph is retrieved in response to a user identifier received by the system or in response to a request to generate personalized content for a particular user.

As previously described the interest graph represents the user s interests through the user s attachment level to one or more topics in the user s interest graph. In one embodiment the interest graph includes information about the user s current attachment to various topics as well as the user s historical attachment levels. In one embodiment the system also estimates the user s future interests from the user s interest graph and the interest graphs of other users. Estimating the user s future interests allows delivery of content based not only on the user s current interests but also on the user s future interests. Estimating a user s future interests is further described by reference to .

The system also retrieves a content graph from the plurality of content graphs generated for content . As previously described each content graph includes information about the topics associated with a piece of content . Each content graph also includes a virality score that represents the popularity of the piece of content.

The system determines the level of similarity between the user s interests i.e. current or future interests and the content associated with the content graph. In one embodiment system compares the user s interest graph to the content graph and computes an interest score that represents the similarity between the user s interests and the content. For example the interest score may be computed with the following formula 

In another embodiment determining the similarity between a user s interests and the content comprises identifying a broader topic that links the topics in the content graph together. For example the content graph may include the topics surfing and wakeboarding . Both topics may be sub topics of the broader topic of extreme sports as determined by examining the relationship between the topics in the ontology . The broader topic is compared to the topics in the user s interest graph or a broader topic determined from the topics in the interest graph to compute an interest score that represents the similarity between the user s interests and the content.

Using the interest score and virality score the system subsequently computes an overall score for the content. For example the overall score may be equal to a multiple of a weighted interest score and a weighted virality score. The overall score represents the relevancy of the content based on the user s interests as well as the popularity of the content. In other embodiments the overall score is also affected by other factors such as the source of the content e.g. the website that the content is hosted on the time since the content was first published how a user s friends on social networks have interacted with the content via liking or sharing the content etc. If more content is available steps are repeated. Repeating steps generates a plurality of overall scores for a plurality of content.

The system then uses the overall scores to generate personalized content for the user. In one embodiment generating personalized content comprises generating a recommendation for content. For example the personalized content may be a list of hyperlinks to content where the hyperlinks are ordered from highest overall score to lowest overall score.

In one embodiment generating personalized content comprises generating personalized content that actually includes the content itself. For example the personalized content may include the text of several news articles that have high overall scores. In one embodiment pieces of content with overall scores that exceed a threshold are used to generate personalized content for the user. The threshold may be an absolute threshold e.g. above some pre defined score or a relative threshold e.g. above the 90percentile . The personalized content is then output for presentation to the user.

In one specific embodiment the system generates a personalized newsfeed for a user. The system receives a plurality of news articles through an RSS feed such as an article about sports an article about music an article about politics and an article about the weather. The system determines one or more topics for each of the articles as well as the current popularity of each article. The system compares a user s interest graph against the articles to identify the articles that the user is most interested in. Based on the user s interest in the articles and the popularity of the articles the most important articles are used to generate a personalized newsfeed that is output to the user.

The disclosed embodiments thus provide a method for determining the content that is most relevant to a user of the content delivery system . By leveraging the user s own interests and the popularity of the content the system can accurately determine and generate content that is personalized to the interests of each individual user.

In one embodiment the system estimates a user s future interests from a user s interest graph and the interest graphs of other users which can be used to generate personalized content for the user. As discussed previously the personalized content system stores interest graphs for a plurality of users. In one embodiment each interest graph represents a user s current and historical interests through attachment levels to one or more topics. A user s attachment to different topics is not static and will change over time as the user performs actions that update the user s interest graph. Trends in attachment levels and relationships between topics are captured in the plurality of interest graphs which can be used to predict a user s future interests. Future interests generally refers to either interests in new topics that the user currently has no attachment to or changing interests in existing topics that the user already has an attachment to.

As shown in examination of the interest graph provides information of how a user s interest in a topic changes over time and also allows identification of different topics in which a user may become interested. For example the interest graph shown in shows how the user s interest in interest N increases over time so that the user is eventually more interest in interest N than in interest A. This information allows a system to provide the user with content related to interest N at an earlier point in time by identifying the user s changing interest level.

By accessing interest graphs associated with other users or historical data about Steve s interests inferences about Steve s future interests are made. For example by accessing historical data from other users having similar interests inferences of Steve s interests at a later time interval are made. In the example of historical data from other users and data from Steve s interest graph is used to predict that at time tSteve has an attachment level of 200 to Archery an attachment level of 12 to Cats and an attachment level of 15 to Vacuums. Based on this prediction Steve is exposed to content relating to Vacuums prior to time t. Hence the interest graph associated with a user and interest graphs associated with additional users allow prediction of the user s interests at a future time enabling customization of content presented to the user that reflects the user s predicted future interests. This allows a user to receive earlier exposure to topics that the user is likely to be interested in during a future time interval. Further based on this prediction Steve s exposure to contents associated with Cats can be reduced. This allows a user to receive reduced exposure to a topic when it is expected that the interest in the topic will wane.

As explained above by reference to in a prior step the system retrieves an interest graph associated with a user. The interest graph may include data of the user s attachment level to topics in the interest graph both at the current time and in the past.

The velocity of attachment values associated with one or more topics is determined from the interest graph. The velocity indicates how the attachment level associated with a topic changes over time. For example the attachment level associated with a topic at an earlier time t is determined and an attachment level associated with the topic at the current time t is determined and the velocity of the attachment value is determined by calculating the difference between the attachment level at tand the attachment level at tthen dividing the difference by the time difference from tto t so that attachment velocity attachment at t attachment at t t t . By determining the velocity of an attachment value a determination of whether a user is becoming more interested or less interested in a topic is possible. For example a positive velocity indicates that the user is becoming more interested in a topic while a negative velocity indicates that the user is becoming less interested in a topic. Additionally determining the velocity of an attachment value indicates how rapidly a user s interest in a topic is changing over time.

In one embodiment the acceleration of attachment values associated with one or more topics is determined from the interest graph. The acceleration indicates how rapidly a user s interest in a topic is changing by describing the rate of change of the velocity of an attachment value. Determining the acceleration of an attachment value provides additional data about how a user s interest in a topic changes over time providing additional information for determining the user s likely future interests.

To estimate a user s future interest in new topics a subsequent event map is applied to the attachment value velocity and acceleration obtained from the interest graph. The subsequent event map includes historical data describing changes in attachment to the topic or related topic obtained from other users. By aggregating how the attachment levels of different users change over time the subsequent event map enables estimation of a future attachment level to a new topic based on historical data acquired from additional users. For example the attachment level and attachment velocity of a user at a first time interval indicates that the user has an increasing attachment to a first topic. Applying the subsequent event map indicates that other users with a similar attachment level that is increasing also have a have a high attachment to a second topic at a second time interval. Hence prior to the second time interval content such as news articles advertisements links to data sources or informational messages associated with the second topic is presented to the user allowing a user to receive information about the second topic at an earlier time.

To determine the subsequent event map interest graphs associated with a plurality of additional users are retrieved . For example interest graphs associated with other users are retrieved to obtain information about the behavior of other users over time.

Relationships between different topics are determined from the retrieved interest graphs. In one embodiment intersection points between topics are identified from the interest graphs and topics that intersect are determined to be related. In another embodiment topics having attachment levels that change relative to each other are identified as related such as interest in a first topic increasing while interest in a second topic also increases. For example the interest graphs can be analyzed statistically as a group to determine that an increasing interest in a first topic is typically followed by a new and increasing interest in a second topic. In an embodiment relationships between topics are determined by generating pairs of topics from each retrieved interest graph and retrieving attachment values for the pairs of topics from the retrieved interest graphs.

Based on the relationship between topics from the retrieved interest graphs attachment values from the retrieved interest maps are combined to generate a master subsequent event map. The master subsequent event map aggregates attachment data from the retrieved interest graphs so that changes in attachment levels from multiple users are represented by the master subsequent event map. Hence the master subsequent event map quantifies the relationship between multiple topics over time based on changes in attachment levels of multiple users. The user s attachment level velocity and acceleration to different topics are then compared against the master subsequent event map to identify future topics of interest. For example the master subsequent event map may indicate that users with an increasing interest in cats soon have a new and increasing interest in vacuums. Thus if the user has an increasing interest in cats vacuums are identified as a future topic of interest.

Referring back to in one embodiment to estimate a user s future interest in a topic that the user already has an attachment to a subsequent event map is not applied . Instead a similar but slightly different process is followed. Interest graphs for a plurality of users are retrieved. The user s historical attachment to the topic is then compared to the same topic in the plurality of interest graphs to identify a similar pattern of activity. From the pattern of activity in these matching interest graphs a future level of attachment is determined for the topic. For example a user s interest graph may indicate that the user s interest in surfing was increasing at t decelerated at time tand leveled off at time t. This topic and pattern of activity is located in other interest graphs. Other interest graphs show that users having this same pattern of attachment for surfing will typically have a continued interest in surfing at time t. This is an indication that the user has picked up a new hobby that the user is likely to continue. Thus it is estimated that at a future time the user s interest in surfing will be remain unchanged. As another example a user s interest graph may indicate that the user s interest in batteries surged from zero at time tto a high level at time t. Other interest graphs show that a surging interest in car batteries is typically followed by a quick and steep decline in interest at time t. This is an indication that users who need car batteries typically lose their interest once they get the car battery. Thus by analyzing the plurality of interest graphs it is determined that at a future time the user s interest in batteries will disappear.

Maintaining an interest graph associated with a user allows monitoring of the user s interest in various topics over time. Data describing changes in a user s interests allow modification of content presented to a user to reflect topics in which the user is currently interested. Additionally maintaining interest graphs for multiple users provides historical data of how the interest of different users in topics changes over time allowing prediction of future user interests i.e. new topics or changing attachment levels in existing topics . Extracting data from an individual user s interest graph and comparing the extracted data to data aggregated from multiple users interest graphs allows prediction of the individual user s future interests based on changes in the interest of other users over time. This interest prediction allows presentation of content in which a user is interested at an earlier time.

Throughout this specification plural instances may implement components operations or structures described as a single instance. Although individual operations of one or more methods are illustrated and described as separate operations one or more of the individual operations may be performed concurrently and nothing requires that the operations be performed in the order illustrated. Structures and functionality presented as separate components in example configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. Similarly structures and functionality presented as a single component may be implemented as separate components. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements fall within the scope of the subject matter herein.

Certain embodiments are described herein as including logic or a number of components modules or mechanisms for example the processes described with respect to . Modules may constitute either software modules e.g. code embodied on a machine readable medium or in a transmission signal or hardware modules. A hardware module is tangible unit capable of performing certain operations and may be configured or arranged in a certain manner. In example embodiments one or more computer systems e.g. a standalone client or server computer system or one or more hardware modules of a computer system e.g. a processor or a group of processors may be configured by software e.g. an application or application portion as a hardware module that operates to perform certain operations as described herein.

In various embodiments a hardware module may be implemented mechanically or electronically. For example a hardware module may comprise dedicated circuitry or logic that is permanently configured e.g. as a special purpose processor such as a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific integrated circuit ASIC to perform certain operations. A hardware module may also comprise programmable logic or circuitry e.g. as encompassed within a general purpose processor or other programmable processor that is temporarily configured by software to perform certain operations. It will be appreciated that the decision to implement a hardware module mechanically in dedicated and permanently configured circuitry or in temporarily configured circuitry e.g. configured by software may be driven by cost and time considerations.

Accordingly the term hardware module should be understood to encompass a tangible entity be that an entity that is physically constructed permanently configured e.g. hardwired or temporarily configured e.g. programmed to operate in a certain manner or to perform certain operations described herein. As used herein hardware implemented module refers to a hardware module. Considering embodiments in which hardware modules are temporarily configured e.g. programmed each of the hardware modules need not be configured or instantiated at any one instance in time. For example where the hardware modules comprise a general purpose processor configured using software the general purpose processor may be configured as respective different hardware modules at different times. Software may accordingly configure a processor for example to constitute a particular hardware module at one instance of time and to constitute a different hardware module at a different instance of time.

Hardware modules can provide information to and receive information from other hardware modules. Accordingly the described hardware modules may be regarded as being communicatively coupled. Where multiple of such hardware modules exist contemporaneously communications may be achieved through signal transmission e.g. over appropriate circuits and buses that connect the hardware modules. In embodiments in which multiple hardware modules are configured or instantiated at different times communications between such hardware modules may be achieved for example through the storage and retrieval of information in memory structures to which the multiple hardware modules have access. For example one hardware module may perform an operation and store the output of that operation in a memory device to which it is communicatively coupled. A further hardware module may then at a later time access the memory device to retrieve and process the stored output. Hardware modules may also initiate communications with input or output devices and can operate on a resource e.g. a collection of information .

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. The modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or processors or processor implemented hardware modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or as a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. application program interfaces APIs . 

The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be located in a single geographic location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or a server farm . In other example embodiments the one or more processors or processor implemented modules may be distributed across a number of geographic locations.

Some portions of this specification are presented in terms of algorithms or symbolic representations of operations on data stored as bits or binary digital signals within a machine memory e.g. a computer memory for example the processes described with respect to . These algorithms or symbolic representations are examples of techniques used by those of ordinary skill in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. As used herein an algorithm is a self consistent sequence of operations or similar processing leading to a desired result. In this context algorithms and operations involve physical manipulation of physical quantities. Typically but not necessarily such quantities may take the form of electrical magnetic or optical signals capable of being stored accessed transferred combined compared or otherwise manipulated by a machine. It is convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to such signals using words such as data content bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers numerals or the like. These words however are merely convenient labels and are to be associated with appropriate physical quantities.

Unless specifically stated otherwise discussions herein using words such as processing computing calculating determining presenting displaying or the like may refer to actions or processes of a machine e.g. a computer that manipulates or transforms data represented as physical e.g. electronic magnetic or optical quantities within one or more memories e.g. volatile memory non volatile memory or a combination thereof registers or other machine components that receive store transmit or display information.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for generating personalized content. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

